on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to be honest: you were not my group’s candidate in 2004. we had proposed bronisław geremek, one of the fathers and architects of today’s europe of 27 member states and a symbol of europe’s reunification. but you have been fair and gentlemanly in your chairmanship of this house: you have treated its members with courtesy and its business with patience and serenity. as a newcomer to this parliament, it is not easy to be asked to lead it, and you rose to the challenge. given the words of mr schulz, i wonder whether he fears for his own position should you return to his benches! (laughter) mr president, particularly i appreciate your commitment to engaging with our citizens. you have invited many of us to join you in your work as an active european in your home country. you have also shown commendable commitment and almost endless energy in promoting the european union across the continent, and your mission in particular to europe’s young people has marked your work. however, it has not been limited to the european union: you have been an active president of this house beyond our shores in your promotion of the euromed parliamentary assembly, in your facilitation of the establishment of a euro-latin american parliamentary assembly and beyond. nonetheless, i suspect that your greatest success during your presidency has been overseeing the successful integration of bulgarian and romanian observers into this house. the presence today of new members signals the completion of the fifth enlargement of our union. the sight here today of two new commissioners, leonard orban and meglena kuneva – at work since 1 january – warms our hearts, and the presence in the council of ministers of two new countries strengthens our union as it prepares for an important birthday. mr president, your predecessor, pat cox, put much effort into modernising our house. while recognising the reforms you have promoted, my group would have liked to have seen more reforms in the working of this house. we know that you tried, only to find yourself bound, like gulliver, at every turn by the bureaucracies of two political groups. their presence – the stubborn presence of the centuries – hangs heavy on our work. why should the european parliament not meet formally every week to receive a report from the commission? why should every member not have a screen on their desks to bring us into the 21st century? why should our democracy be governed by rules laid down by a 19th century belgian mathematician called d’hondt? these rules produce a result that is worked out on a calculator rather than a ballot paper, influenced more by the size and influence of nations than the european commitment and competence of the candidates. it is something we must review if we are to reassert our democratic credibility in this, the 50th year since the signing of the treaty of rome, for if we fail to keep up with the times, public disillusion will grow. the appeal of the abhorrent forces of knee-jerk nationalism on the far right may widen. therefore, i trust, mr president, that your successors will engage with all members of this house in a debate about the organisation of parliament’s affairs in order to preserve and develop the values which you have upheld so courageously in your term as president. in closing, let me congratulate mr daul on his maiden speech as leader of his group. we will no doubt hear far more from him in the years to come. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i offer you my warmest congratulations on your election as president of our house. it is the pinnacle of a remarkable parliamentary career, stretching from the first direct elections to the european parliament. you know that my group opposed the process by which you and the socialists carved up the house between you during this mandate. nonetheless, i believe that the majority in my group voted for you, recognising your experience, admiring your political work in this house and convinced of your capacity to be an objective and fair president. in the five years that i have had the honour to lead my group, i have appreciated the cooperative relations that we have enjoyed. i know the same can be said for my predecessor, pat cox, who sends through me his warmest regards to you on this day. but as you know, in politics a halo is only 12 inches from being a noose and our reputations depend on our ability to meet ever-new challenges. i hope you will listen to the swelling chorus in this house in favour of reform. from having been ahead of our citizens in advancing the cause of european integration, our member state leaders are now in danger of lagging behind. the opportunity falls on this house to show a lead in building the european union we need in order to meet the challenges we face. that will require a house designed and organised so as to be capable of meeting that challenge. i hope that we can work together to create that house with you during your term of office as president, for which i wish you every success. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – president-in-office, liberals and democrats wish you every success for the german presidency of the european union. you have presented to us a bold programme entitled ‘europe succeeding together’, firmly in the cooperative tradition of our most powerful member state. liberals and democrats welcome the commitment in the opening paragraph, where you say that european integration is the foundation of our common future and that its dynamic development must continue. i commend to you, chancellor, the words of the poet goethe when he wrote: „bleibe nicht am boden haften, frisch gewagt und frisch hinaus.“ progress will be built on the pillars of a strong economy. i am disappointed that the word ‘social’ appears in this programme almost twice as many times as the word ‘competitive’. the word ‘liberal’ appears only once. i fear this document owes more to the spd side of your coalition than to others. however, even the spd in germany is lagging behind the new socialist consensus at their conference in oporto. it is no good trying to protect energy giants like rwe or edf in the hope that they can stand up against gazprom. we need free markets and energy security and there is no contradiction between the two. (applause)we welcome your plans for technology and talent, but you will not do it if you cut the budgets that the european union has for research, innovation and education. (applause)we will work closely with you on justice and home affairs. you talk of intensive police and judicial cooperation between member states, but we are deeply concerned and we will work to change your plans, which focus too much on the repressive aspects of policy and not enough on freedom. you said fine words in your speech about tolerance. however, data collection is mentioned in your document, but there is nothing about data protection: there is not a single mention of it in the section on civil rights. (applause)in your document we find border guards, but on development aid policy to relieve the misery that pushes people towards our shores, there are just a few platitudes on the final page. we may be in danger of creating in europe what dieter lattmann once described in your own country as eine lieblose republik. if i may cite one sentence from your document, it is this: ‘if a common european area of justice cannot be achieved in the field of civil and criminal law, the european single market will remain incomplete’. i welcome the fact that you see justice and home affairs as part of the european single market, but then why do you stubbornly resist demands from citizens to make policy in the same way as you make policy for the single market: qualified majority voting in the council and codecision? (applause)you speak of the role of national parliaments, but there is nothing about the role of the european parliament. you seek to adopt the prüm treaty on data-sharing outside community competence. it is no surprise that a former president of your country, roman herzog, said that germany is no longer a parliamentary democracy because so many of its laws come from brussels. but we need at least to make europe a proper parliamentary democracy. in common foreign and security policy too – another area that should come under the first pillar – the eu is incapable. we watch the disintegration of iraq: last year alone there were 34 000 civilian deaths; people saying that today is better than tomorrow. that is the most urgent geopolitical issue of our time. as you say in your programme, we need a more effective and a more coherent foreign policy. we welcome what you say about the environment. the green party in your country may have biodegraded, but it clearly had some impact. we support, in particular, your plans for environmental technology and the leipzig charter on sustainable european cities. we hope you will work towards a european union budget in 2008 that gives us the means to act. chancellor, on the constitution i wish you success. many in my group are not optimistic that the conditions exist in london, paris or warsaw for a move forward. please work on bringing the eu closer to its citizens, on better regulation and on greater transparency. build the basis of support for the constitution, but remember what theodor fontane said:„gute verdauung ist besser als eine million, aber dicke haut ist noch besser als gute verdauung.“ i wish you every success in your presidency. we will judge you on your achievements at the end of your term. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, we have witnessed the beginning of a dishonest and downright dangerous german presidency. to revive the eu constitution, but to do it in such a way that you want to avoid referendums in the key member states, is not just an insult to the french and the dutch, it is actually a classic example of the new phenomenon that i see all around me this morning: eu nationalism, where you never ever take no for an answer! perhaps there is one small ray of hope from your speech this morning, mrs merkel, because you talked at great length about freedom. i agree with you, it is important. so i ask you: will you please allow the peoples of europe to have the freedom to determine their own futures in free and fair referendums, and not to have this constitution foisted upon them? (applause from the ind/dem group)if you fail to do this, if you go on ignoring the peoples of europe, you will breed and create the very intolerance, extremism and racism that you say yourself you wish to stop. for goodness’ sake, let the people speak! (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, madam chancellor, as leader of the british conservative delegation and on behalf of the european democrats part of the ppe-de group, i would like to add my own warm welcome to you to the european parliament today. i begin by congratulating you on your early meeting with the american president. for too long there has been an apparent schism between europe and the united states and it is time to move things in the right direction. you are laying some solid groundwork for future cooperation. i also welcome some of the key measures outlined in your presidency work programme – the emphasis on economic reform, the need for less regulation and your emphasis on the fight to combat climate change which should concern us all far more from now on. as a british conservative, needless to say i do not welcome the emphasis on resurrecting the european constitution. this could reinforce a sense of alienation within europe which would be unhelpful and would complicate matters at a time when we need to make some progress. i think the remarks of the former president, mr herzog, are very important and he has deep concerns at the possibility of centralising forces in the eu. i believe that there is much the nations of europe can do working together, and as the leader of my party has said, it is because we want to see a future for the eu and believe in a strong europe that we want to see it confront its failings. i agree with that. aber sie haben recht: freiheit, vielfalt, toleranz und zusammenarbeit – das ist der weg nach vorne. viel glück!
a uachtaráin, a sheansailéir, tá lúcháir orm go n-aithnítear anois mo theanga féin, an ghaeilge, mar theanga oifigiúil agus oibre den aontas. leanfaidh muid linn in gue/ngl brú a chur ar mhaithe le comhionannas iomlán do chainteoirí gaeilge i bparlaimint na heorpa. ó thaobh uachtaránacht na gearmáine de, tá mé buartha go bhfuil sé de rún agaibh béim chomh mór sin a chur ar iarrachtaí chun bunreacht na heorpa a athbheochan, ag léiriú neamhaird i dtaca le toil thoghthóirí na fraince agus na hollainne. b'fhearr i bhfad don uachtaránacht díriú ar dhul i ngleic le bochtanas, le neamhionannas agus le ciníochas; ag daingniú eoraip shóisialta; ag cosaint saoirsí sibhialta, cearta daonna agus trádáil chóir, agus ag dul i ngleic le éagothromaíochtaí domhanda. spreagfainn an uachtaránacht nua chun éisteacht le guthanna na saoránach fud fad na mballstát agus freagairt dá réir sin le clár oibre atá níos dírithe ar dhaoine agus a bhfuil ceartas sóisialta agus eacnamaíoch agus comhionannas polaitiúil agus cultúrtha ag a chroí.
mr president, chancellor, for your presidency to succeed in resolving the crisis, you will have to demand and expect the faithful support of all the member states. do you agree that the recent spanish-luxembourg proposal to corral 18 member states into a separate process will not only accentuate the division between the two camps, but also brutally expose the wide division among the 18 themselves? will you please discourage such an initiative?
madam president, i would like to add my congratulations on your election. today we are talking about a tragedy in three parts. there are five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor, innocent of wrongdoing, who have been in a libyan jail for some eight years now, much of that time under sentence of death. this frightening situation is an enormous tragedy for them and for their families. there are hundreds of libyan children who have contracted hiv, probably through faults in the libyan blood transfusion system. we know from impeccable international expert analysis that the hiv strain afflicting the children was already present and spreading locally in benghazi years before any foreign medics arrived in libya. it should also be noted that there have been many other cases of hiv and bse transmission through infected blood transfusions in the united states, in the united kingdom, in france and in other countries. none of this attaches any culpability to the medical staff giving transfusions. it is an enormous tragedy for the children and their families and, in response to this, the european commission launched its benghazi aids action plan in november 2004. by march of last year, eur 2 million had been allocated to this programme, and more is being done through ngos. the third element of the tragedy is the impact that this issue is having on the relationship between libya and the international community. over the past five years, libya has begun to come in from the cold since admitting responsibility for certain past terrorist acts and giving up its wmd programme. the thawing of relations is of enormous potential benefit to libya, with its need for access to western technology and assistance in order to upgrade its oil industry and to diversify its economy, and we welcome close relations with libya. there is, then, so much at stake for so many people over an issue that could be resolved very quickly. once again, i implore president gaddafi and the supreme court in libya to exercise their powers and bring about the speedy release of the imprisoned medical personnel. i feel sure that the status of president gaddafi is such that he would not for a moment be disturbed by any trivial accusation of loss of face. i feel sure, also, that he would not wish to undo all the progress of recent years by giving in to those who seek to use the nurses as some sort of political hostages. i know that commissioner ferrero-waldner has personally been very involved and committed on behalf of the nurses and that she has visited them and had discussions with president gaddafi. from my recent conversations with her, i know that she, too, shares our disappointment over lack of progress and hopes for early resolution of this matter. i acknowledge the need for some sensitivity and discretion. on monday, the general affairs and external relations council will meet. we hope that the parallel processes of diplomatic dialogue and action by the supreme court in libya will produce rapid results. at the same time, i ask that the council and the commission draw up measures that they will take, a range of positive and attractive steps to assist libya if there is the desired outcome, and a number of other measures if there is no progress. let this issue not become yet another example of the eu making statements but failing to deliver a useful outcome. both the bulgarian and libyan people deserve better. (applause)
madam president, i too wish to congratulate you on your election. commissioner barrot called for discretion, and none of us want to do or say anything to prejudice the prospects of a just solution to this terrible situation affecting our fellow eu citizens and the palestinian doctor. however, the commissioner rightly also called for firmness. the search for a solution must not be affected by the development of wider interests between libya and the eu, such as the close cooperation that has grown, in particular between italy and libya, regarding the return of illegal immigrants, of whom libya is now hosting over one million. the european parliament has expressed great concern about the lack of access of many of these people, whether in the eu or libya, to a refugee determination process. whatever our interests in managing or preventing that flow – and, unfortunately, the lack of a truly comprehensive eu migration policy hinders proper management – we must not let those interests prevail over the demands of justice and human rights. plans for an eu-libya action plan on migration are quite rightly, if unhelpfully, frozen because of the benghazi case, and they must not be unfrozen until there is a proper solution. (applause)
mr president, most of the content of the report by mr romeva i rueda, perhaps surprisingly, is uncontroversial. it is clear, however, that western democracies are very good at self-flagellation. we have heard much of this in some of the speeches this afternoon and in some of the rather selective examples given. so often we erect legal and other structures to extend the regulatory powers of the eu and to constrain ourselves, when if we look at terrorist and insurgent movements around the world, at the people who are really causing misery and suffering, we find that their arms and equipment do not come from the democracies but from other countries. it is those countries that should be the centre of our attentions. we therefore need international action and a treaty applicable to the real culprits. otherwise we are in danger of sending the wrong message both to our own people and to those who supply the arms that fuel conflicts. faced with these circumstances, our efforts should be concentrated on a well-targeted united nations international arms trade treaty. indeed, substantial work at the un has already begun. on 6 december 2006, the un general assembly adopted a resolution charging the secretary-general to take this initiative forward. ban ki-moon will canvass the views of member states in 2007 and a group of governmental experts will meet in 2008, after which the secretary-general will present a report to the 63rd session of the un. the european union should focus on promoting this course of action within the united nations. little good will come of an eu arms export regime that constrains european nations while leaving countries such as china free to sell weapons to whomever they deem fit. china is the most profligate supplier of weapons to odious regimes and other groups throughout asia and africa, including sudan, burma, zimbabwe and other countries, and would certainly welcome tougher restrictions on arms exports that affect only eu member states. while a code of conduct is valuable, let us not misunderstand or diminish the importance of defence industries for national security and our economies, particularly in countries such as the uk, france, germany, sweden and some others. the uk’s defence industries play a vital economic and strategic role and should not be subject to inappropriate legal restrictions that will not apply in many other countries. the problem is not with our defence industries but with less scrupulous foreign governments and companies. the uk, with one of the world’s largest defence industries, has a duty to support the un in this endeavour and has met this obligation. the british defence manufacturers’ association has stated that it welcomes the principle behind the international arms trade treaty. the uk was one of the co-authors of the un general assembly resolution of 6 december 2006. if we are to achieve an international treaty that genuinely addresses the grave problems presented by certain arms exporters, then a un treaty, encompassing china amongst others, is indispensable.
mr president, the committee on foreign affairs states that it ‘finds it unacceptable that no steps have been taken to adopt the code as a common position’. a common position would not be binding as such, but would define the general guidelines that member states must conform to. the rapporteur describes the common position as ‘legally more binding on eu member states than a code of conduct’. the report calls on the presidency and member state governments to explain why the code has not been adopted as a common position. regret is expressed at the absence of a common position, with the justification that this has weakened both the further development of eu export controls and prevented moves towards further general harmonisation of eu export controls. the report states that it is ‘convinced that the development and implementation of a harmonised european arms export control policy would contribute decisively to a deepening of the union’s common foreign and security policy’. there we have it put plainly enough. the arguments contained in the report are devices to further the common foreign and security policy and the ubiquitous and relentless need for all things to be harmonised. the united kingdom has a different story and background to the other countries of europe. we have long and historic ties with our allies in the commonwealth and throughout the world. britain has a so far unbroken record, and a far more successful record, of defending her vital national interests than any other country represented here. therefore, the uk independence party rejects this report because it must be up to britain to decide its own arms export policy in the light of her own national and international and foreign policy and defence interests and in accordance with any legitimate international agreements she has entered into.
mr president, i wish to support the warning in this report that irresponsible arms sales can lead to corruption. according to the oecd anti-bribery convention, to which the uk is a party, inquiries into suspicions should not be influenced by considerations of national economic interest, the potential effect upon relations with another state or the identity of the persons involved. criterion 1 of the eu arms code obliges member states to respect their international obligations and criterion 2 to respect human rights. i would therefore love to have been a fly on the wall when british officials yesterday attempted to explain to the oecd’s working party on bribery why the government instructed the dropping of an investigation by our serious fraud office into alleged corrupt payments to secure arms sales by british aerospace to saudi arabia. were they able to dispel the widespread assumption that this was because the saudis threatened to cancel the contract and give future contracts to france, in other words, to protect jobs? the government’s line was that it was necessary in the interests of national security, for fear that saudi arabia would break intelligence links. unfortunately for the government’s alibi, the head of mi6 has refused to sign up to that thesis. the blair government promised to be whiter than white. instead it has set a shameful example for new and aspiring member states on how corruption and arms sales are inseparable twins. the sooner the uk switches some of its manufacturing capacity out of arms, the better.
mr president, i would like to begin by welcoming the fact that work has started this year on the international arms trade treaty, with the approval by 153 member states of the united nations. i would like to acknowledge the leading work undertaken by the british labour government in getting that agreed within the united nations and, indeed, today’s late conversion by the british conservative spokesperson in favour. the european union and the member states need to maintain a strong and proactive approach in our support for the proposed treaty, particularly during the upcoming bilateral consultations with the new un secretary-general, and we need to maintain pressure on the united states government to review its obligations to the treaty. we need a strong, effective and legally binding treaty covering the trade in all conventional arms and setting clear standards for when an arms transfer should not take place, including respect for human rights, and we should have an effective monitoring and enforcement mechanism. on other matters in this report, once again i want to pay tribute to my good friend and colleague, mr romeva i rueda, for his excellent work, which has my strong support. since we had this annual debate last year, 45 million more people in our world have been affected by the devastating consequences of war and, as we are only too well aware, it is not just a matter of the horrific death toll. according to the un food and agricultural organisation, violent conflict is the single greatest cause of hunger in the world today. this year, mr president, you and i have been in the democratic republic of the congo on behalf of this parliament, where research this year has shown, despite the un arms embargo, ammunition and weapons in rebel hands in eastern drc from greece, a member state of the european union, and from serbia, a state with which we are negotiating an association agreement. i say to the british conservative spokesperson who has said in this debate that this is self-flagellation against european nations, that, when someone is killed by an illegally exported arm, quite simply i call it murder. there is no excusing them saying that because china does it too, that is acceptable. europe has a duty to take a moral lead. we should get this common position agreed and, by next year, name and shame those states that have refused to agree to it in the council. i thank the germans for what they have said.
i should like to thank the interpreters and congratulate mr de rossa on his wonderful irish accent.
the debate is closed. the vote will be tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on:– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the council common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/440/eec on the development of the community's railways and directive 2001/14/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure (05895/2/2006 - c6-0309/2006 - 2004/0047(cod)) (a6-0475/2006) (rapporteur: georg jarzembowski);– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the council common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the community (05893/5/2006 - c6-0310/2006 - 2004/0048(cod)) (a6-0480/2006) (rapporteur: gilles savary);– the recommendation for second reading from the committee on transport and tourism on the council common position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on international rail passengers' rights and obligations (05892/1/2006 - c6-0311/2006 - 2004/0049(cod)) (a6-0479/2006) (rapporteur: dirk sterckx).
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, all this week we have been told that this is a bright new dawn, with parliament having a new president and members. however, as this report demonstrates, we still have ‘leaves on the line’. at the first reading in 2005, mr sterckx said that we must not tinker with international agreements that are already satisfactory. i would therefore remind him that the cotif convention is a practical agreement between 42 individual nations, including many non-eu nations, to facilitate railway travel between them, yet today mr sterckx wants this agreement to be derailed. he is lingering under the impression that neither member states nor domestic rail companies are capable of establishing codes of passenger rights on their own. that is certainly not true in the uk. mr sterckx says this is really about consumer rights, yet it is conceded that more regulation means higher fares. why do my countrymen need eu regulations when they get higher fares? but mr sterckx has not drawn up a report about consumer rights. it is about eu control. the rapporteur says there is no point in drawing up regulations which only apply to the 5% of rail passengers who use international services, so why are we doing this? there is a lot of eu regulation which will not affect the vast majority of people with no cross-border interests, but which at the same time damages the ability to provide domestic services. in the eu, mr sterckx, the cross-border distinction is irrelevant, and until the eu gravy train finally hits the buffers, it is all unstoppable. behind all this week’s self-congratulation, that remains the real truth.
mr president, opening up the rail market to competition is all well and good and, indeed, necessary. however, if you do not have a sufficient rail infrastructure, it is really a secondary consideration. in my constituency of northern ireland, we benefited from essential improvements on the north-south rail connection from larne through to the border with the irish republic and on to dublin. that has been done as part of the trans-european network. however, the other key limb of our infrastructure is languishing in neglect and resulting decline, namely the link from belfast to our second city, londonderry. this is something which i discussed with the commissioner when he visited northern ireland some time ago. this north-west route, particularly north of ballymena, has had minimum investment, and mooted expenditure of gbp 10.5 million will not address the essential need for infrastructure improvements but merely arrest further deterioration, leaving us with a network incapable of carrying the necessary fast trains. what is urgently needed is the inclusion of this north-west line into the tens programme, followed by the investment and upgrade which could result. it is for this that i appeal to the commission. a rail bridge across the river foyle would open up the opportunity of a link into donegal and thereby provide a truly transnational link. this north-west line must not only be saved but also radically improved and, through tens, the eu can make a worthwhile contribution. finally, on the savary report, i must say that it seeks to place far too much regulatory burden on the rail industry. it will provide a tier of eu regulation on top of already adequate national regulation, while providing no benefit, as i see it, to the rail sector or to its users.
mr president, may i begin by congratulating you on your elevation. i hope you will enjoy your two and a half years in the chair and, of course, give me plenty of speaking time! this debate is a bit like the political equivalent of nero fiddling while rome burns. we talk a lot about encouraging a switch of people and goods from road to rail, and yet leave in place huge obstacles to operation of the railways. no wonder passenger numbers and goods figures are falling. we must have a european single market in railways, rather than a series of totally incompatible national markets. without it, the railways are at a handicap, particularly in relation to air travel. i can get a plane ticket from manchester to prague on my computer at the click of a button, but just try getting a train ticket from manchester to prague. it is impossible. we must have liberalisation of the railways now. we must open up the market now. of course we have to have safeguards. i would not recommend anybody to follow the experience of the united kingdom. the privatisation – as opposed to liberalisation – there was a complete disaster. however, under the current government, the uk has put things right and now has the highest investment in railways anywhere, the largest increase in passenger numbers and also has actually seen more kilometres of railway line being built. nobody needs this investment more than the countries of central and eastern europe. why are we delaying when they are desperate for investment? we need that investment in order to put a proper european railway market into operation. we also need to ensure that passengers are properly treated. i receive many complaints from people with reduced mobility who find it very difficult to travel by rail across europe. we need standards on this, and we need proper ticketing so that you can press a button in manchester and get a ticket to wherever you want to go. what is more, we need to move faster than is being proposed by the european commission and the council.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i congratulate ewa hedkvist pedersen on this last report for the european parliament. it is an excellent report, although it has been rather bombarded by some weird and wonderful amendments. we do not need elaborate schemes. we simply need safer roads, safer drivers and safer vehicles and, most importantly, we need action and enforcement. when i was parliament’s rapporteur on ecall, for example, the industry had made progress but the governments were not making progress. that is why i say we need action. however, i have two reservations. firstly, on the issue of daytime running lights, i do not believe that there will be any overall net gain in road safety because, as cars become visible, other users, particularly motorcyclists, become less visible. daytime running lights will mean more fuel usage, and that is bad from a climate change point of view. it is a matter of subsidiarity. the situation in spain during the day is not the same as the situation in sweden. i think this should be left to member states. secondly, i do not believe in harmonised blood alcohol limits, simply because you can have all the standards in the world, but they are no use unless you have enforcement. we in the uk have perhaps a more generous blood alcohol limit, but we have the lowest level of drink driving. why? because enforcement is rigid and the penalties are very severe. that is where we should be putting the emphasis.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, the new provision for building parliamentary capacity in acp countries is particularly welcome. in recent years the european union has committed increasing resources to election observation missions in acp countries, but those of us who have acted as observers are acutely aware that a well-conducted election is only the very first step in the process of establishing good governance. too many newly-elected parliaments have struggled in the absence of a trained civil service, or any opportunity to look at best practice in areas such as budget control, so the specific reference to enhancing parliamentary capacity is very important. however, the fact that meps’ involvement in the cotonou agreement is limited to the assent procedure is frustrating, especially as we take on new areas of scrutiny under the development cooperation instrument. it would be helpful for us to have at least some input into the formulation of acp countries’ strategy papers, which are the key instrument for the development of the millennium development goals, now specifically referred to in the partnership agreement.
thank you very much, madam president, and congratulations. it is very good to see you in the chair. as others have said, we are very proud of the fact that the cotonou partnership agreement represents binding contractual agreements with 78 african, caribbean and pacific countries. it is, therefore, a very special relationship indeed. commissioner, we regret the fact that the great flurry of activity that we saw in 2005 on development and funding for development did not, in fact, include a substantial increase in the contribution of member states of the european union to the european development fund for the acp. the reality is that the 10th edf represents only 0.28 % of member states’ gdp. that contradicts what you said in terms of how you saw the results of those negotiations. i agree with you on the pace of ratification; that remains of enormous concern. only four member states of the european union and five of the acp have currently ratified this part of the agreement, and i think that is of some concern. i have some questions for you. i know you are not the commissioner for development, but perhaps if it is not possible for you answer them, you will pass them on. in barbados, commissioner michel promised to submit the country strategy papers to acp countries’ parliaments for their scrutiny. i want to know whether progress has been made on this commitment, and whether we can have some description from the commission on where we stand on that. further to that, i would like to ask you whether you are prepared to enter into structural dialogue with the european parliament on the country strategy papers for acp countries. my colleague, mr van den berg, has said that we want the same status for the acp as we have for the dci country strategy papers. furthermore, i want to know how the commission responds to questions that, i think, we in the parliament have to ask, for instance on budget support to a country like haiti, which has been recognised by transparency international as the most corrupt country in the world. how is it that the commission is now proposing to give budget support to haiti? the same question applies to equatorial guinea. on our committee, we find it very difficult to understand those decisions. with regard to togo, we see that the commission is now prepared to normalise relations. we want to know where we stand on the 22 commitments: are they being fulfilled by togo. at the vienna jpa, the commission promised to send details to us on the progress with togo and we have, as yet, as i understand it from our secretariat, received absolutely no information on that. finally, commissioner, will you undertake to work more closely with the european parliament on these issues in order to make sure that the joint parliamentary assembly’s views are taken into account? i urge the commission to answer the serious questions of this kind that we are addressing to you this evening.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the previous speaker has just made reference, regretfully, apparently, to lots of jobs in politics going to the stronger people – the men. she obviously never met mrs thatcher! why cannot these reports be written in plain language? the term ‘gender mainstreaming’ occurs throughout the report; what is that? is it some kind of political correctness? paragraph 16, which is all about filling vacancies in eu institutions, says that gender mainstreaming is ‘to be taken into account’. does that mean specific jobs for men and specific jobs for women? paragraph 1 calls for ‘gender equality […] which does not set women against men’. does that mean men and women cannot apply for the same job in case it sets the one against the other? recital a states that some committees ‘never take an interest’ in gender mainstreaming. goodness, what do we do about that? but, wait a bit, there are some facts and figures to go with the jargon. recital f refers to the ‘continuous increase in the percentage of female members of the european parliament, from 17.5 % in 1979 to 30.33 % in 2004’. but, then, recital g notes that, in eu administration, ‘women are under-represented in positions of responsibility’ where political decisions are taken. clearly, we are leading to reverse discrimination. any kind of discrimination is not only thoroughly bad, but surely goes against all that the eu stands for. inevitably, you then move on to quotas, but the report also calls for the dignity of women. in britain, other political parties have women-only candidate lists. what kind of dignity is that? our party does not do it. in the situation under consideration here, what happens if not enough women apply to satisfy the quota? do you leave the post unfilled? i suppose, now, some people will think they have got some kind of raving chauvinist on their hands – not so. i am a teacher, i taught for 39 years and i did so happily with many women. i worked for women in teaching, very happily – no problem. i respected them all. i simply believe that women should have no bar to going for qualifications and should apply for posts on a totally equal basis. anything else, like this report, is demeaning to women, and any self-respecting woman should find this report offensive. i ask members to dismiss it with their vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner, rome ii has been a long journey for us all and, whilst we might have hoped that this was the end, it seems likely that we are just at another staging post. let me start by saying that we appreciate that the common position took on board some of our ideas from the first reading. commissioner, i also want to emphasise the importance that we attach to this regulation, providing, as it will, the ground plan, or roadmap, which will provide clarity and certainty for the basis of civil law claims across europe. we need this, and we, here in parliament, want to get it done, but it has to be done in the right way. this has to fit the aspirations and needs of those we represent. this is not just some theoretical academic exercise; we are making political choices about balancing the rights and expectations of parties before civil courts. i am sorry that we have not reached an agreement at this stage. i still believe that it could have been possible, with more engagement and assistance. perhaps it is because both the other institutions are not used to parliament having codecision in this particular area – i am sorry, but you will have to get used to it! i also want to thank all my colleagues in the political groups in the committee on legal affairs, who have stuck together with me on this long journey and supported a common view, which, subject to sufficient presence in this chamber today, will be clearly shown in our vote. now let me detail the points that still separate us. we have always made it clear that we prefer a general rule, with as few exceptions as possible. if we must have exceptions, they must be clearly defined. thus, we have accepted the position on product liability. however, problems still remain in respect of unfair competition and the environment. with unfair competition, we also face a simultaneous proposal from commissioner kroes. the two proposals must work together; currently they do not. we have tried to present a more acceptable formulation, which, sadly, i think is unlikely to succeed here at today’s vote, and i would therefore urge colleagues to support the deletion, to allow us to return to this at conciliation and do the work properly. it is the same with the environment. i know and deeply respect the fact that many would like a separate rule, but it should not be a rule just for the sake of a headline. it should be a rule that is clear in terms of what facts it applies to. given that we already have several possible formulations, the safest course, again, i would urge, is the general rule. this would also allow us to delete the separate rule today and return to the definition at conciliation. now i come to the two big issues for this parliament. the first is defamation. please understand that we know only too well how difficult an issue this is. however, we managed to get a huge majority at first reading across this house, and you will likely see a similar pattern repeated here today. that the commission decided to exclude this issue before we could consider it again was disappointing, to say the least. that it did so on the basis of a clear two-year review clause, which has now been abandoned, is unacceptable. we know the issues surrounding this area of media and communication will only increase and continue to haunt us. maybe we cannot deal with it now, but we will soon be looking at brussels i again, and it is imperative that jurisdiction and applicable law remain in step. so, would we deprive ourselves of the opportunity to look at this again? exclusion may truly be the only answer, but this parliament wants to try a little bit more to see if we cannot resolve this. i turn to the issue that my colleagues have been most tenacious in their support for (and i am very grateful for that): damages in road-traffic accidents. commissioner, we have the support of insurers, the support of legal practitioners, the support of victims, the support of those we represent, but somehow we cannot transmit these concerns to the commission or to the council. even last week, i was confronted by a very senior justice ministry official who thought that what we were trying to do was the equivalent of applying german law to determine liability in respect of a road-traffic accident which had happened in the uk, where, of course, we drive on the ‘wrong’ side of the road. do you really think we are that stupid? i wish people would have the courtesy to read and understand what we are suggesting: merely the accepted principle of restitutio in integrum – to put victims back in the position they were in before the incident. there should be nothing so fearful in this. indeed, the illogical approach would be for a judge in the victim’s country to be able to deal with the case by virtue of the motor insurance directives and brussels i, and then have to apply a foreign, outside law in respect of damages. this, indeed, would be illogical – and that is the situation we are currently in. please look at what we are saying and appreciate that, given the even the greater mobility of our citizens on europe’s roads, this matter needs attention, sooner rather than later, and a four-year general review clause just will not do. my last hope is that our debates will have brought the subject of private international law out of the dusty cupboards in justice ministries and expert committees into the glare of public, political, transparent debate. therefore, all we ask is that you bear with us a little longer so that, together, the institutions of europe can get this right.
in writing. i will be voting for the jarzembowski report on the development of the community’s railways. the railway network in my own region is vital for communication with london and the rest of the country, particularly from devon and cornwall, where the roads are narrow and congested and a number of bottlenecks exist and the airports small and poorly served. yet coastal erosion and rising sea levels threaten to disrupt and eventually cut the link at dawlish in devon. i am grateful for vice-president barrot’s commitment to try to find ways for the commission to assist here, which would, if it works, be a very practical demonstration of the principles embodied here.
in writing. i voted for this report because of the increasing use of rail passenger transport across the eu. furthermore, whilst establishing a clearly more sustainable transport structure, largely helped by the tens process, railway operators need to be cojoined by simple rules and obligations. in particular, the rights of passengers often go ‘missing’ in the debate for more convenient transport operations. moreover, the problem of monopolistic control over certain rail routes such as the channel tunnel rail link (ctrl) leaves passengers at the disposal of just one company. in the light of this increasing the rights of international rail passenger users, i am concerned that the current approach of certain companies/operators still needs greater efforts by regulatory bodies to ensure a consistent and fair approach.
in writing. i voted for this resolution in order to support those subject to the injustice being perpetrated upon them by the inhumane libyan authorities. however, i disassociate myself from the demand in the motion for a blanket ban throughout the world on capital punishment. in my view, capital punishment can be appropriate and necessary where there are in place wholly reliable and proper judicial processes, proofed with a full range of appeal facilities. clearly, such does not exist in libya.
in writing. the libyan death sentence against the bulgarian nurses and palestinian doctor is atrocious and deepens the tragedy of their wrongful imprisonment these past eight years. we have been in the forefront of those demanding their release. unfortunately, and against my advice, the greens and communists insisted on including a paragraph in the resolution on the wider issue of opposition to the death penalty in principle. although many of us voted against this paragraph, it remains part of a text which we have otherwise strongly supported. many conservatives, myself included, do not object in principle to the death penalty. on the contrary, we would wish to see its restoration in certain very special and rigorously controlled circumstances. we therefore wish to make it clear that our support for this excellent resolution in no way implies our agreement to paragraph 2.
in writing. i would congratulate my colleague, mr romeva i rueda, on this annual report. i was responsible a decade and more ago in the then security and disarmament sub-committee of the committee on foreign affairs for the first report on this subject. one issue at that time was the failure to create a single european arms market leading to a situation where divided national markets created an imperative to export. this in itself meant that european arms ended up in very unsavoury hands and as we saw all too recently we faced our own weapons in hostile hands in iraq. another issue involved was the lack of a legal basis to our code of conduct on arms sales, partly because certain member states did not want their salesmen hampered in the world’s arms markets. mr romeva i rueda’s report shows the same problems are still with us today. the longer we delay finding solutions the more misery the free market in arms visits on the world and the more it costs us in inefficiency, refugees and asylum seekers from the unnatural disasters we are ultimately responsible for.
in writing. i voted for this report. i particularly welcome parliament’s desire for the eu to push for an international treaty on the arms trade. we recognise that spending on arms is a diversion from achieving the millennium goals. no company in any country should profit from the misery and human rights abuses that we see, for example, in darfur. countries which speak the language of diplomacy should not be profiting from fuelling the conflict. as the report says, we need to find better ways to ensure the end use of our licensing systems is the intended use, not a diversion to regimes or opposition movements which inflict inhumane treatment. i also welcome the reference to export credit guarantees but wish the report had gone further. member states should not be underwriting arms sales. at the very least this represents a distortion of competition and can lead to corruption. at its worst, it increases debt repayments and, as we have seen in tanzania recently, makes it more difficult for poor countries to invest in health, education and true sustainable development.
in writing. while much of the content of the romeva report is uncontroversial, it maintains an insistence on a legally binding code of conduct for european arms exports and inevitably seeks to extend the authority of the eu. our emphasis should instead be on an international treaty with focus on those countries that continue to supply terrorists and insurgents and which seem to escape the attentions of those that are always so critical of the western democracies. we therefore abstained on this resolution.
in writing. conservatives believe that road safety is a very important issue but cannot support this report on the grounds that it calls for eu-wide measures through harmonisation processes rather than intergovernmental cooperation over a limited range of cross-border issues. geographical considerations, tradition and culture also have an impact here and as the uk already has one of the safest records in europe, we do not see the need for many of the measures to be given an eu dimension.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party welcomes the principle of the report, which aims to halve the number of fatalities on eu roads by 2010. the report is positive in the fact that it highlights the growing disparity in road safety between certain member states. it also pushes for increased cooperation amongst stakeholders and the sharing of best practice. however, attempts to introduce road safety initiatives such as daytime running lights (drls) and harmonised blood alcohol limits will do little to improve eu road safety. evidence suggests that drls will place motorcyclists and pedestrians at greater risk. rather than alter blood alcohol limits, member states should focus on enforcing the laws already in place and effectively penalising offenders. as such we have decided to abstain on this report.
madam president, worldwide, 20 000 people are on death row waiting to be killed by their own governments. sadly, over 3000 of these are in the united states. i do not single the us out because it is the worst – that is china, with 80% of executions – but because we have hope of the americans. the great prize would be for a change of mind in the united states and the signs are there. the number of executions in the states of the us has dropped dramatically since 1999: there were 277 in that year, and 128 in 2005. twelve states have now abolished the death penalty, not including texas, which clocks up an unimpressive one-third of the 1100 executions in the us in the last 30 years. i think the commission and the presidency need to be more proactive and less hesitant in seeking a moratorium and abolition worldwide through a un general assembly resolution. as in some other areas of human rights policy, like extraordinary rendition and war-on-terror abuses, the eu is not always as effective in putting its principles into practice as parliament would wish.
madam president, i must say that the arrogance of this eu knows no bounds. not satisfied with dictating to member states that they must not avail of the ultimate deterrent – the death penalty – it now wishes to dictate to the rest of the world. awful as the fate of the bulgarian nurses in libya is, and while this house should be vigorous in protesting against their situation, it does not justify us demanding a global ban on the death penalty. wrongful imprisonment is intolerable, but it does not lead rational people to oppose all imprisonment. no, i say that if there is a fair, transparent, human rights compliant judicial system, with a reliable appeal process, then a sovereign nation state is perfectly entitled to deploy the death penalty for capital crimes, if that is the democratically expressed wish of its people. they, not we, have the right to choose what is right for them.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, my group welcomes the commission’s recent focus on energy policy and climate change, its biomass proposal of december 2005, its proposals concerning the ‘standby’ mode for electronic equipment of september 2006, its energy policy this month and today’s announcement of a fuel quality directive. we feel that together these represent an ambitious but not unachievable policy. such a policy is essential if the union and its member states are to live up to their responsibility to citizens, if we are to enjoy secure energy supplies and if we are to persuade other countries to follow our example. if we had heeded the warnings of californian scientists in the late 1970s, we could probably have prevented climate change. now we can hope only to contain it. for that reason, liberals and democrats deplore the pleadings of german car manufacturers in bild zeitung and the attempts by some commissioners to water down emissions targets. (applause)if the japanese can make hybrid cars, if the french and the italians can produce cars that are far more efficient, why cannot others as well? i do not often quote konrad adenauer in this house – i leave that to my colleagues on the right – but adenauer was pertinent when he said ‘god placed limits on man’s reason. but not on his stupidity’. (laughter and applause)we will not succeed unless our citizens recognise there is a problem and start changing their habits. do we really need electric razors or electric curling irons? do we really need cars that go from 0 to 100 km per hour in less than six seconds if it will destroy our planet in less than six decades? there is a boast of car manufacturers that their cars do 240 km per hour. that may be so, but they emit 360g of co2 for each kilometre. stopping this is not hitting jobs. a belgian government study last year showed that cutting co2 emissions has no overall effect on jobs, because there are new high-tech sectors which create new jobs. it is not just on climate issues where new thinking is needed: we need to feed a rapidly growing world population and bring living standards up to the point where population numbers stabilise. there are many ways to do that – growing soya, for example, with the same nutritional value as beef for less than 1% of the inputs. democracy can no longer be run by crisis management, where serious problems are left untackled until there is a crisis. where livelihoods and the sustainability of life are at stake, we need a purposeful, proactive approach to our politics, such as that suggested by the president-in-office today. it is not easy to change people’s habits. there is not enough emphasis in the commission’s proposals on cutting energy use, but it is essential. hg wells said ‘human history becomes more and more a race between education and catastrophe’. if the commission grasps this agenda, if it challenges the member states rather than deferring to them, then there is hope that the union will yet command greater support among our citizens. (applause)
mr president, the presidency has got off to a very good start on this issue. i do not doubt the commitment of the minister in any way at all, and was very pleased to hear the strong words from the chancellor just the other week. but of course the rhetoric has got to be matched by the reality, and germany has a problem. it has the problem of the national allocation plan, first of all. i realise there is a problem as regards a difference in interpretation between the presidency and the commission, but one way or another it does not help with you in the hot seat not having a national allocation plan approved. so minister, please get it sorted. then of course there is the issue today of the german car industry and the rhetoric in the various papers. i have just come from and will return to chairing a hearing on reducing co2 emissions from motor vehicles. the clear message from many of the experts speaking is that 120 grammes per kilometre is perfectly realisable within the five-year timescale that we are talking about at a cost of a thousand euros: that is the estimate that many of those experts are putting on it. and that is a thousand euros with a quick return for car-owners because of fuel economy and savings at the petrol pump. i ask you, how often in environment debates have we heard industry coming along and saying ‘this is impossible, this is the end of our industry if you do this, european union; this is going to cost an extravagant amount, european parliament’? and so often we introduce the legislation and somehow the problems are dissipated, industry copes with it and we become more competitive and our position across the world is strengthened. i suspect the same thing is happening once again. industry exaggerates, it always does. we talk about dealing with this issue of climate change. if we are looking at the real price of a car, which has come down so significantly over the past 20 or 30 years, and we are saying that to reduce emissions by 25% would cost an extra thousand euros, still leaving the real price of a car at less than it was thirty years ago, can we not bear that price? how can we look at our children and say that we were not prepared to pay just a little bit more to make such a big difference? (applause)
mr president, this issue is surrounded by half-truths and misleading statements which cast doubt over the integrity of the issue and raise more questions than answers. for instance, why, outside this house at any rate, is there continual reference to carbon emissions? carbon is a black solid; it is soot or graphite or diamonds. they should be talking about carbon dioxide which is, by the way, not a pollutant but a natural constituent of the atmosphere. why did the director of a uk environment agency tell me they could not link global warming to climate change? if global warming is due to co2 and the greenhouse effect, as opposed to a variation in solar activity, why was the same director unable to tell me if the greenhouse affect rises in proportion to the extra amount of co2 or rises greatly for the same amount of co2 – an exponential – or a lessening increase, meaning a tapering-off graph and a static effect at some time. why does the stern report show a hockey stick graph for global warming – a steady rise over 2000 years – when in fact it was warmer in the 14th and 15th centuries than it is now? why does friends of the earth say that incineration of waste to generate electricity produces more co2 than conventional gas-fired generators when effectively much of the waste is bio-fuel and therefore carbon-neutral? they ignore the fact that landfill waste will produce methane, which is 12 times more potent a greenhouse gas than co2. finally, why does the president of the commission drive a car which produces 1.6 times more co2 per kilometre than the average sort of car i drive?
mr president, there has been a lot of rhetoric here this afternoon, particularly from the council, but what is missing is a sense of urgency and a commitment to ambitious action. it is clear the eu has to do a lot more and to show real leadership. however, in my one minute i want to ask you, commissioner dimas, to do something very specific. there has been a lot of discussion about what is wrong today but not enough about what we need to be doing – some of the answers. i want to raise the issue of personal carbon allowances. it is a scheme that is growing in interest in many member states whereby emission rights are allocated to all individuals on an equal per capita basis and then surrendered, for example when they are purchasing fossil fuels or electricity for personal use and, of course, over time those emission rights decline. it is complementary to the emissions trading scheme, but in many ways it is more equitable than much greater taxation, it has the advantage of being subject to an overall and declining cap and, crucially, it engages people on a personal level. it affects individual choices that they make, because one of the strongest disincentives to individual action is the sense that your neighbour is not doing what you are doing. therefore, i would ask your departments to investigate what they can do to encourage the take-up of such schemes across the european union.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner and the minister for their personal commitment to this crucial issue and remind the house that these are the good guys! there are plenty of people in the commission and in the council who are going to be pushing against these in terms of where we are at. the proposals that have come forward from the commission are indeed ambitious. however, they are not ambitious enough and they do not follow through the science. the science suggests that if we are to follow through what the ministers have already decided – that is not to go above two degrees – then you have to have a 30% cut in carbon emissions. if you follow stern, you have to take the pain now to save later. what we want to see is world leadership. a 20% cut is not world leadership. the ministers have to follow through. if they sign up to this, they have to follow through. it is disappointing to see that the member states are not signing up to 20% binding targets on renewables. it is disappointing that the commission has caved in to the german car lobby, but it is good to hear the ministers say that actually we are not going to cave in to the car lobby, as some commissioners have done – not mr dimas. please minister, sort out your national allocation plan. it is crucial. it is time for the council not just to talk the talk, but to walk the walk. (applause)
climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing humanity, and it is one where isolated and patchy responses by individual countries would be entirely inadequate. the european union is a level at which action can be highly effective, both in setting stringent common rules for our common market and in terms of leverage to secure action at world level. without the eu, there would have been no kyoto agreement, but we must now move forward with all the more vigour to secure a successor agreement. we must also look at strengthening our emissions trading scheme and seeking to extend it to other parts of the world. indeed, eu action on the environment must become so effective and visible that our citizens begin to equate the letters eu with ‘environmental union’!
we are speaking as though the debate is over, and the threat of catastrophic global warming is real. yet there are many climatologists who take a different view. they believe that current changes are within the normal historic range, and that predictions of future warming are exaggerated and alarmist. nevertheless, whatever our view on climate change, energy security demands that we reduce our dependence on imported fossil fuels. we can no longer rely on russia, the middle east, nigeria and venezuela for energy. while we must develop renewables, and enhance energy conservation, there is only one non-carbon technology which can provide the continuous, reliable base-load power we need to drive economic growth, and that technology is nuclear. it is bitterly ironic that many of the climate alarmists, who call for dramatic reductions in carbon emissions, also oppose nuclear power.
mr president, of course the reality of this is that on pnr, the americans are setting a negotiation bar for conditions of entry into the us or into their airspace. that is the reality. they can set the bar as high as they like. we have citizens who wish to travel and businesses who want to work there. that is the reality. the reality on swift is that we had an institution, not i believe the only institution, that was dealing with a conflict of jurisdictions, operating and holding data in the us and equally in the eu. it had subpoenas which it legally had to meet in the united states of america and that was where we had the conflict. swift, i believe, has actually operated and negotiated an excellent memorandum of understanding. we can either come into politics to name, shame, moan and whinge, or to try and solve a problem. i came in for the latter. therefore i believe, commissioner frattini, you are absolutely right. we need legal certainty for eu citizens, for eu businesses operating outside the eu and with offices outside the eu as well as within, and in which they hold data. we need a joint political commitment of congress and this parliament working across the transatlantic divide to fight the threat of terrorism which affects us all, and indeed we need to protect above all our fundamental rights and freedoms. therefore i welcome the joint meeting of this house and us elected representatives so that we can reach an agreement. finally, this will only be achieved by decisive action at council level, not just at commission level. i welcome the excellent suggestion of the previous speaker of bringing this up at the g7. let us solve the problem; let us not moan about it.
mr president, i do not doubt commissioner frattini’s own personal good faith and commitment to data protection. but i think the commission, as well as the council, are being as feeble about swift privacy abuses as they have been over pnr over the last four years. this is european data, belonging to european citizens, made available for commercial purposes in europe under the protection of european data protection law. but despite the persistent and insistent demands of meps, the eu, in the less than robust hands of the council and commission, has allowed a large degree of us extra-territorial jurisdiction. in any global framework for exchange of mass commercial data for security purposes, the eu must forcefully project its own laws and principles. commissioner, you say that it is ‘unlikely’ that swift data have been used in the automated targeting system, which is a profiling exercise assigning a risk score to each individual based on assumptions – and no doubt stereotypes – deriving from their behaviour and characteristics. but why do you not know categorically, yes or no, whether swift data has been used in ats? in relation to pnr, you accept the department of homeland security’s assurance that the use of pnr data for profiling complies with the undertakings of the pnr agreement. but do you agree with the dhs assessment? yes or no? the lack of clear answers is undermining trust, and i think that we are owed those clear answers as to the commission’s legal evaluation.
mr president, in northern ireland it is good to see seasoned supporters of terrorism profess commitment to the rule of law against which they fought for so long. but only a fool would accept verbal pledges from those who hitherto did not baulk at murder without putting those pledges to the rigorous test of time and proven delivery. sinn féin has made a highly conditional commitment to support the police, but only when they are rewarded with government office. such blackmail is unacceptable. genuine commitment to law and order is unconditional. furthermore, you cannot be untainted democrats and an aspirant party for government and still be inextricably linked to an illegal organisation boasting a continuing army council. so sinn féin is only at the start of a long road of transition from terrorist adjunct to a party fit for the purposes of office. may its journey be real, rather than virtual.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of mine clearance. i have very severe concerns about the continuing funding for this all-important issue from the european union. although there are some good aspects of mainstreaming of the anti-personnel landmine budget line, if the national authorising officer does not include funding for humanitarian disarmament – which includes clearance of cluster munitions and landmines – in their country’s strategy paper, then after december this year funds for these life-saving operations funded by the eu could cease. this would have a severe impact on a variety of development programmes in particular countries. i call on the president to put pressure on the commission to look into the detail of the possible consequences, which will include the loss of life through uncleared landmines and cluster munitions.
a uachtaráin, foilsíodh tuarascáil an ombudsman do phóilíneacht i dtuaisceart éireann an tseachtain seo a chuaigh thart, tuarascáil a dheimhnigh claonpháirtíocht idir an péasfhósra ansin scuad an mharaithe pharlaimíleataigh aontachtacha. níl sa tuarascáil seo ach barr an scéil. is léir nuair a amharctar ar shinsearacht iad siúd a raibh páirt acu ann laistigh den phéasfhórsa agus a ndearnadh tagairt dóibh san fhiosrú seo, gur cleachtadh polaitiúil agus riaracháin í an chlaonpháirtíocht arbh ann di ag gach leibhéal den phéasfhórsa sin - an ruc - agus i rialtas na breataine. is í an mhórcheist anois ná cad é a dhéanfar leis an tuarascáil agus cad é an gníomhú a ghlacfar. in ainneoin sin, ghlac sinn féin cinneadh stairiúil chun tacaíocht a thabhairt don tseirbhís phóilíneachta nua. tá deis shuntasach ann anois le haghaidh tuilleadh dul chun cinn i bpróiseas na síochána in éirinn. d'iarrfainn ar pháirtí an dup de chuid ian paisley, agus ar fheisire seo acu jim allister go háirithe, oibriú le sinn féin, oibriú liomsa chomh maith chun an dul chun cinn sin a chinntiú i bpróiseas na síochána in éirinn.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, obesity has been described by the world health organisation as the greatest health threat facing the west, following a radical increase in the last 30 years. in many eu countries, over half the adult population is overweight, with nearly one-third of all adults categorised as obese. there are also three million children in europe already in the obese category, with a further 14 million considered overweight. children have even been observed developing diseases normally associated with old age, such as type 2 diabetes. there is a major problem, it is getting worse and it affects us all. in my own country our national audit office has quantified the economic consequences of obesity to be around half a billion pounds annually in direct health costs, plus a further two billion pounds in wider costs to the economy. as taxpayers, we all pay for the problem, so we are all stakeholders in finding a solution. something must clearly be done, but the issue is, who decides? this thoughtful report from mrs ries makes clear that it is not for the eu to decide. there can be help at eu level by sharing best practice, promoting new ideas, etc., because health promotion is an agreed eu competence. health provision is for member states. however, responsibility lies not just with member state governments or food and drink manufacturers, but with parents and individuals themselves. we do not want a big nanny state or a big nanny europe only permitting us to do what it considers good for us. we want to help people decide for themselves, and that is also why we have referred to the television without frontiers directive, calling for member states and the commission to develop codes of conduct regarding children’s advertising, rather than compulsory controls. for avoidance of doubt, i am referring to the revisions approved by parliament to that directive last december. finally, we should remember that calorie inputs represent only half the problem. i am delighted that the commissioner in his opening remarks referred to the other half, which was energy output, i.e. that people of all ages should take more exercise. i am also delighted that he referred to the need for governments and others to promote competitive sports and stop selling off school playing fields. everyone has a responsibility to address the problem. it is time that everyone faced up to it. i congratulate the commission on its paper and particularly the rapporteur for the care and thought that she has put into this report.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs ries, who has produced a good report and worked in a very collaborative fashion. i should also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs. we have all worked together and i think, commissioner, you will see that we have a general consensus that something must be done. we are grateful to the commission for putting this issue at the top of its working agenda. the eu cannot do everything. mr bushill-matthews said that. responsibility is at national level, but there are three areas where the eu could make a difference. the first has already been mentioned: food labelling. what we in the pse group want is mandatory back-of-pack labelling of the eight key nutrients. we do not want labelling where the industry itself decides which nutrients it is going to make consumers aware of. many retail companies and food companies are doing this already and they want a level playing field as well. many of them want mandatory labelling on the back of the pack, and i think it is something you should be looking at in the revision of your regulations, commissioner. we want front-of-pack signposting and clear systems, and we want this to happen soon. as regards advertising, we must not play lip-service to tackling advertising to children. we have to do something real about it. in the uk something real is happening. our regulator is now stopping advertising of foods that are high in fat, sugar or salt to children, and i think we should look for this across europe. finally, a key area you could work in, commissioner, is that of product reformulation. this week is national salt awareness week in the uk. many food manufacturers have reduced salt successfully in foods in the uk. we want to see more action on that level and we want to see more action on trans fats. mrs ries mentioned this. trans fats are dangerous. they have no nutritional value. they are banned in new york. denmark has tried to take action. we want you to stop the action against denmark and to take action at eu level to do something about trans fats. what is the point of adding things to food which have no value? i welcome the written declaration that i, mr higgins, mr jørgensen and mr bowis have launched this week calling for the eu to act on trans fats. i hope you will look at that, commissioner.
thar ceann ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, mar iar-aire sláinte cuirim fáilte roimh an tuarascáil seo. aontaím léi go bhfuil gá daoine agus comhlachtaí a spreagadh chun an rud ceart a dhéanamh, ach creidim go láidir go bhfuil gá le cosc a úsáid fosta. tá ilthosca ann ar cúis le mortabháil iad agus baineann freagairt ar bith le roghanna i réimsí éagsúla beartais. cé go bhfuil oideachas agus rogha tomhaltóirí tábhachtach, caithfidh muid cinntiú go nglacann údaráis phoiblí, déantúsóirí bia, fógróirí agus na meáin lena gcuid freagrachtaí. cuirim fáilte go háirithe roimh an leasú a iarrann ar dhéantúsóirí bia agus ar an tionscal margaíochta stop a chur le daoine cáiliúla, scannáin agus carachtair chartúin a bhfuil tóir ag páistí orthu a úsáid le bianna a bhfuil ardleibhéal saille, siúcra agus salainn iontu a chothú i measc páistí. ba chóir do dhéantúsóirí lipéadú soiléir agus buan a thabhairt isteach ar bhealach nach mbeidh gá do thomhaltóirí a bheith ina saineolaithe cothaithe chun na roghanna cearta acu a dhéanamh.
the rapporteur has tried to find a balance between the widely differing viewpoints in committee, which i accept is not an easy process, but i still believe that this report could, and should, be strengthened. i will be supporting amendments tabled by my group, which aim to improve the formulation of industrial food products, to call for restrictions on the marketing of fast food, rich in sugar, fat or salt, to children, especially by tv advertising, to improve standards within schools in order to improve food and cooking knowledge, and to reduce junk food marketing within schools. i also support the call for a ban on trans-fatty acids in industrial food production, as has recently been agreed in new york city. in the eu, more incentives could be given to improve the nutritional value of food products by promoting quality food production within the cap and rural development policies.
rapporteur. – mr president, in opening this discussion i would like us to imagine ourselves as one of those people we represent, perhaps off on holiday to another european country or a young person off to study somewhere else, or somebody off to a business meeting in another european capital, or even to work on a building site. all of these are simple everyday scenarios that sadly contain the potential for mishaps, for accidents involving personal injury or even death in another country. let me also give you some figures by way of example: in 2004 alone in germany, just one of our 27 member states, there were 50 000 road traffic accidents involving personal injury and a foreign national from another european country. in the uk last year, one firm of lawyers alone reported opening some 6000 files on cross-border personal injury accidents in europe. well, you might say, let the lawyers get on with it. but the lawyers have come to us with a problem. all legal actions are subject to a period of time within which they have to be commenced, a so-called limitation period. all good lawyers are training in their national system to observe and watch these time limits very carefully. otherwise the whole claim is dead, finished, struck out. it is one of the nightmares of every young lawyer to miss a limitation period deadline. of course, they all know their own, but can they be expected to know the intricacies of 27 national systems? and there are intricacies, sometimes involving differing definitions of what is a civil or criminal claim. more importantly, the time limit itself varies tremendously, between one and thirty years across the european union. it is bad enough to be an accident victim in another member state. but then to fall a secondary victim to a technical difficulty over limitation periods which then stop any claim being made is, as we say in english, really a case of adding insult to injury. this is a real, practical and growing problem as we encourage free movement of persons. i hope that the very limited numbers i have been able to quote give an idea of the problem which in reality must be multiplied many times across the member states of the union. as i have stated above, legal practitioners, insurers and victims alike have come to us with this problem asking that we approach you, commissioner, to look at a range of possibilities. we know the issue is sensitive. it concerns national procedural law, so any intervention at european level should be strictly limited to the cross-border cases only. it may be that for these cases a harmonised limitation period of say four years might be considered, or maybe we should adopt clear conflict of laws rules. whatever the shape of the ultimate solution, practitioners and claimants alike need certainty if valuable and personally critical claims are not to be in danger of being lost because of differing procedural rules that can really cause individual and family misery if things go awry. this is a practical problem arising out of the use by our citizens of free movement and all that the internal market offers. on our side we should be prepared to respond with a system of european civil justice which does not, as i have said earlier, just add insult to injury. i hope, commissioner, that you will feel able to respond to this initiative which has been the subject of a good deal of positive lobbying from citizens and others towards members during the weeks leading up to this debate.
rapporteur. – mr president, it is so hugely flattering to speak to an almost empty chamber! the cook islands, the fiji islands, kiribati, the marshall islands, the federated states of micronesia, nauru, niue, palau, papua new guinea, samoa, the solomon islands, timor-leste, tonga, tuvalu, vanuatu – exotic places, fantastic places, so distant, so far away, so romantic and so on, but actually they are in need. all these countries are part of the pacific islands. historically, europe has had the strongest influence in the pacific region through colonial rule. the end of the second world war hastened the end of european colonialism, but the relationship continued. through the lomé convention and the cotonou agreement, the pacific region is now linked to us and our daily lives through the acp. even if the population of the pacific islands is small, we have to bear in mind that the pacific ocean itself covers nearly 30% of the planet’s surface. their location, while bringing huge benefits to the region through fisheries and tourism, means they find themselves isolated through a tyranny of distance. however, advances in technology, air travel and infrastructure have helped to alleviate their economic circumstances. another thing they should consider – and i am very pleased to see the commission in full strength here – is that the english-speaking digital economy may provide another way forward for them to provide business process outsourcing and knowledge process outsourcing services to the united states and australasia. the region shows an economic contrast, with annual gdp per capita ranging from eur 500 to eur 8000. this is like comparing somalia to bulgaria. therefore, the strategy for the region must have a certain flexibility in order to ensure that the development assistance is channelled according to national and regional parities and to achieve maximum benefit in both the richer and poorer islands. for many pacific islanders, agricultural products are their primary exports to international markets, supplying commodities such as sugar, copra, bananas, coconuts and palm oil. however, they face challenges such as global warming, which is a huge challenge for them. we have also given them another interesting problem: economic partnership agreements – epas – which they have to contend with. they tell me that they are losing revenue through their intra-regional customs union. what are they to do? do we help them, support them? do we create infrastructure so that they can come out of this problem? we need to think about this. one of the major challenges faced by the region is the sustainable management of fisheries. tuna is especially abundant in the pacific, with a third of the world’s catch caught in the pacific islands, valued at eur 2 billion. are we protecting their catch? are we making sure that the benefits of their catches go back to their people? i do not know. maybe the commission should look at this. i do not know exactly where their catch is going. they should not be as poor as they are if they are getting eur 2 billion for those catches. my report stresses that any encouragement of tourism in the region must go hand-in-hand with increased local ownership of the tourist sector. i stress that in the majority of cases only the richer countries, with more developed infrastructure and more frequent air connections, attract significant numbers of tourists each year. in these cases, for the poorer countries, development assistance must continue to be used to finance infrastructure and to encourage sustainable tourism. in this regard, why have we not looked at creating a pacific hub, a regional hub? we could create a hub, like dubai. after all, what was dubai? dubai was full of sand 20 years ago! today it is a hub for regional air transport. sheik maktoum and those intelligent arabs have created something quite extraordinary. why do we not that in the pacific for these islanders? my report recommends that the more developed pacific island countries should continue to deliver local processing, thereby creating more employment. they should explore the possibility of the european investment bank giving soft loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, to add value to their exports. many of the islands are politically fragile, as we have seen through the many military coups in fiji. i am sick of hearing about military coups in fiji, but they need to be able to feel that they are going to have a future as two communities together, and we need to help them with that. they must stop or we should stop the aid. that is a threat, but we need to have some sort of quid pro quo on this issue. provision of good governance throughout the pacific is vital, and to achieve the millennium development goals we must also achieve a certain measure of mutuality. in papua new guinea, for example, and the solomon islands, they have problems with regard to aids. the eu, as a major donor to the region, has an opportunity to create a strategy that will support the island countries of the pacific in achieving the millennium development goals and bringing their people to realise their full potential. our report is just the start.
the first item is the report by klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, with recommendations to the commission on the european private company statute (2006/2013(ini)) (a6-0434/2006).
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, first let me also extend my congratulations to you on your appointment and the conduct of your first debate. i must also start with an apology to the rapporteur because, although i attended the hearing on this subject, i was unable to participate in the debate in committee and i know it is a bit irritating when somebody then pops up in plenary. i broadly welcome the underlying idea in the proposal, but i have some concerns that i hope the commission will investigate further during future work on this matter. mr lehne, you have said in your explanatory note to the report – and indeed the commissioner has also said just now, and i agree – that the statute will need to focus on the needs of smes. but that of course covers just about all companies except multinationals. to me it is clear that if we follow all of the recommendations in the annex, those that are likely to benefit or choose this option are towards the medium rather than the small end of the spectrum of companies. they certainly would not be start-up companies. the suggested capital requirements ensure that is the case. i do not want people to say ‘here you are standing there as a brit not wanting any capital requirement’. i recognise that the capital does not necessarily have to be paid in and i welcome attempts to find a compromise on that, but it will still have an impact, especially on small businesses. smaller businesses, whether at the start-up or whether trying to expand, have enough cost and difficulty trying to give belt-and-braces guarantees to banks without there being an added tier of financial expectation. and, make no mistake, the fact that shareholders could potentially lose eur 10 000, even if not paid in at the start, does add an extra tier of financial expectation. now, that may not matter at all since it is optional, and if you do not like the statute, you do not have to use it, but i would prefer that if you propose something, it would be liked and used and accessible to all companies. while i have said that there may be little incentive in some quarters to choose this, that does not mean it is because small companies do not conduct cross-border business or do not aspire to do so. many quite small companies do engage in significant cross-border business and european court of justice decisions make it clear that they can do so. but, as it is optional, maybe that is no matter. or is that really the case? i would not like to see the situation where the new statute introduced a factor of discrimination where consumers were concerned that if you were not big enough to consider it worth being a european private company, you are not big enough to do business in europe. that would run completely counter to the notion of a single market and the mutual importance of fostering and nurturing small businesses within that market. in a single market, size must not matter.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i find this absolutely fascinating! every time i come here i have to smile. what this place knows about running small businesses is absolutely unbelievable. when i look up the cvs of members of this parliament, i find that nobody has ever had any serious responsibility for a small company in their lives. it is amazing what we all know about these things! in 1992 i started a small business. i thought about it and i bought some old-fashioned, second-hand furniture. i sucked my pencil and thought, ‘my goodness me, what have i done? i have left a big corporation, where do i go from here?’. that business now has branches in hong kong, jersey, the channel islands and south africa, as well as london and york, which is my constituency. i really do not think i could do that again. there are so many regulations, it is unbelievable. if you really want to fire up small business in the european union, and particularly the united kingdom, i would suggest that these people here and the commission get their blasted noses out of everybody else’s business and stop trying to tell us how we should run our businesses! just let us get on with it, because if you do not, more and more businesses are going to go to dubai, bermuda and the channel islands – i am moving half my business to the channel islands as it is. i would counsel you and the commission to please keep your ill-informed noses out of small businesses!
on behalf of the its group. – madam president, this report is a contradiction in terms. governments cannot micro-manage enterprise. since when has the european union initiated anything that improves trade, minimises costs, cuts red tape, generates new wealth, creates new jobs, frees up enterprise? when ever? most governments can hope to contribute to economic growth only by clearing the decks of obstacles and creating an enterprise-free environment. government ought to be about enabling people and their initiative to thrive. after that it should stand well back. the uk has a huge, permanent and growing deficit with the eu. does anyone here seriously imagine that by seizing control over company law relating to smes, the european union will change or improve that situation? do you really imagine that possible, especially as these proposals are based on german and french ideas of a social market? i endorse what mr bloom has just said. how many of you here have ever started a new business at your own risk? created jobs? funded it for yourselves and successfully run it for, let us say, 20 years? how many of you have done that? how many people on that committee have done that? how many of you know what it takes to start a new business in the uk? well, i will tell you. less than a hundred pounds, ten minutes on the phone and you can do business anywhere. compare that with these proposals. we have centuries of company law in the uk, thank you very much. and it works just fine. we also have smes trading all over the world and they do just fine. most of their nightmares come from past misguided attempts by the eu to ‘help’ with trade on the continent. most of that ‘help’ merely interferes with their activities, and the idea of yet more ‘help’ will be greeted with horror. over the years we have seen masterpieces of unintended consequences from this place. there is the working time directive, which finally proved to a business friend of mine that the eu was clinically insane. there is the drive for a level playing field, the very antithesis of wealth and job creation, which totally depends on finding differences. and now we have got the licensing of authorised economic operators, which hugely benefits those who qualify and undermines everyone else with extra costs and bureaucracy. even the socialist british government has figured out that this proposal is expensive and dangerous nonsense and it belongs in the bin.
commissioner, i should like to thank you for your participation in the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 today. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is oral question to the commission on the renegotiation of the government procurement agreement (gpa) by daniel varela suanzes-carpegna, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-0128/2006 – b6-0450/2006).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, congratulations! it is very good to see you in the chair. commissioner mccreevy, i too should like to start off by talking about how best we support small and medium-sized enterprises. i am very pleased that there seems to be a concern right across the different political groups of this house. i think we all share that. i would like to ask first of all for some clarification of remarks made by the french trade minister, christine lagarde, when she came to parliament’s committee on international trade just last week. she spoke very passionately and rightly, i believe, about the importance of defending small and medium-sized enterprises in europe. and yet you, commissioner, seem to have a very different view of the role of smes and how best to support them. guaranteeing better access to public procurement contracts for innovative small and medium-sized enterprises is essential. they represent 75 million jobs in the union and 50% of community gni, and they are a vital component of thriving local and regional economies all around the eu. but it seems that the commission is voluntarily giving up the right to support its smes. there are already five countries– canada, the us, israel, japan and south korea – that will introduce provisions into their legislation which give privileged access to smes for public procurement, and yet the eu, bizarrely, has decided it has no interest in standing up for its own smes. so commissioner, can you really justify this position? for the eu to forego the right to a level playing field which would allow smes to have an equal opportunity to compete like the large multinationals seems both extraordinary and indeed unacceptable. surely we too should be using the renegotiation of the gpa in geneva to break down the wto barriers which prevent member states from implementing a privileged access measure for smes should they so wish. we too should be arguing for derogations as part of the revised gpa to allow us to bring in preferential measures, and by doing this we are simply restoring equality of treatment in order to prevent the large multinational corporations from having all of the advantages. i very much regret as well that we have not had the opportunity for a prior debate really in europe about whether it is appropriate to try to extend international trade rules to cover government procurement at all. many would argue that government procurement has little or nothing to do with traditional matters of trade, tariffs and quotas, and that it is an unacceptable area for negotiations at the wto, because subjecting government procurement at the national, local or regional level to one-size-fits-all rules at a global level on how taxpayers’ funds are spent i think destroys citizens’ reasonable expectations that they should have a level of democratic accountability over how their money is spent. essentially, taxpayers’ money is different from private, corporate money, and citizens rightly expect that they should have the right, for example, to lobby to cut off expenditure on companies that were doing business in south africa when there was apartheid, or to disqualify companies with bad labour or environmental records. i believe we have a really important role to play in defending local sourcing and procurement as a vital instrument of local employment and industrial policy.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the debate we are having about this oral question epitomises so much of what is wrong with the european union. firstly, we have to deal with the wto through one man who represents no less than 27 nations. he has no popular mandate and in the light of his record in british politics would not have been chosen to run a village fête. i do not want an eu representative to speak for my country at the wto. i want a representative of her majesty’s government who not only knows my country but cares for it too. then there is the whole issue of competitive tendering. china was mentioned as a potential provider in the oral question and it may well be highly competitive. whilst i condemn the suppression of individual freedoms and rights in china, the chinese know a few things about running a successful economy. government spending is only some 20% of gdp, whereas in the eurozone it was 47.5% in 2005. in china, business runs with a light regulatory touch. in the european union, we are regulating ourselves to death. in 2005 mr blair promised that the british presidency would cut red tape. it did nothing of the sort. how many thousands of pages did it add to the mountain of legislation? my country was hoodwinked into joining the european union in 1973 on the basis of it being just a free trade area. this is all it should be: no parliament, no commission, no directives. instead it has become a bureaucratic monster which is wrecking our economy.
mr president, i should like to congratulate you on your appointment. i am not going to speak about smes because many of my colleagues have already done so, but i want to emphasise and agree with them that this is an extremely important issue. government procurement accounts for 20% of gdp in developing countries and around 15% of gdp in developed countries. i feel a little bit janus-faced on this issue, because intuitively i am in favour of opening up public procurement to competition. it should in theory reduce government costs and increase transparency in government procurement and therefore cut out corruption. that should bring benefits both to the developed and the developing world and, in the developing world, would free up resources for health and education. however, if you look at the list of those who have signed up for gpa, there is not a single african country among the 36. it is clear that the african countries and other ldcs feel that the costs potentially outweigh the benefits of signing up to this agreement. i would ask the commission what support could it plan to give, firstly, african and other ldc countries to enable them to compete in the european market and the other developed markets on a fair footing and what assistance can they be given to develop their own industry so that they can sustain competition inside their own country if they sign up for opening of the government procurement contracts. i also worry, as mrs lucas has indicated in a slightly different way, how non-trade issues will be taken into account in gpa and the application of gpa, how issues like the environment, human rights and labour rights will be taken into account. i agree with mrs lucas that this is public money and that there is a danger, if we simply have gpa without any conditions, that labour and environmental standards could be driven down. on the one hand i can see the advantage of opening up public procurement, but it is fraught with dangers and i hope the commission will examine these issues.
mr president, i should like to congratulate you once again, and to thank the commissioner. in britain, smes are unfairly shut out of public procurement due to well-meaning requirements such as corporate social responsibility and environmental standards; quite often a requirement for three years of audited accounts, which many small businesses cannot meet; a lack of competitive tendering; the bundling of contracts that become too big for smes and favour the large companies; and secrecy and a lack of transparency. we know that the eu directive requires transparency and competitive tendering, but most contracts that smes bid for are quite often below the threshold. so when you speak to smes and ask them what they want to see, they say they want to see a cut in bureaucracy and paperwork. they want to see authorities avoiding the one-size-fits-all requirement for certification. they want to see contracts advertised on websites such as ‘supply2.gov’, and they also want to see unbundled contracts. but we have to recognise that government departments are not commercial organisations and will often want to seek to avoid the extra work involved in multiple tenders, so we therefore need to provide incentives for governments and local government. in america, targets have been provided as to whether fair competition actually does or does not exist. smes do not require quotas, but they need a performance metric to see whether there is fair competition. also in america there are small sme advisers helping the government to enable smes to have fair access. these requirements – benchmarks and competition advocates – would probably not be allowed under the wto agreement, and i understand the reason, but it does unintentionally forbid measures which ensure fair competition. the wto agreement is actually generally positive, as it is anti-protectionist, but it forbids measures which are needed to help small businesses. so while some member states want an opt-out, others rightly fear that this would increase protectionism. therefore, let us call on the commission to seek a compromise whereby an opt-out is secured, but a new agreement is drafted to allow sme-friendly measures and to greatly extend anti-protectionist measures. if we allow sme-friendly measures, the agreement would remove america’s reasons for its opt-out, which has been used to retain the buy america act. it would also help british and european smes to compete globally.
mr president, i have an altogether different point to make. i was the vice-president of the human rights sub-committee and the deputy coordinator in the committee on foreign affairs at the time when this report went through the development committee. it is primarily a human rights report. the opinion of neither foreign affairs nor human rights was sought on this. we have had no opportunity to amend it. it is a human rights report going through development. it is not within that committee’s remit. it is not just a question of the government of india, it is a question of procedure. how can we have a report going through plenary without a vote or an opportunity to amend it when the committees with the main responsibilities for the issue have never seen the report, have never had an opportunity to correct factual inaccuracies? it is not factually correct! (applause)
mr president, as a negotiator on this report in the development committee, i recognise the point made by my colleague mr tannock, because if we have a human rights sub-committee, this report should have gone to that committee for comment. it only went through the development committee, but it should have gone to the human rights sub-committee because this is fundamentally a human rights report. therefore i recommend that we send the report back to committee and ask the sub-committee on human rights of the foreign affairs committee to give an opinion on it. (applause)
mr president, speaking as chair of the saarc delegation, i recognise that this is a very delicate report. however, we also have to recognise that there are factual inaccuracies in here. for procedural reasons, this report was approved in the committee on development on 19 december 2006 and the deadline was 15 january 2007. most of the intervening period was taken up by the christmas break. we have looked into the issues; we have had several meetings; we have opinions; and i would ask, as a delegation chair, that we have an opportunity to make our view heard. i would support referral back to committee. you cannot have a report without any debate or any vote. it is short-circuiting the democratic scrutiny process and i think it is important that we do credit to this house. (applause)
mr president, i have a small point concerning amendment 1, which i tabled as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the ppe-de group. that was correct, but i should have also said that the original author was professor trakatellis. i apologise to him for not including his name. i would hope that the inclusion of his authorship will encourage wider-spread approval across this house for a good amendment.
in writing. i will be supporting this report which reinforces our agreement with the republic of korea on scientific and technological cooperation. seoul is an increasingly important global industrial player and it is vital that the eu engages with this country which traditionally has been closer to the us rather than us. i presume that this agreement will cover scientific and technological research in the kaesong industrial zone jointly administered by north and south korea, and in that i am sure the republic of korea will welcome our commitment that is currently withheld by washington.
i just wanted to expand on what i said earlier regarding the way the resolution on dalits’ human rights went through the house without an opportunity to amend it, and in particular to point out a number of factual inaccuracies in the report which never came before either the foreign affairs committee or the human rights sub-committee for an opinion. i would like to protest at the way in which rule 90(4) is being used by certain members of this house. for instance, the resolution highlights the incidence of crimes against the dalits and talks about frequent heinous crimes against them, e.g. murders. well, i would like to point out that in fact the incidence of murders in india against dalits is 2.04%, whereas they constitute 14% of the population. so actually, if you are a dalit, you have a safer lifestyle than if you are somebody from one of the other castes. the resolution makes no mention of the workings of the prevention of atrocities act, which was designed to help convict those who have attacked dalits, and in addition it makes no mention of the fact that the rate of literacy, although very low for dalits, is extremely close to the national average. it does not mention that there is a national reward from the government, basically designed to eradicate untouchability, and there are cash incentives given to encourage inter-caste marriages. this report is very unbalanced; it is full of factual inaccuracies and i lament the fact, mr president, that you were not in a position to refer it back to committee, but my case rests.
in writing. the treatment of the dalits in india presents some serious human rights concerns. there should be a universal right to decent work and non-discrimination and the caste system as it currently exists in india guarantees neither of these right to dalits. as the eu and the european parliament’s very foundations are based on shared values, of which non-discrimination is a key element, then it is our duty to voice concern where we see these values being violated and these rights denied to others in third countries.
in writing. i support this report amending the fisheries partnership agreement. i particularly support the call for greater parliamentary involvement prior to any extension of the agreement. i am also glad that the development needs of coastal populations are addressed.
in writing. the eu has as part of its requirements for membership for member states that they do not exercise or have on their statute books the death penalty. it is only right that we try to promote this around the globe. it is a disgrace from the us to china, from central asia to central africa. the problem is that we exhibit a degree of hypocrisy when some executions are more acceptable than others. it is just as wrong to execute saddam hussein and timothy mcveigh, the oklahoma bomber, as ken sara-wiwo, the nigerian human rights activist, or the hundreds of victims of saddam hussein’s brutal, totalitarian regime. i can only hope that in future we oppose those barbaric public spectacles in the same way we oppose china’s executions, as now modern technology allows public executions to be replaced by execution broadcast via mobile phone.
in writing. fundamental human rights are a core part of the european union’s role and identity. as an institution of the eu, the european parliament has a duty to support efforts to spread these values outside of the borders of the union. supporting the moratorium on the death penalty sends out the message that certain human rights should be upheld universally. i particularly support the reference in the resolution to the disgraceful manner in which the execution of saddam hussein was carried out.
in writing. i strongly support this report as well as the commission green paper entitled ‘promoting healthy diets and physical activity: a european dimension for the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases’, which the report addresses. public health issues are of increasing concern in europe, and this report provides a welcome contribution. the report’s emphasis on the key role played by schools is to be welcomed, as is the call for action to be taken to address the alarming decline in the nutritional value of fruit and vegetables.
in writing. i support the report by mrs ries on promoting healthy diets and physical activity. i agree the fight against childhood obesity should be a political priority of the european union and its member states. we should take urgent steps to encourage children to enjoy a healthy lifestyle and to urge member states to increase the amount of physical education available in schools. i am glad to see the report recognises the importance and potential of food signposting systems in place in several member states. i welcome calls to the commission to research and develop a scientifically based eu-wide ‘front-of-pack nutrition labelling scheme’. i feel this is a straightforward but very effective way of encouraging people to choose healthier options. we must act urgently in informing people that their health and that of future generations is in their own hands.
in writing. i have voted in favour of the proposals on limitation periods in cross-border disputes involving injuries and fatal accidents. i believe it is essential that europe’s citizens can enjoy the freedom to travel in the european union, and be safe in the knowledge that should problems arise they will not face unnecessary constraints in getting proper legal redress across borders. this report will play a part in ensuring that. it calls for the european commission to carry out an inquiry into the effects of the existence of differing limitation periods on the internal market, and particularly on citizens exercising their freedoms under the treaty. it is important that any new legislation in this area is based on sound evidence, not least to ensure that any future law brings forward specific and focused measures to tackle the problems. i have therefore voted in favour of the wallis report, which demands that the commission bring forward the evidence to enable this law to go ahead.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to address the inequalities for women which still persist, mainly in gaining access to and obtaining higher academic qualifications, including at postgraduate level and in scientific research, and in the area of lifelong learning. there is a need to reform the content of school textbooks and to ensure that the training of educational workers be directed towards fulfilling the requirements of a balanced gender policy. i think it is important that the commission and the member states implement a policy towards national, ethnic and cultural minorities, paying particular attention to a multicultural approach and allowing access to quality education in order to avoid double discrimination. i voted in favour of this report as it has the potential to eliminate stereotypes discriminating against women in the workplace.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and welcome the fact that it calls for the banning of nuclear tests and that the pacific region should be made nuclear-free.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as the public hearing held in the committee on legal affairs on 22 june 2006 underscored the need for an european private company as a legal form for small and medium-sized undertakings engaged in cross-border business. in order to consolidate the single market and thereby achieve the desired improvement in the economic and social conditions in the community, one clear priority is the elimination of barriers to trade.
mr president, may i enquire why you have not made use of rule 156 of the rules of procedure in relation to the reports from the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners? given the extraordinarily large number of amendments tabled, it would be appropriate to make use of a rule that was tailor-made for this sort of situation. rule 156 was added to the rules of procedure in the reform three years ago in order to provide a filter when we are faced with a very long voting time. this would enable the committee concerned to vote and to see which amendments have a sufficient degree of support to merit this house’s time being used up in voting on them. all those amendments that have almost no support would be filtered out and save the rest of us an enormous amount of time.
in that case, mr president, i just wonder when on earth we would ever make use of that rule. it was added to the rules precisely to save the time of this house in this sort of situation. i must express my surprise at the decision of the conference of presidents.
mr president, i think the answer is easy: rule 156 gives complete discretion to the president of our house. if he chooses to reconvene the committee at a special meeting tomorrow to filter the amendments so that we here only need to vote on those that get more than 10% support, then he is free to do so under rule 156. rule 156 gives the president enormous power in this respect, even if the conference of presidents disagrees with him.
mr president, this is the third time i have taken the opportunity to use a one-minute speech to bring to the attention of this house the fact that another poultry-processing factory in northern ireland has closed with a substantial loss of jobs. it seems to me that we are continuing to lose jobs within the european union. we are allowing cheap poultry meat to be imported into the european union, produced at lower standards than those imposed on our farmers and our processors within the european union, and putting our own people out of jobs. in my opinion we are also risking the health of the people of the european union because this poultry meat imported into the european union does not meet the same high standards that we expect here. there is a lot more i could say on this. it seems that we continue to ignore the dangers of this, and i have to warn this house that we do so at our peril if we put our people, farmers and workers at risk. the commission must investigate this and try to put a stop to it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by caroline jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste (com(2005)0667 – c6-0009/2006 – 2005/0281(cod)) (a6-0466/2006)– the report by johannes blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on a thematic strategy on the recycling of waste (2006/2175(ini) (a6-0438/2006).
rapporteur. – madam president, it is nice to see you in the chair! this directive is a very important successor to the first framework directive and it dates me because i can remember the 1975 waste framework directive going through parliament. people were rather surprised to find europe dealing with waste at all at that time. given the likely longevity of such a measure, it is important that we get it right. we do not want a repeat, as the commissioner has said, of what happened recently where recourse to the european court of justice for clarification has sometimes produced judgments that are confusing, contradictory and just plain bizarre. legislators, not judges, should make laws. first of all this is a directive which is very important in defining terms. the commission has produced a number of definitions, which we have amended and added to. many of these changes were the subject of general agreement in the committee in compromise amendments. i make no apology for believing that this plenary stage offers us the chance to fine tune these suggestions, as i and others have done. for example, in the committee we failed to find a definition of by-products, which is a vital issue. i think parliament should have a proposal to vote on and so i have submitted an amendment for a new article 3a defining by-products. the same sort of gap affects the issue of bio-waste. secondly, we have spent much time defining the waste hierarchy. this is often referred to, but until now has not been defined in any eu legal text. the committee preferred the five-stage waste hierarchy to the commission’s rather muddled, flatter version. the problem is how to establish that the hierarchy should not be used as a rigid requirement, but should be seen as a flexible but general principle. the committee opted for life-cycle assessment and cost-benefit analyses as the essential background to any departure from the hierarchy. i believe that to be too bureaucratic, and a ppe-de amendment proposes a more realistic, but still demanding, alternative. thirdly, we grappled with the issue of how one defines when waste ceases to be a waste. this gave us the opportunity to indicate through this directive which items should be given priority by the commission, if necessary by drawing up specifications to define when they cease to be waste. we proposed seven items, but did not support a proposal that solid recovered fuel should be on the list. in the view of the committee that remains waste. finally, there is the question of the energy efficiency criteria, which, if met by a particular energy from a waste plant, would allow that plant to be categorised as a recovery and not a disposal operation. this seems to me an eminently sensible idea. such a designation has environmental and commercial advantages. the criteria for designation as a recovery operation need to be high enough to be something of a gold standard, which, if adopted, would mean that anyone thinking of buying or building a new incinerator would have to meet it. the committee adopted an amendment accepting the principle that energy from waste could qualify as recovery, but they moved the definition from the annex into article 19. such a move creates problems. it would mean that compliance with the formula became a permanent requirement, possibly leading to the immediate compulsory closure of all non-compliant plants, which would be an absurd development. in the light of this, the ppe-de group and other groups have tabled amendments to put the formula back where it belongs, in the annex. although this is a directive that mainly defines terms, we felt it should address the issue of waste prevention. it is no good the eu being a world leader in waste terminology if it continues to be a world leader in waste generation. i am therefore proud that, at my suggestion, parliament’s amendments contain for the first time a proposal for an eu commitment to stabilise overall waste production by 2012 at the levels which it reached in 2008. given that the volume of waste the eu produces is increasing every year, this is an important first step and i do hope that the commission and member states will support it. i have two comments on amendments from colleagues. i note that some colleagues want eu-wide recycling targets. i think this is a mistake. recycling is an important practice that each country has to tackle in its own way within the overall imperative of the landfill directive and its reduction targets. apart from anything else we need to establish the carbon efficiency of recycling before we promote it as the best answer to our waste problems. i note that some members want to restrict what can be landfilled on the basis that this is what works in their own country and that this allows them to have good recycling and low landfill figures. well, they need to talk to their eastern european neighbours. they complain now that they are receiving huge amounts of german waste. whatever else it means, recycling does not mean throwing your waste over the national boundary fence and hoping for the best. i hope that we can soon make progress on this directive with the council, but the recent history of waste directives teaches us that it is better to get it right than to rush to early adoption.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteurs mrs jackson and mr blokland for all their work on this, because the verts/ale group was very disappointed in the commission’s proposal. instead of moving ahead to focus on prevention, reuse and recycling, it was in fact a step backwards: a worrying combination of no action or targets on preventing, reusing and recycling, plenty of legal loopholes for unscrupulous operators and the promotion of incineration, sending out completely the wrong message. we had very good cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs leading up to the committee vote and we agreed on many compromise amendments and although it did not go as far as we wanted, it moved the proposal ahead to such an extent that the verts/ale group withdrew our amendment rejecting the commission proposal outright. our group could vote for the report tomorrow if this parliament upholds the position of the committee on environment, public health and food safety but i fear that will not be the case. the basis of the whole waste strategy must be the binding five-step waste hierarchy of prevention, reuse, recycling, recovery and disposal. it is essential to have national prevention programmes with europe-wide measures and targets. prevention has been talked about an awful lot since the first directive back in 1975 but we have seen very little action and we have heard many excuses for not doing it. that is why we welcome the target of stabilisation of waste by 2012. it is not as far as we would like to go; it is weaker than our original proposal; but we will accept that to ensure that prevention programmes with binding targets do come forward. we also support eu-wide recycling targets. a 50% recycling level for municipal waste and 70% for construction, demolition, industrial and manufacturing waste by 2020 is perfectly achievable and realistic. and as everything cannot and should not be included in this one framework directive, we also want the commission to bring forward proposals on specific waste streams before the end of 2008, and, in the case of biodegradable waste, by the end of 2007. but the key issue for us in this directive is incineration. reclassifying waste incineration as energy recovery would completely undermine measures on preventing and recycling. yes, we have to move away from landfill, that is a legal obligation already. but incineration is not the answer. it is blatantly contradictory to endorse a five-step hierarchy and then upgrade and give incentives to the lowest level of that hierarchy. a recent report showed that incineration is not green energy or safe waste disposal. we should not participate in the ‘greenwashing’ of incineration.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – a uachtaráin, caithfidh mé m'iontas agus mo dhíomá a chur in iúl faoin dóigh ar chuir an rapóirtéir bean jackson a oiread sin leasuithe ar bord a athraíonn agus a thagann salach ar na leasuithe comhréiteacha a ndearna sí féin idirbheartaíocht orthu linn uilig mar scáth-thuairisceoir agus scáthrapóirtéir. bhain comhthoil mhór le gach leasú comhréitigh ag an vóta ar an choiste um chomhshaol, um shláinte phoiblí agus um shábháilteacht bia. le vóta deiridh an choiste ar théacs thuarascáil bhean jackson, bhí 48 i bhfabhar, 6 in éadan agus dhá staonadh. tá sé doiligh le tuiscint mar sin, conas is féidir le bean jackson a oiread sin leasuithe a chur ar bord don seisiún iomlánach, rud a bhriseann an chomhthoil seo. tá sé doiligh le tuiscint cad é an cineál údaráis atá sí ag iarraidh dá hobair leis na hinstitiúidí eile sna seachtainí atá romhainn. chuir mo ghrúpa gue/ngl leasuithe chun tosaigh maidir le hathchúrsáil ar 50% ar a laghad de dhramháil in-bhith-dhíghrádaithe, úsáid a bhaint as an dlíeolaíocht atá ann anois chun dul i ngleic le hiarrachtaí an choimisiúin loisceoirí cathrach a athbhrandáil mar athghabháil, ag cinntiú nach dtéann ábhar in-athúsáidte nó in-athchúrsáilte i líonadh talún nó isteach i loisceoir, athchúrsáil agus córas bailiúcháin scartha a chur chun cinn agus comhfhiosrú a dhéanamh ar an mhéid dramhaíola a dhéantar sa chéad dul síos. ba mhaith linne béim a fheiceáil go príomha ar chosc dramhaíola agus ansin ar athúsáid agus athchúrsáil. tá sé tábhachtach nach féidir loisceoirí cathrach a athbhrandáil mar athghabháil. chun sin a stopadh, iarraim ar fheisirí vótáil go háirithe ar son leasuithe 83, 156, 166 agus 179. gan spriocanna, ar leibhéal an aontais eorpaigh d'athchúrsáil, tá an chontúirt ann go mbeidh brú ar bhallstáit gabháil chuig loscadh amháin agus neamhaird a dhéanamh de chliarlathas an chúig chéim is fearr. tá contúirt ann go háirithe go mbeadh drochthaifead athchúrsála ag ballstáit a bheidh ag iarraidh an riachtanas don treoir líonta talún a chomhlíonadh. ní leor an cliarlathas dramhaíola amháin chun cosc a chur air seo. iarraim ar fheisirí vótáil ar son spriocanna éifeachtacha athchúrsála fosta. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh thuarascáil blokland maidir le straitéis théamach ar athchúrsáil dramhaíola agus buíochas a ghabháil leis an rapóirtéir as a chuid oibre.
mr president, the commission’s thematic strategy document is strong on identifying the problems: waste volumes continuing to grow, the potential for waste prevention and recycling not being fully used, illegal cross-border waste shipments increasing and so on. but, as ever, the answer from brussels seems to be more legislation. would it not be more sensible to review the existing laws and make them work before adding new layers of legislation? if legislation is being poorly implemented, if there are different approaches to solving the waste problem, if current wording causes differing interpretations, what will be usefully added by putting in new laws without first streamlining, and ensuring implementation of, the existing legislation? we hear much talk in this house and from the commission about the simplification of regulation but, frankly, so far little of substance has happened. similarly, on illegal cross-border shipments of waste, it is vital that the waste source is identified and the ‘polluter pays’ principle rigorously enforced. in my constituency in northern ireland, we are afflicted with illegal dumping of waste from our neighbour in the republic of ireland. it can and must do more to stop those illegal shipments and it must pay for the damage that has been done. finally, the export of waste from the eu to developing countries for processing involving methods far less sustainable than those within the eu is something which i think we really need to address. on top of that, the carbon footprint of those exports makes that a practice which should be reversed.
mr president, here we see one of the few cases where this parliament is asked for real legislative input as part of a codecision procedure. mrs jackson has duly compiled the report but, not content with that, parliament throws in mr blokland’s report as well, an own-initiative report with no legislative relevance, and the subject – waste! how much paper was wasted printing this report? however, at least it gives me the chance to point out the difference between ukip and british conservatives. as a ukip mep, i can stand up for my country even when i have to disagree with a group colleague to do so. i believe my own country is capable and responsible in matters of waste and should be free to enforce its own legislation. the british tories are not free to criticise eu enthusiasts within their own group, the epp – the group their leader promised to leave. that is bad enough. but, worse still, they even write the epp’s europhile reports for them. witness mrs jackson when she says you must absolutely resist the member states and the commission in their efforts to keep the comitology process closed. naturally, i am with her as far as the commission goes, but the member states? a british tory talking about resolutely resisting the member states? this is the true face of british conservatives. mrs jackson’s husband famously left them for labour. these days they are probably too europhile even for him.
mr president, this debate is not really about women in turkey. turkey had a female head of government 14 years ago. eighteen of the 27 members of the eu have not yet reached this landmark. yet that does not stop this chamber from hectoring ankara about women’s political representation. no, this report is really about turkey’s membership bid. it demands, for example, that kurdish women’s groups be explicitly recognised as such: a deliberate provocation to ankara, which has long maintained that all turkish citizens are equal before the constitution. once again the bar is being set higher for turkey than for any past applicant. we hector the turks in the most importunate manner about cyprus, about the status of minorities, about the armenian massacre. we damn them either way. if they repress signs of islamic devotion, we call them authoritarian. if they do not, we call them fundamentalists. the truth is that there are many in this house who are determined, in gladstone’s infamous phrase, to ‘turn the turk, bag and baggage, out of europe’. their real concern is not about human rights. it is that the accession of a populous, proud and assertive muslim country would retard their dream of a federation, of a country called europe. although i do not share their position, i recognise that it is a legitimate point of view. but it would have been better for all concerned had brussels been honest, had it said ‘no’ at the outset and then settled down to work out an amicable bilateral relationship. instead we shall string turks along for perhaps another ten or fifteen years, wring painful concessions from them on foreign and domestic policy, force them to assimilate tens of thousands of pages of the acquis communautaire and then, only then, turn them away. this is no way to treat an allied nation, colleagues, a nation that guarded europe’s flags for a half a century against the totalitarianism of the soviet union and whom we may look to one day to do the same against the totalitarianism of the religious fanatics. turks are as entitled as any other people to their pride. by abusing them in this manner the eu risks creating the very thing it purports to fear: the rise of anti-western sentiment among a people who have long been our friends.
mr president, you are going to hear more about whisky – but the one without the ‘e’, the scottish variety! i have been slightly surprised at the ferocity of the attacks by some of my colleagues on this system. it is clear that there is a serious and more subtle threat to airport security than we have ever faced and that the screening of hand baggage needs to be made as easy as possible. as the commissioner rightly said, liquid explosives can be disguised as very innocuous substances, and a patchwork of 27 separate regulations would have been unacceptable. i therefore support the initiative he took in introducing these measures but, as he rightly says, these measures can be improved and need to be examined in the light of experience. i would like to follow on from what mr ó neachtain and mrs doyle have said about duty free in transit from third countries. many scots have returned to the uk via frankfurt airport, schiphol airport and other airports and had the duty free they had bought as presents confiscated at the airport. that is unacceptable. as has been said, it has had a serious impact on the sale of duty free – 12% in eu duty free shops, 40% in some of the third-country duty free shops. scottish whisky uses duty free as a shop window for its sales and does so very successfully. this process has hurt eu companies and it is undermining the confidence of consumers in duty free. i would like to suggest a very simple solution, as did mrs doyle, i.e. that we try and encourage third countries to adopt the tamper-evident bags that we use for duty free inside the european union. i would argue that this does not undermine european union security and, indeed, can enhance it if we encourage our third-country partners to improve their security at airports by adopting this system. if we have mutual recognition this will ease flows within airports and prevent a lot of the personal grief that is created around this issue. i hope the commission will look seriously at this and consider entering into immediate bilateral agreements with suitable third countries such as the us, canada, australia, hong kong and others.
mr president, i expect the commissioner is ushered through the vip lounge in the airport and does not have to suffer what we and our constituents have to suffer, which is long queues and half an hour waiting, as i had this morning, crammed into a small area with 800 constituents and valued visitors to my country. pre-security would have been the ideal target for a terrorist, not the plane afterwards. i will have the same experience on thursday evening when i go to frankfurt airport to try and go home. there will be another crammed, congested situation. that is a dangerous by-product of what has been achieved with these regulations. it is the same in every airport in europe. it is probably the same in airports throughout the world now: congestion, inconvenience, costs, indignity, journeys foregone, tourists and businesspeople who just do not come our way any more. you have heard about third-country duty-free sales from my irish colleagues and my colleague david martin from scotland. there has been a major reduction in the sale of our prized high-value products – french, as well as scottish and irish, i may say. perhaps, ultimately, money will talk. what about purchases made in the eu but not in airports? you might get that special whisky or that special wine in a shop in bordeaux or edinburgh. you can no longer take that back in your hand luggage: you have to pack it in your hold luggage and it is probably broken on the way home. what about the olive oil from italy? this is an infringement on the free movement of goods. i should like to ask the commissioner to start negotiations with the icao so that globally we can have at least a common rule for the movement of goods around the world, like we used to have.
mr president, i realise that many of my colleagues who have taken the floor are primarily concerned with the procedural issues and they are quite right in that. however, like some others, i should like to concentrate on the consequences of the implementation of the aviation security regulations after 6 november, which have particularly affected, among the other areas already mentioned, my own region of northern ireland. i have received a large number of complaints from constituents who have had their duty-free goods confiscated as they transited through eu airports on their way home back to belfast in northern ireland. this is primarily a problem for transit passengers coming from third countries; the people from my constituency have suffered tremendously simply because, when they are flying back to northern ireland from outside europe, they have to come through some other airport within europe, be it heathrow, schiphol or even frankfurt, before they make their way home – we do not have direct flights as other areas do. another issue that concerns me as a northern ireland mep is the fact that there has been, as i have learnt, a considerable drop in duty-free sales airside from third countries, and certainly as one of northern ireland’s oldest and most prestigious products is a whiskey called bushmills – mr martin would like to hear that, i am sure! – a considerable amount of which is sold worldwide in duty-free shops. any drop in the sales of that will affect the economy and jobs back home. i am sure you understand that very well, commissioner, because your own country equally suffers from the continued drop in sales of prestige french products, such as perfume, champagne and wine. i would urge you, commissioner, to draw up a list of non-eu countries whose airport security would be as good as that of the eu and negotiate bilateral agreements directly with them, ending this farcical situation of confiscating duty-free purchases at airports.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, your experience in this house since direct elections in 1979 has qualified you well and has given you a rare sense of perspective for the post you occupy. i congratulate you on your speech this morning. you have seen the european union grow from 9 countries in the 1970s to 12 in the 1980s, 15 in the 1990s, 25 and then 27 in this decade, with a queue of countries waiting to join. you have seen the treaty of rome supplemented by the single european act, the treaties of maastricht, amsterdam and nice, and now the draft constitutional treaty, as the common market has been enhanced with a single market, a single currency and policies in justice and home affairs, foreign and security arrangements and now energy. you have also seen – as have some others of us of more recent vintage – a profound change in what the european union is all about. it is no longer a union to guarantee peace and security of food supply, but a union which has to be capable of meeting the three big challenges we face: rapid world population growth and migration, energy resources and climate change, and internationally organised crime linked to terrorism. hitherto, the drive for the building of this union has come from within. increasingly, it comes from beyond our borders and the response of our institutions has been uncertain. there is a malaise affecting our union which has led to squabbling between the member states, who, in the name of preserving national sovereignty, are too often giving free rein to global anarchy; and squabbling between our institutions, which turns our citizens cold, like different denominations of the church, arguing about substantiation rather than asking why nobody comes to church any more. mr poettering, you have the opportunity to lead this house at a time when it is increasingly becoming the dynamo of european integration. it is increasingly to the european parliament that europeans must look: a house resurgent and outspoken, holding the council and the member states to account when their action against terrorism rides roughshod over the rights we cherish; forging consensus – which escapes the commission – on the single market in services or on consumer protection measures; working with national parliaments to scrutinise the executive, ensuring the law is respected. in short, this house is coming of age. ideology has surpassed nationality as the main determinant of voting behaviour. it is true that this house does not yet possess a right of initiative or the right to propose the president of the commission, but neither is now unthinkable and increasingly people believe that both would enhance our union’s culture of democracy. therefore, mr poettering, i hope that you will use your two and a half years to grasp the need for reform of this house; to give us a parliament better equipped to provide such leadership; a house that meets in full session every week; a house that concentrates on profound political choices rather than voting on hundreds of amendments to move semi-colons; a house that uses its new powers of scrutiny to the full to recall and re-examine our laws. when you were first elected, this parliament was a consultative assembly, designed to give a pro forma cover to decisions taken by bureaucrats and diplomats. now it is a cornerstone of our european home. in 13 years of codecision, that one function has developed the organs of this body, and transparency has given oxygen to our bloodstreams. i should like to say to chancellor merkel that codecision is now needed in all areas of policy-making if the checks and balances of democracy are to work at european level. the fact is that the union makes decisions that are binding on member states without proper democratic or judicial control, exposing us to censure by the court of human rights or the constitutional courts. we had a close shave when the german constitutional court examined the framework decision on the european arrest warrant and came very close to contesting its legitimacy. if the german government, which blocked the use of the passerelle clause in article 42 just a few months ago, really wants to promote democracy in europe, you will recognise the imperative of qualified majority voting in the council and codecision with the european parliament as a basis for all law-making, otherwise in your time at the helm you risk looking like the mime artist, marcel marceau, appearing to climb a wall but actually going nowhere. mr president, the years 1914 to 1989 on our continent were a 75-year rage of self-mutilation. this year, with bulgaria and romania in our union, we can put to rest the ghosts of that period. however, the roots of freedom lie in courage. i believe there is a german word ‘zivilcourage’: you, chancellor merkel and president barroso need to muster the collective courage to take our union forward as a true democracy, to create what winston churchill called in 1945 ‘a wider patriotism’ and a common citizenship for the distraught people of this turbulent and powerful continent. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, i should just like to bring to the attention of the house a technical amendment that we should make pursuant to rule 155. in the commission’s proposal there was a technical omission under article 2, dealing with the transposition of the proposal. the exact date for the transposition in the member states is missing. therefore i propose under rule 155 to add ‘[18 months after the date of publication]’ as the date for transposition. this should be specified. i should like to propose that to members as a technical amendment.
a uachtaráin, ar an drochuair bhí meancóg cló ag 183 nuair a chuireamar isteach é agus ní fhacamar é go dtí an bomaite deireanach. in ionad na dátaí 2012 - 2015 ba chóir go mbeadh na dátaí 2009 - 2012, in (a) agus (b). tá mé buartha faoin mheancóg. i am sorry, there was a tabling error here. the tabling office is aware of it. instead of the dates ‘2012 – 2015’ there should have been the dates ‘2009 – 2012’ in (a) and (b). mar sin de ba mhaith liom leasú béil a mholadh faoin mheancóg cló a leasú in 183.
in writing. i support the hercule ii programme and the work it is carrying out for the prevention, detection and combating of activities damaging the community's financial interests. the type of fraud combated under the programme must be tackled in order to retain the tax base of member states.
in writing. i support the amendments put forward by this report as the european parliament’s budgetary function is vital to maintaining democratic scrutiny at the european level. i especially support the amendments aimed at improving the comparison between the political will expressed in parliament’s remarks on the budget and the actual implementation.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it will create a waste management policy that will help us meet our objective of reducing waste and protecting our environment. we need to protect the environment at an eu level and this report represents an attempt to do this. the report meets the priorities i feel we should have for our environment of reducing the production of non-reusable or non-recyclable waste, making producers and importers responsible for waste, avoiding the reclassification of energy recovery incinerators for waste disposal and introducing a requirement to develop national waste prevention programmes.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of the jackson report on waste. it is important that we avoid burying ourselves under the proliferation of packaging consumer society imposes on us. i am in favour of recycling to the maximum practical level, but that is not enough. we must limit the amount of waste generated before recycling. however much we try, there will be material requiring disposal. provided that it is kept to the minimum practical level, i have no problem if some of that material is burnt. i have visited in germany chp schemes based on waste incineration which are to be commended. we will help our planet and our future by utilising a variety of measures and not by making one scheme fit all.
in writing. i welcome this report in tackling the eu waste problem. i am pleased that a legally binding stabilisation target has been introduced for waste prevention. i am also pleased that there has been no weakening of the principle of the five-stage 'hierarchy of waste': prevention and reduction of waste, re-use of waste, recycling of waste (less than a third of waste is recycled today), other recovery operations and, finally, the safe and environmentally sound disposal of waste.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as i believe we should create a waste management policy that will reduce waste and protect our environment. i believe the basis of the eu waste policy should be the protection of the environment and not to facilitate the trade of waste. the ‘polluter pays’ principle, the principle of producer responsibility in the eu waste legislation as well as the implementation of concrete targets for prevention are important aspects of this report that i favour.
in writing. the proposal for a separate directive on sewage sludge, a revision of the waste incinerator directive and proposals on waste prevention should be welcomed.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues support the accession of turkey to the european union. we also believe it is important that turkey, as with all other candidate countries, must fulfil the copenhagen criteria. however, this report seems to set the barrier of membership of turkey at a higher level than other states. we cannot support treating turkey differently and less favourably than other candidate states. of course, turkey must also ensure it will abide by the copenhagen criteria with regard to the rights of women and girls. we have decided to abstain on this report as we are concerned that the long list of demands in it will be used politically by those opposed to turkey’s membership of the eu. by the same token, we want to make clear that we are supportive of genuine attempts to improve the position of women in turkey.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this report as it seeks to evaluate and suggest measures to evolve women's rights in turkey. cooperation with turkish authorities and civil society is needed in order to improve women's rights and the report suggests this. in particular, in light of the country's candidacy for eu membership, respecting human rights, including women's rights must be made a priority. there are persistent problems with women's rights such as: violence against women, including honour crimes; lack of education for women and girls; the decrease in women's participation in the labour market. i am pleased to support a report which recognises the need to address these issues and gives concrete suggestions for how we can achieve this.
in writing. the start of talks with turkey on eu accession should be welcomed. however, the rights of women need to be closely monitored. the case of girls in south-east turkey not being registered at birth needs to be challenged. all births should be officially registered regardless of gender. as for women in politics, more work could be done to encourage, nurture and help women into elected office. however, we should remember that in the eu there are still countries whose female representation in national politics falls short of the mark. in the uk, it will take 200 years before women are equally represented in the house of commons. we must do all that we can to address gender inequalities where they occur.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, eu growth in 2006 hit 2.7 % – the highest in six years. unemployment is at its lowest since 1998, at 7.9 %. one is tempted to say, ‘well done!’, but that 2.7 % growth has to be measured against 9.5 % in china and india, and our 7.9 % unemployment rate against under 5 % in the united states and 4.1 % in japan. in this light, the lisbon goal of making europe the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010 sounds not only ambitious but unrealistic. we have already dropped the target date. can we maintain the target? well, we hold this debate annually; some member states perennially ignore our exhortations. the kok report told us two years ago that the objectives of lisbon have become muddled and the results are unconvincing. it is because some member states have tried to muddle through instead of reforming their ways. lisbon will only work if reform is made europe-wide. solidarity cannot mean those governments who have gone through the tough process of reform now having to bail out those who have not. in some countries, even the opposition does not see the need for reform; it makes promises to citizens which cannot be kept and, i am tempted to say:"on pourrait dire que l'on se fiche royalement de la réalité." a knowledge-based economy needs a willingness to learn. we in europe can learn from each other. economic growth and low unemployment, a dynamic business environment and high social standards are not mutually exclusive – look at denmark or finland. the way to modernise social protection and benefit systems is to bring in more flexibility. youth unemployment is far too high, but protecting our citizens does not mean that we have to protect uncompetitive jobs. the social safety net should not prop up failing businesses, but help those affected to reintegrate into new business opportunities. my group believes, too, that investing in green technologies is key to containing climate change and catering for energy security in europe. energy is literally the driving force of our economy, and, as our energy ministers meet this week in brussels, they must rise to the challenge and have the courage to open up the energy sector to greater competition and flexibility, not just separating infrastructure from supply. building a true european energy market is important but not sufficient: we also need to cut energy consumption, and i hope the commission will be even more ambitious in future than it has been. we have got to create incentives for individuals to change their habits and make thoughtful purchases and investments through using the tax system. we also have to deliver proper implementation of european legislation, letting our citizens know what needs to be done, and member states have to live up to their promises of economic reform so that we can give the green light to lisbon.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, so often in politics it is not what is said in public but what is going on in secret behind the scenes that really matters, and so it is here with this forthcoming european summit. the german minister for european affairs, mr gloser, may talk about sustainability and energy policy – although i have to say that how he keeps a straight face when he talks about the already failed lisbon agenda is quite beyond me. however, what he does not talk about, of course, is the fact that this summit will discuss the european constitution. chancellor merkel has made it clear that she is determined to press on and, in fact, this very week in berlin discussions about the constitution are going on in secret. once again, a great deception is being attempted. you are trying to cobble together a mini-treaty, getting rid of the 'c' word and thereby denying the peoples of europe the opportunity to vote on their own future. it is as if you all have some higher calling and know what is good for the ordinary plebs of europe. you might think i am making it all up, but just last week president barroso said: ‘as a prime minister i was in favour of a referendum [on the constitution]’. since then he has come to brussels and they have clearly spiked his drinks, because now he is saying: ‘if there had been a referendum on the founding of the european community or the implementation of the euro, do you think these would have existed?’ i think we know the answer and the answer is ‘no’. in daring even to say that, what mr barroso does is to expose the european project. he shows absolute contempt for the people of france and holland who voted ‘no’ but, more seriously, he shows absolute contempt for the very process of democracy itself. if you push on relentlessly with this constitution, if you go on denying the peoples of europe a say in their future, you are storing up very serious problems for our children.
mr president, i have only a short time, so, as both joint rapporteur on this subject and a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i should like to do something we do not do often enough: focus on some of the social, social cohesion and employment aspects of lisbon. under the heading ‘creating employment and opportunity’, our resolution underlines the need for a balanced approach to flexicurity. we agree with flexibility for enterprises, but also with the necessary degree of security for working people. for too many millions of our fellow citizens, flexicurity is seen as a threat. we have to make it an opportunity. we urge those member states so far lacking effort to cooperate with social partners and do much more to create employment and raise the labour market participation rate of the young, female and older workers. specifically, we ask them to ensure that every school-leaver is offered a job, training or other employability measure within six months; to provide wider access to training for the unemployed, particularly for the least-qualified; to raise investment in comprehensive and affordable childcare, to further reduce the tax burden on employment; to combat social exclusion and discrimination; to invest further in education, professional training and lifelong learning so as to boost the union’s skills base; to improve the match between the educational system and the needs of the new labour markets, including entrepreneurship in educational curricula; and, finally, to allow older workers to remain in the labour force on a voluntary basis and modify tax and social security systems to encourage a longer active working life. these ideas are as old as the lisbon strategy itself. all we need is for member states to act on them. finally, i would also underline the need for both the council and the commission to break the current deadlock in employment and social policy. the current lisbon policy mix is seriously unbalanced. if we are to reconnect with our citizens, we need to restore that balance in favour of social and employment policy.
mr president, i am glad we accept in this resolution that the lisbon agenda is not only based on economics but has a social dimension as well. with that in mind, it is important that we bring those excluded from the labour market into employment by making sure the 2000 employment framework directive is implemented equally across all member states. it is just as important that we continue to call for specific directives on age and disability, because if people cannot get to work, then they cannot even take the employment if they are offered it. i also welcome the section on better regulation, but i would have liked to have seen it include a reference to sunset clauses on all legislation. finally, proposed health and safety legislation should be based on up-to-date scientific and medical evidence. i call also for everyone to vote for my amendment on the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking.
mr president, i do not think you will be surprised to hear that, as the coordinator for my group on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to address in particular the issues concerning the future strategy for the single market. i know, mr president-in-office, that you will be receiving a strategy paper from the commission to discuss. we have not had a chance to see that yet, but all i can say is that i hope it is a bold paper because we have a lot of work to do. i particularly address you as president-in-office of the council because i want to draw your attention to the heading of a whole section in this resolution: ‘removal of persisting internal market deficits’. that is aimed squarely at members of the council. the commission is working very hard to do that, but the fact remains that the internal market is a shared responsibility. we can do so much in this house and we have done a lot on the services directive, the prime example recently, but a lot more is needed as well. we are about to consider, under the leadership of my colleague mr stubb, the whole question of free movement of goods in non-harmonised areas. that will be an important proposal as well, but we must have your engagement and commitment to work on it. i had the privilege a few weeks ago – mrs ayala sender is also a member of the committee and she mentioned it just now – of being rapporteur for our interparliamentary meeting, where we had parliamentarians from across the member states talking about the internal market. what was interesting was the primacy that they placed on the four freedoms that mr stubb just mentioned and how they need help to be able to defend those in their parliaments against their own governments. there is a suggestion sometimes that it is all too easy to blame the internal market for job losses or for encouraging more competition that is bad for consumers and for economies, but in fact the single market is absolutely at the centre of our response to global pressures. as somebody from one of the national parliaments said at our meeting, the internal market is crucial because it gives strength in depth to the whole of the lisbon strategy. i ask you as president-in-office of the council to put that on your agenda, to get your fellow ministers to really start taking the internal market and its transposition seriously, and to engage your citizens and your parliamentarians with that challenge.
mr president, i think it would be very difficult to underestimate the importance of this spring summit, because it comes before the berlin declaration, which is going to explain how and why the european union is relevant to the world, in essence relaunching the european union. it comes before further reflection on future reform of the european union itself. so i would like to echo what commissioner wallström said, i.e. that this spring council has got to show how the european union can deliver for its citizens, because before you talk about fine institutional matters you have got to talk about how you deliver. i think if we fail to deliver action at this summit, this is going to undermine all the plans of the german presidency. i think we need to deliver action, as has been said, on completing the internal market. there are simply too many gaps which affect ordinary citizens who want to travel and to work in other member states – even things like registering a motor vehicle in a number of member states. we have to deliver on the subject of better regulation in order to improve the rights of consumers and improve the business atmosphere. we have to carry through a commitment to cut the cost of red tape by 25%. in particular we have got to follow through on the ten fast-track practical proposals presented by the commission. on action and energy, we have to fulfil existing agreements on energy liberalisation. we have to have a competitive energy market and that involves unbundling and strengthening the power of regulators. i would hope the german government, as opposed to the german presidency, will be taking a lead in this area. we need to take action on climate change. we have to take a global lead but we can only do that if we have action to reduce our own emissions, to cut our use of carbon and to make the emissions trading scheme much more effective and much more watertight.
the commissioner will be aware of reports saying that the european commission has paid millions of euros in bank charges in order to bypass the hamas-led administration in palestine. in the interests of the transparency he claims that the commission is in favour of in relation to the banking sector, will he publish why the commission has run up such large charges and which banks these charges have been paid to?
commissioner, still on the question of unethical bank charges, could i ask you what you feel about the exorbitant fees charged by some banks for cross-border money transfers into the eurozone? for example, it costs up to ten times more for a british person to transfer money to a eurozone bank, which is obviously just at the touch of a computer button. do you agree that this is exorbitant and do you think the whole question of cross-border money transfer needs some regulation to be consistent with the principle of free movement of capital within the eu?
thank you, commissioner. it sounds as if you are going to get a lot of information. however, are you going to issue some guidelines to secure more consistent application? because it seems to me at the moment that we have the worst of all worlds: no level playing field for businesses, and therefore different costs; and no consistent consumer protection, for instance on whether or not the right of customers to obtain access to information under the data protection directive is being overridden by the tipping-off provisions under anti-money-laundering laws, and whether banks are slipping in commercially useful questions under the cover of ‘know your customer’ principles. i appreciate what you are doing, but why not issue some guidelines, which would go some way to getting some consistency? otherwise there is going to be even more of a mess when the third anti-money-laundering directive is implemented.
firstly, let me congratulate you, commissioner, on your persistence and doggedness in getting these talks back on track almost from beyond the grave. while you have rightly concentrated on market access for agricultural products, non-agricultural products and services, do you accept that this might also be the time to launch an aid-for-trade initiative to connect the developing countries you have talked about to the global trading system? many of them, as you have rightly said, fear that opening up their markets would be a one-way process of importing more, but not necessarily exporting more. to reassure them, should we not do more to assist them in terms of their ability to trade in the global trading system?
madam president, i continue to oppose this regulation for five reasons that are important to my constituency. firstly, voluntary modulation by its very nature amounts to a snatch and grab of farmers’ resources by national governments. there is nothing voluntary about it. secondly, it accentuates inequality across europe and distorts the market, with only the united kingdom, it seems, committed to fleecing its farmers through voluntary modulation. compulsory modulation is bad enough, but at least it is evenly spread. thirdly, unlike the previous scheme, this proposal does not compel member states to produce matching funding so, in reality, in my constituency, the anti-farming uk government will not produce such funding. the result is a double deficit to uk farmers, extra top-slicing of their single farm payment and no matching funding from the exchequer into the rural economy. fourthly, it stifles essential local variation by prohibiting regional approaches, something which the outgoing scheme permits. both pillar one and pillar two policies are in the main devolved matters within the united kingdom, hence the logic of permitting local variation in the modulation rates. fifthly and finally, the commission proposal continues to have a franchise provision which allows some to escape paying, leaving others to have to pay more. so, for those reasons, just as i voted against this tawdry regulation in november, i will do so again.
madam president, i think the commissioner now finds herself between a rock and a hard place. commissioner, you know very well you do not like the council proposal, and you know that, under the institutional agreements, you have to put it forward. now, we are listening to what you are saying, but we dislike the voluntary modulation intensely, so we are waiting for a new proposal to come forward. i think the best way we can deal with this is to get on with it, to reject it again and for you to come forward with a proposal very quickly, because we are all interested in rural development but we are also interested in a level playing field. on the point that mr allister made, this is not voluntary modulation to all those farmers that lose their payments. perhaps we should actually offer it to them and say ‘will you voluntarily lose 20 % of your payment?’ i suspect not many of them would come forward and say ‘yes’. so this is very much compulsory modulation, but probably only done to two member states, the united kingdom and portugal. not only will it not be voluntary, but it will not even be uniformly applied across the uk, because our present government wants to have different levels of modulation throughout the uk. so, in the area that i represent, south-west england, which borders wales, there is a good chance that there will be a totally different modulation on one side of the border to the other. probably english farmers will be at least 20 or 25 % worse off than their welsh counterparts. as you quite rightly say, we need an impact assessment; we actually want that on the table. that should have been brought forward by the council and perhaps we would have looked at this more sympathetically. therefore, as i said, we are ready to negotiate. it is also good to see brian simpson here tonight, because last time we debated it there was nobody from the labour party here to defend the council’s position. at least, perhaps, they are listening to us. i look forward to the new commission proposals.
madam president, in this my first speech as scotland’s representative on the committee on agriculture and rural development, i am delighted to find myself in agreement with a very clear majority of this house. as others have said, voluntary modulation of agriculture payments is not voluntary at all for the farmers who lose out, only for the member states who are fleecing their budget. the higher compulsory modulation funded across the eu has some logic but only the london government would argue that scotland’s farmers should lose out by 20% against their continental colleagues and it is right that we reject this flawed proposal. if we do not reject it, we accept a poor proposal which has been brought before us today. but in so doing i would stress to our commissioner that we need to see as much subsidiarity as possible in any eventual package that is brought forward. the scottish parliament is not yet a full member state parliament, but it is responsible for agriculture and food matters in scotland and it is right that the scottish parliament, whoever is in charge of it, should remain the relevant authority for these matters, because whoever is in charge of it will do a better job than the london government will.
madam president, here we go again. the committee on agriculture and rural development keeps rejecting this proposal and the commission keeps on batting it back. if nothing else this ping pong tournament clearly shows the pointlessness of this parliament and its committees. this parliament is supposed to represent democracy in the eu, so why is it that the commission shows it such contempt? possibly because it knows that in reality this parliament is a sham of democracy, a glorified talking shop with little or no meaningful influence over anything. the uk independence party finds itself in the unusual position of being against giving the british government more freedom, in this case to siphon off cap funds away from food production and into nebulous rural development schemes which could mean anything from maintaining village greens to building theme parks or running animal reserves. we are, after all, supposed to be talking about the common agricultural policy and not the common rural development policy. the british farming community needs support. it is not the healthy option for my country to move away from producing its own food. a country should not be reliant on imports to feed itself, and this is where britain is heading if we take money away from genuine farming and instead pour it into feel-good environmental projects. the uk independence party is no supporter of the eu and its subsidy regime. but while britain remains a member, we might as well ensure that the funding we receive – which is merely our own money that the eu sees fit to return to us anyway – is spent in the right place. feeding the british people must take priority over what might, in some cases, be termed ‘cosmetic environmental projects’.
madam president, i listened to the commissioner with great interest and, with the greatest respect, commissioner, you were even less convincing tonight than you were the last time we debated this subject. i know it is very difficult to defend a bad policy. i know it is almost impossible to defend a bad policy. in that you have my sympathy. but bad policies can never be made good ones. this policy rips the heart out of any semblance of a level playing field within the common agricultural policy for some time in the future. can i ask very straightforwardly commissioner, have you made any side deals with the council on what the future may hold as far as modulation is concerned? i read with interest in my local regional press that the agricultural official responsible has said that he will have a deal from you and the council by june. question number one, commissioner, is can you confirm that such a deal has been made? if it is, what are the details? within that deal, will there be regionalisation? and what percentage rate will be applied under that deal? these are but a few of the points i have the time to make tonight. but can i appeal to you to tell the council the truth? this is basically a downright bad deal and farmers will never accept it. certainly i, as their public representative, will never accept it. you appealed to us tonight not to let your words fall on deaf ears. you want us to be constructive. very fine words! but, i have to say to you, how can we be constructive? how can we listen when you dictate from on high against our will what we have to accept? this is not our problem. this is your problem, commissioner, and it is your problem to resolve.
madam president, once again, given the importance of this dossier to the uk farmers and our rural communities, i cannot vote in favour of the rapporteur’s recommendations to reject this voluntary modulation dossier. i also take the opportunity to remind all british meps from all political parties that support for rejection will have serious consequences for the uk’s rural development spending plans and, in effect, you will be voting for a massive cut of over eur 1.2 billion in british rural areas over the next 6 years. i also remind all members of the house that, due to the low allocation of rural development money received by the uk compared to other member states, the voluntary modulation system is not only needed but also essential in delivering ambitious and effective rural development programmes in my country. i think we need to spend a little time assessing what all this means, just as a way of highlighting the importance of the issues. firstly, voluntary modulation will allow the uk to deliver a much broader range of environmental outcomes in line with stated eu policies. secondly, whilst appreciating the political sensitivities surrounding parliament’s right, we must surely focus on the potential of securing real and genuine development gains for rural areas. for example, we can give payments to farmers under agri-environment schemes designed to deliver environmental and biodiversity benefit; we can support hill farmers and farmers in the uplands; we can work on schemes to help mitigate the effect of climate change through support for energy crops and other renewable energy products and we can help protect our countryside in key natural resources. all of this is put at risk by parliament’s attitude towards voluntary modulation and that is why labour party meps will vote against the committee’s short-sighted recommendation. without voluntary modulation, the uk will only be able to honour existing contracts, falling far short of what we would like to do. finally, i would like to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. – madam president, firstly i would like to thank all the people who shared their knowledge and expertise with me when i was preparing this report. i would particularly like to thank the commission for its generous help, as well as my colleagues, the shadows from the other groups, for their very constructive and cooperative suggestions. the basic theme of the report is that the current method of managing radio spectrum is no longer adequate in the face of constantly emerging new technologies. these new technologies need to make use of radio spectrum, but the quantity of radio spectrum will always be limited simply by the laws of physics, so we have to find ways of making sure that this precious resource is used as efficiently as possible. policy on radio spectrum may sound like an obscure matter of no interest to the citizen on the street, but the end result of that policy is of fundamental interest because it is a question of jobs and economic growth. if we fail to reform our approach to radio spectrum, we are failing european industry, which is poised to become a global leader in communications technology. all the innovation that the industry is coming forward with will fail to develop properly if no spectrum is available and if the industry is blocked from operating across the european market of 500 million people. the lisbon agenda is the driving force behind the new approach to spectrum. but there is also the need for europe to be forward looking in the way it makes services of public and general interest available. i will come back to that in a minute. first, i should like to say a few words about the changes proposed. at present, spectrum is managed on an administrative command and control model whereby certain frequencies are allocated to certain specific uses. the report argues that this administrative model needs to be supplemented now by a more flexible approach which would include more unlicensed use of spectrum and the tool of spectrum trading. an essential element of this more flexible approach is that spectrum should be made available without conditions being attached as to the service to be provided or the technology to be used. in other words, the market-based element of spectrum management would be service- and technology-neutral. this freeing-up of spectrum would clearly raise issues for existing users, such as the question of potential interference. it is therefore very important that the changes take place within a clear legal framework and with pre-established dispute resolution mechanisms. in several places, paragraphs 11, 13 and so on, the report emphasises the importance of maintaining services of public and general interest and supporting cultural and linguistic diversity. it is important not to get this political commitment mixed up with the technical issue of how such services ought to be delivered. i believe it would be a big mistake to ring-fence the frequencies currently used by broadcasting services by insisting on their exclusion from any new approach to spectrum management. that is because we would actually be damaging our ability to support a broad range of socially useful services if we insisted that the delivery mechanism for providing those services remained exactly the same, frozen in time at the very period when all other uses of spectrum are evolving very rapidly. to take one example, we face the challenge in the eu of stopping a rift opening up between the internet haves and the internet have-nots. one easy way to roll out internet access to the poorest regions of our poorest countries would be by way of wireless broadband, taking advantage of some of the broadcasting frequencies freed up by the switch from analogue to digital broadcasting, the digital dividend. i use this as just one example of why we need to affirm our commitment to services of public and general interest, but also as an example of why we must not treat the frequencies currently used by broadcasting as somehow untouchable. we need to make the most of opportunities to provide services in new ways by new technologies and to more people than at present. and it is vital to support the growth of a knowledge-based economy in europe. so, it is important to open up the possibility of more flexible use across the whole of the radio spectrum without ruling out certain frequencies. finally, i welcome the amendment tabled by the pse group, which serves as a balanced summary of the key issues at stake.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the essence of this report is the expression of two themes very popular with many members of this parliament: their inherent anti-americanism and their never-ending desire to use any pretext to call for more powers to be given to the european union. the kidnap, mistreatment and imprisonment without trial of suspects is wrong and, incidentally, that is why i and the uk independence party are opposed to the european arrest warrant and the uk’s current extradition arrangements with the usa. that being said, this report is speculative and lacks any firm evidence. the free democratic world is not engaged in a war on terrorism. this is a misconception repeated in this report. we are engaged in a war on ideology – a war we did not start. the ideology is that of fundamentalist and extreme islam, an ideology without any humanitarian or civilised constraint. thankfully, the united states of america is leading the resistance against it.
mr president, this cia committee has been a ‘me too’ exercise from the start. the council of europe, under swiss senator dick marty, produced a report on extraordinary rendition, so the european parliament had to do one as well. a british government minister said that the marty report was ‘as full of holes as a swiss cheese’, and the fava report is not much better. as senator marty has said, we, with enormously greater resources, have produced little solid material in addition to his own report. we have assembled a great number of press cuttings. we have collected flight information obsessively, with enormous lists of aircraft movements, and we are told that these aircraft may have been owned by companies that may have some connection with the cia. however, we have no idea who or what was on these flights. all the way through our work we have sought to conflate flights with renditions. we have simply assumed that cia flights equate with extrajudicial rendition of suspects. however, the cia may have all sorts of legitimate reasons to move people and materiel around the world. we went to washington determined that senior us politicians should be made to confess their guilt, but we were met by a robust response. the us administration admits that a few renditions took place in the immediate aftermath of 9/11, but far fewer than we wanted to see. we heard allegations from a number of people who claimed to have been subject to rendition, but with little supporting evidence. we went, at great expense, to macedonia, but all we learned was that macedonian hotels and border posts keep rather poor records. the fact is that our whole exercise was designed to provide a platform for anti-american propaganda. we should all be ashamed of the deep undercurrent of anti-americanism in this house. the fava report is its latest manifestation. however, it was not enough to attack the us: we attacked member state governments as well, accusing them of collusion with american security services. for my part, i should be concerned if european governments did not cooperate with the us in the war on terror. in particular, the virulent attack on my constituent, the british minister geoff hoon, by our committee vice-chairwoman baroness ludford, breached the norms of courteous political discourse and stands as a reproach to our house. we are right to insist on human rights and humane treatment for terrorist suspects, but we cannot expect either european or american security services to operate under constant scrutiny amounting to harassment from meps. this report will do little to promote human rights. what it will do is to give comfort and encouragement to the very terrorists who intend to destroy our way of life. if we approve this report, they will know that we are more concerned about the comfort of terrorist suspects than about the safety of the people we represent. (applause from the right)
mr president, touching as it is to hear conservative mr helmer defend the labour government, those who collaborate in refusing to face the facts on the grounds that an inquiry is anti-american will have red faces when the heavy guns in congress turn their energies to this topic. european commission president barroso, who of course comes from the ppe-de group, the centre-right, wants the themes of accountability and promoting europe’s values in the world to figure alongside security in the berlin declaration marking the eu’s 50th birthday in march. this serious and professional report, for which i thank mr fava, the committee chairman mr coelho and all the staff, is about accountability for human rights abuses which european governments did collude in or allowed to happen on their territory. it is about security, but built within a framework of law in which the security not to end up as a tortured ghost detainee counts too and it is certainly about promoting europe’s values in the world, the ones of democracy, human rights and the rule of law to which member states signed up in the treaty. i agree with us defence secretary, robert gates, speaking at the recent munich security conference about the west’s defeat of totalitarianism in the 20th century and our opposition to extremist ideologies now. he said: ‘our most effective weapon, then and now, has been europe’s and north america’s shared belief in political and economic freedom, religious toleration, human rights, representative government and the rule of law. those values kept our side united’. indeed, so why has the bush administration – not americans as a whole – tossed away the moral high ground and dragged america’s reputation into the mud by a programme of kidnapping, forced disappearance, dark prisons, indefinite detention, cruel and inhuman treatment and outsourcing of torture? as barack obama has said, what the us needs is not to be feared, but to be respected. i do not rejoice in the fact that the latest survey of global opinion finds an antagonism to america at an intense pitch. even in poland, fewer than four out of ten have a mainly positive view of the us. europe has failed a test in the last five years, a test of whether it will practise its values or only preach them. we have lacked the guts to refuse to collude with torture flights and lacked the vision to use europe’s capacity to be a real and united best friend to america, and it is about time that we actually practised those values.
mr president, i was opposed to the temporary committee from the very start. it has proven to be an expensive exercise. we do not have any figures, but i estimate the cost to be over eur 1 million. it has duplicated senator marty’s efforts in the council of europe and has produced nothing substantially new which was not already in the public domain. regrettably, the left and liberals cannot resist an opportunity to bash nato and the united states, which, in spite of making mistakes, remains a democracy that shares european common values and is our ally in the fight against global terrorism. the fava report is heavy on allegations and accusations, but light on conclusive proof. inevitably, some mistakes and excesses may have occurred, but in my opinion there was no systematic us policy for extraordinary renditions to illegally torture abductees in third countries, or any proof of the existence of cia detention camps in romania or poland. where there is evidence of wrongdoing, such as in italy, the national criminal justice systems have kicked in and started prosecutions. simple renditions of illegal combatant terrorist suspects through eu territory are a proven fact, but are not necessarily illegal in international law where torture is not involved, and diplomatic assurances to the member states do offer safeguards in extradition cases to third countries. the report also seeks to extend the powers of the european parliament into areas like security and counter-terrorism, which are more properly the remit of national parliaments and governments. i particularly dislike the request that the british government extend consular protection to former uk residents who had not bothered to become citizens, but chosen instead to travel to dangerous parts of the world. this is contrary to all the traditional obligations and rights of citizenship of our member states. finally, calls for article 6 and 7 sanctions against member states are totally unacceptable in my view.
mr president, whatever the political difficulties in this inquiry, above all we had a duty to european citizens not only to investigate existing allegations of rendition, but to ensure that we set a human rights standard on this continent, not just for the current victims but for any future victims and communities who may be affected by rendition or human rights abuse. the rapporteur, my political group and all of those members in this house who genuinely care about human rights have worked extremely hard to present a plenary report with substance and balance. it is important that a credible report goes to the council. shortly we will now have the opportunity to vote for such a report, a report which i believe deserves broad support right across this house.
thank you, commissioner. i should like to thank colleagues for their cooperation in keeping to time. president-in-office, we particularly appreciate the presence of the council here today. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – however well-intentioned the motives may be behind this report, i am concerned that its only result will to damage eu-us relations. those of us who have had the privilege to serve on our parliamentary delegation for relations with the united states have worked for many years to seek to achieve good relations. it would be unfortunate if a report such as this – which may make good headlines but which, it has to be said, carries little substance – was to undermine that work. while this is not a legislative report, surely we still have a responsibility to take a water-tight legislative approach. stating that there may have been secret bases or that certain names coincide with media reports does not satisfy such a legislative approach. when we decide to look into an issue of such public interest, we have a responsibility to ensure that we are contributing to establishing the truth surrounding it rather than falling into the trap of fuelling speculation.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i should like to ask the commissioner whether the commission will withdraw its proposal.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i do not think that the commission has cleared it up terribly well, but i think it is not withdrawing its proposal, and so we need to clarify the legal situation. the committee on agriculture and rural development has presented the second report on voluntary modulation after the referral of the first report back to committee in november 2006, under rule 52(3) of the rules of procedure. as no agreement was possible with the commission, the committee has had to reiterate its position, so we are dealing here not with a new report, where rule 52(3) may be applied again, but with the confirmation of the first report. the legal service of the european parliament, with which i have consulted on this issue, has informed me that, in our specific case, the last sentence of rule 52(4) has to be applied mutatis mutandis, which means that we have the vote on this legislative resolution and that a second referral to committee according to rule 52(3) is not appropriate, so we are not referring it back to committee. i propose, therefore, that the house should vote in favour of parliament’s legislative resolution because we have already rejected the commission’s legislative proposal. therefore, the ball is now firmly in the commission and council’s court. we await a new proposal with great interest. (applause)
mr president, it is a very straightforward oral amendment. in the second line there is a phrase beginning ‘have made it clear that no source of energy must be left unused’. we want to insert three words so it would read, ‘have made it clear that no sustainable and safe source of energy must be left unused’.
mr president, the british conservative delegation voted against the fava report. we regarded this report as an expensive exercise duplicating the work of senator marty in the council of europe. it is full of unproven allegations, makes unreasonable demands of the council, criticising mr de vries, mr solana and nato arrangements, which allow cooperation with the united states of america as our ally in the fight against international terrorism. the report calls for unacceptable articles 6 and 7 sanctions against eu member states, demands consular protection for uk residents, undermining the concept of british citizenship, and does not accept diplomatic assurances against torture in extraditing suspected terrorists to third countries. our case rests.
in writing. i voted against this report, not because i am unconcerned about allegations of international wrong-doing, but because this report builds its case largely on unsubstantiated speculation. even before this report was written there was a virulent anti-american political agenda driving it towards its conclusions of today. hence, its preference for press cuttings, rather than hard evidence. in consequence it exudes imbalance to the point that it will bring comfort to terrorist and anti-democratic forces.
in writing. i am voting for this report by my colleague mr fava on the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. let us be clear that i do not agree with everything in the report. there are a number of highly contentious elements, including gratuitous references to the former secretary of state for defence in the uk, which we have rejected here this morning. it has been claimed that much of the argumentation is not evidence-based. one could say the same thing about the case for intervention in iraq and afghanistan. to paraphrase donald rumsfeld: there are things we know, things we don't know and things we don't know we don't know. well, here i know that our temporary committee and its rapporteur mr fava have identified a serious abuse of human rights in breach of international law in the union. my vote is to endorse that clear overall finding and not the associated detail, which, inevitably in the absence of clear cooperation by the authorities, is speculation, which, while often right, is from time to time wrong.
in writing. i voted for the fava report, despite the changes made by nervous colleagues. the so-called 'war' on terror has been used by some to rework international law and defy international conventions on human rights and the treatment of those detained (on suspicion, not proof) without trial or any due process. human rights are universal and indivisible: the eu is committed to upholding these rights. this report confronts us with an uncomfortable reality and we urge member state parliaments and governments to investigate fully what may have been happening on their territory. this committee did not have full investigative powers, but we do have the power to make political recommendations. they should be acted upon if we really want to uphold our values.
in writing. i support this report investigating the alleged secret cia ‘rendition’ flights. as human rights form a core value of the european union and by extension the activities of the european parliament, it is right and proper that the european parliament as an institution discusses and investigates possible human rights violations within its borders.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) voted for the fava report because we believe that it is important for the european parliament to have investigated the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. meps are directly elected and answerable to our constituents. we investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that member states may have breached their treaty obligations under article 6 of the eu treaty which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights, and respect of law. the eplp voted for amendments which moved the focus of the report away from personalities and party politics to the substance of the rendition allegations. the eplp have voted for a more balanced and fair report in plenary than the report which emerged from committee stage.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party (eplp) voted for the fava report because we believe that it is important for the european parliament to have investigated the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. meps are directly elected and answerable to our constituents. we investigate all manner of issues on behalf of them and we could not ignore calls that member states may have breached their treaty obligations under article 6 of the eu treaty, which outlines the basic principles of democracy, human rights, and respect for the law. the eplp voted for amendments which moved the focus of the report away from personalities and party politics to the substance of the rendition allegations. it is for this reason that the eplp voted against amendment 29. the eplp have voted for a more balanced and fair report in plenary than the report which emerged from the committee stage.
in writing. mr fava should be commended for steering through our house this difficult and sensitive report on rendition allegations. abuses of human rights, torture and illegal deportation must be condemned in today's europe.
in writing. i am in support of this financial assistance to one of the poorest countries in europe, which has been economically hard hit by events in its region. i particularly welcome the amendments which seek to increase the role of the parliament.
in writing. a total ban on drift nets and its effective implementation needs to be prioritised by member states. too many dolphins, porpoises and seals die needlessly due to the use of these nets. a standard definition should be welcomed in order that there can be no loop-hole in the use of these destructive nets.
in writing. the reason i did not vote for the agriculture committee's proposal to reject the commission's proposal on voluntary modulation is that doing so would further delay the start of the new rural development programmes and their funding. this would have a negative affect on farmers and rural communities in my constituency, who badly need these funds. the lack of funding for rural development is a problem for wales. this has been caused by a combination of the uk not getting a fair share of the eu funding, the uk government's defence of its budget rebate and the uk presidency's financial perspectives deal. as a result of this failure by government, ministers will look to modulation to top up this fund. subsidiarity must be ensured so that the decision to apply voluntary modulation or not and at what level is taken at the appropriate level. in my constituency that would mean the national assembly for wales rather than at member state level. there are wide differences in approach and distinctive rural communities across the uk and it would be totally unacceptable to have a single level. there must also be full and additional matching funding from central government funds.
in writing. i voted for the proposal to introduce voluntary modulation of the cap as it has been used more effectively in the uk than in any other member state. it has been used as an essential source to fund rural development schemes throughout the country.
in writing. the british conservative delegation recognises the vital importance of agri-environment schemes. however, for three major reasons, conservatives voted in favour of rejecting the commission’s proposal on voluntary modulation. firstly, for british farmers, voluntary modulation would be anything but voluntary – they would be forced to accept a cut of up to 20 % of the value of their single farm payment, while the rest of europe’s farmers would not. had tony blair negotiated a better eu budget deal for the uk on rural development monies, our farmers would not be facing this bleak prospect. secondly, the proposal that we are called to vote on is, in any case, unacceptable to the british government itself because it does not allow for regionalisation, it restricts the government’s freedom in deciding spending priorities and it maintains a franchise unsuitable to the uk’s farming structure. labour meps did not move a single amendment to bring the proposal more into line with their government’s wishes! finally, commissioner fischer boel’s most recent statements suggest that parliament’s overwhelming opposition to the proposal cannot be totally ignored and that some form of compromise may emerge. we sincerely hope that this is to the benefit of british farmers.
in writing. the proposed cap reforms should be supported. it is disappointing that for the second time parliament has rejected these reforms which provide a sustainable approach to rural development. the vote today will again delay payments to farmers in scotland and the uk. meps cannot demand reform of the cap on the one hand and then not support reform in practice. our constituents time and time again ask for reform of the cap. it is worrying that the national and vested interests of a few are being allowed to distort the urgent reform of the cap.
in writing. i agree with the general aims of the council resolution. while i agree with the content of the verts/ale amendments and the commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, i believe that the amendment was too narrowly focused and i abstained from the vote on that particular amendment.
in writing. climate change is perhaps the most significant political challenge of our time. the type of steps called for in this resolution, and collective action at the multilateral level are essential if climate change is to be combated.
in writing. moves to make the european parliament a carbon neutral institution require to be pursued as a matter of urgency. tackling climate change is the challenge of our time. we all need to play our part. perhaps it will be the argument of our carbon footprint, rather than any other, which will finally end our strasbourg sojourns every month. after all, we as meps should practice what we preach.
in writing. uk conservatives are in full support of measures which highlight fraudulent financial transactions for the benefit of funding terrorism. however, this motion for a resolution fails to mention the results of investigations carried out by the belgian authorities. also the motion fails to recognise the importance of ensuring that access to such data should be limited to appropriate law enforcement agencies trusted with counter-terrorism action. in the case of the pnr agreement, conservatives believe that it is the sovereign right of a country to ask for information on people entering its territory. any agreement on data transfer should recognise this right. the more appropriate method to handle such agreements and ensure high standards of data protection is through a mechanism of intergovernmental cooperation. for these reasons british conservatives voted against the resolution.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have supported this motion for a resolution as we have always been supportive of the aims of the lisbon strategy to enhance europe's competitiveness and the development of a dynamic and innovative economy, improve labour market flexibility and promote deregulation in the eu. we also support the call for member states to refrain from protectionism. we believe that this resolution broadly supports these aims. this does not mean that we endorse the entire list of detailed policy measures listed in the resolution. rather we are supportive of the broad thrust of what we believe to be the liberalising effect of the text, which is absolutely overdue.
in writing. i am particularly supportive of the amendment which calls for the promotion of ilo core labour standards and decent work agenda. further, i support the avoidance of environmental dumping as a crucial element of fair competition. social and environmental aspects must be built into trade development.
in writing. the 2010 deadline of achieving the lisbon goal of becoming the most dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world is looming. part of this goal is about getting more women back into the workplace. during the barcelona summit of 2002 agreement was reached by member states that by 2010 a third of children under three and 90% of children aged three to six would be provided with childcare places. apparently only five member states have achieved this goal. if we want more women to enjoy the freedom of work we need to have the availability of quality and affordable childcare as a key political priority.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it argues for fair and non-discriminatory access to spectrum and maintains that all technologies should be treated the same. a combined approach to the management of the spectrum, in order to achieve greater flexibility and market reponsiveness, will contribute to social and economic benefits arising from its use.
in writing. i would like to support the rapporteur in attempting to address the serious concerns over efforts to exclude broadcasting frequencies from the proposals, in particular regarding the digital dividend which will become available following switchovers to digital broadcasting. there is a need to push broadcasters to use spectrum efficiently.
madam president, terrorism is irredeemably evil. its wicked persona is not to be excused or ameliorated. sadly, the gue/ngl minority report tries to do exactly that, with its focus on the economic and social causes of terrorism, its attack on the war on terror and its diversionary reference to what it calls ‘state terrorism’. i am not surprised, because embedded in gue/ngl is sinn féin, the long-term friend and political affiliate of terrorists. we have heard much talk of human rights, as if fighting terrorism and a belief in human rights were incompatible. remember that terrorists are those who set out to destroy all tenets of liberal democracy, who refuse to live by our civilised laws, but who are adept at exploiting them when it suits their nefarious purposes. coming from northern ireland, i have seen that at first hand. sometimes, if society is to survive, it must fight back. some, i fear, would so cloak themselves in an exaggerated human rights mantra that they would see society perish sooner than terror. this is a world of harsh choices. rabid islamic terrorism is a particular threat to every liberty that the western world holds dear. it plays not by the rules, but embraces a perverted death culture that rejoices in mass murder. with such people we cannot be soft. if we are, they will win. yes, there must be a winner between good and evil, between terror and order, and it is the duty of all of us to see that good triumphs and terror is vanquished.
madam president, this report starts from the false premise that international terrorism constitutes the greatest threat to the democratic international community. likewise, president bush’s concept of a war on terror is mistaken. violence and terrorism are only means to an end. the greatest threat to the free democratic world comes from an ideology. the ideology in question is that of the fundamentalist and extremist islam, which by means of terror seeks first to impose its psychological, and then ultimately its physical dominion on the world. they believe that time and demography are on their side and they have declared war on us. sun tzu remarked that the first place to win a war is in the mind of the enemy. islamic fundamentalists might conclude that they are well on the road to winning that war when its victims do not confront the fundamental cause of the problem. the solution is not for the european union to concentrate more power in its hands, as is predictably recommended in this report. the solution is to recognise that fundamentalist, extremist and literal islam is incompatible with western liberal democracy and indeed any kind of civilisation. from that starting point we can begin to adopt concrete measures to combat its manifestations through the actions of nation states and international cooperation. had i longer than 90 seconds to speak, i could have told you what some of those measures might be.
madam president, i wish to begin by extending my own solidarity to the victims of the madrid bombings with us today. in debating international action to combat terrorism, let us recognise that such solidarity extends internationally and that the countries of the middle east, africa and asia have suffered far more from terrorism over the past decade than we have in europe or the west. it is right to seek international cooperation, as terrorists themselves exploit globalisation through the internet, mobile communications, the media and the covert movement of people and of funds. europe should consistently use its foreign policies to encourage all third countries to sign, ratify and implement the 12 international conventions and protocols relating to terrorism. however, we must be consistent too in insisting that we cannot protect the rights and liberties of our own citizens by denying those of others beyond our borders. our commitment must be to address the underlying conditions that draw people into terrorism, by working to improve respect for human rights, to promote democracy and good governance, to resolve conflict and to tackle world poverty and to roundly reject those, like the last speaker, who falsely seek to equate terrorism with religion by upholding our commitment to promote mutual understanding and cultural awareness in europe and throughout the world.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to draw your attention to the fact that the bullmann report shows that economies of countries which have not yet adopted the euro are performing better than those who have. indeed, i must congratulate slovakia, latvia, lithuania and estonia. they have not only shaken off the shackles of communism but also embraced the free market, low taxation and minimal regulation. is it any wonder they have the highest growth rates in europe? however, i must warn them that this has ended. it will all be downhill from here. latvia will adopt the euro in 2008, lithuania and slovakia in 2009 and estonia in 2010 and they will be hamstrung by eu regulation, eu targets and by the eu continually meddling in their economic affairs. i think we should all worry when the report informs us that the european union must play a more active role in determining economic policy. one size does not fit all and individual countries know best how to find their markets, manage their economies and trade with the world. please give them economic independence.
mr president, we cannot afford to be complacent that the unemployment rate is currently reduced. the lisbon strategy calls for both more and better quality jobs. currently, the concept of ‘flexicurity’ is seen as a threat by many millions of our fellow citizens. it means for them and their families ever-greater insecurity. the commission’s proposal on the employment guidelines notes this, saying: ‘a more comprehensive approach is necessary, better combining flexibility and security’. that is often repeated, but in reality things are getting worse, not better. in its green paper on modernising labour law, the commission highlights some of the issues ‘through non-standard contracts, businesses seek to remain competitive in the global economy by avoiding the cost of compliance with employment protection, notice periods and the cost of social security contributions’. that does not sound to me like the path toward competing through quality and high added value in a globalised world. the commission also notes that fixed-term, part-time, on-call and zero-hour contracts, contracts for workers from temporary employment agencies, freelance contracts, etc. have become an established feature of european labour markets. it notes that they are on the increase, up 4% between 2001 and 2005, and show that a significant minority, round about 16%, remain trapped in a succession of short-term low-quality jobs, with inadequate social protection. thankfully, we now have directives covering part-time and fixed-term contract workers. but those initiatives date from a time when the commission still believed it had a role to play in establishing minimum standards, when it believed in using the legal bases available to it. but what about those other proliferating forms of insecure, low-paid, low-quality, atypical jobs? the best the commission can do nowadays is to ask a series of rhetorical questions in its green paper on how to rebalance ‘flexicurity’. well, maybe it is time the commission returned to a social agenda with legislative content; a signal is desperately needed to the member states.
mr president, this is an important debate on two very important reports, but it is an issue which the house has been covering both earlier today and indeed yesterday. earlier today we voted through by a large majority a resolution in relation to the lisbon strategy regarding the spring council. it covered growth, employment, competitiveness; it was an important statement of what needed to be done and how to get here. yesterday there were other important statements. commission president barroso reminded us that eu institutions had to focus on citizens’ priorities; that we cannot build tomorrow’s europe with yesterday’s tools; that we needed change. chancellor merkel, on behalf of the council presidency, said to loud applause that we needed less bureaucracy, not more; that better and simplified regulation was the direction to follow; and she urged the parliament to back this process. with our resolution today we have formally given this backing. but i do wish that this might mean that here, across all political groups and indeed within political groups, the old argument that we can either have more competitiveness or more social justice could be seen as an old argument. the reality is that they are two sides of the same coin. the biggest social injustice of all, as several colleagues have mentioned, is that which is inflicted on those millions still unemployed who want to work but cannot find a job. this is not just their problem, it is our shame. meps should no longer be seen in two camps, either on the side of employers or on the side of employees. let us please all agree to be in the same camp on the side of employment – of more jobs. that remains the priority of all our citizens. so let us not just give the council presidency and the commission our backing for their agenda, let us make it our job to work together to deliver it.
the next item is council question time (b6-0003/2007). the following questions are addressed to the council. the first question is by mr guerreiro, who this afternoon is represented by mrs figueiredo.
question no 1 by pedro guerreiro (h-0070/07) subject: revision of the statute and objectives of the european central bank is the council currently examining any kind of analysis or proposals with a view to considering, during the next presidency, the urgent need to review the role of the european central bank, especially with regard to the revision of its objectives, in order to give priority to employment and sustained economic growth, while also re-examining its decision-making processes and powers, which should not be beyond the reach of the options of the member states' governments and parliaments?
question no 2 by manuel medina ortega (h-1054/06) subject: eu-africa ministerial meeting can the council assess the results of the recent eu-africa ministerial meeting on migration held in tripoli?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-1056/06) subject: demographic developments in europe in the light of the demographic changes in europe and the growing interest expressed by the european union in resolving the demographic problem, will the german presidency say whether it intends to draw up a european pact on the quality of family life, along the lines of the european youth pact (22-23 march 2005) and the european gender equality pact (23-24 march 2006)?
thank you, minister. i have received requests for further supplementaries on this point, but unfortunately we have to take into account time, political balance and who has already spoken, so i am sorry to disappoint.
question no 4 by sarah ludford (h-1058/06) subject: roma rights what priority is the council giving in this european year of equal opportunities for all to addressing urgently the eu's main human rights crisis, which is the discrimination, harassment and violence suffered by its 8 million roma citizens (and double that in wider europe), including an alarming increase in forced evictions and a torrent of abuse and prejudice?
minister, one problem is that evictions and segregation are often condoned or even instigated by local or regional government, and central governments have not been effective in challenging them. will the presidency encourage all member states to do so? secondly, i am not really happy with your reference to subsidiarity. anti-discrimination legislation is not sufficient to tackle systemic discrimination. there needs to be positive action and proactive measures. in some member states, public authorities have a positive duty to promote equality. surely you can encourage all member states to do that through a process of peer review.
question no 5 by claude moraes (h-1061/06) subject: environmental emissions trading scheme what is the view of the council on current progress in achieving the aims of the european emissions trading scheme? are member states making genuine progress in cutting carbon emissions? what measures will the current presidency take to encourage action by member states?
no one doubts the council’s determination on the question of the emissions trading scheme. no one doubts the good news that we have heard recently. the question that eu citizens are asking, though, is what is the incentive mechanism for really making this work? this is an enormous project, and what during the german presidency would be the scope for further incentives to encourage member states to hit the targets and indeed oblige them to meet these targets, now that european union citizens truly believe that something is on the move here and there is something very positive?
the emissions trading scheme is clearly good as far as it goes, and i was pleased to hear the president-in-office’s commitment to try and expand it to include aviation. however, does he accept that the climate – no pun intended – is now right for negotiating outside the european union with countries such as the united states to make this a truly global trading scheme, which would of course have a much bigger impact on the environment?
question no 6 by chris davies (h-1063/06) subject: internet broadcasting of council deliberations what assessment has been made of the effects of internet broadcasting of legislative discussions of the council in accordance with the desire to make eu proceedings more open and transparent?
question no 7 by bernd posselt (h-1066/06) subject: status of kosovo how does the german council presidency rate the prospects of the forthcoming decisions on the status of kosovo, and is it preparing the ground for the eu to increase its involvement with the governance and security of this country?
minister, you say that eu foreign ministers want to avoid indefinite delay, but there is some concern that the ahtisaari status mission risks being somewhat drawn out. do not last saturday’s regrettable deaths at a demonstration attended by, we understand, 3 000 people – and i would say ‘only’ 3 000 people – call into question the expertise and competence of the policing of demonstrations and make rather urgent a better management of this situation so that things do not get out of control?
question no 8 by ingeborg gräßle (h-1068/06) subject: house of lords, 50th report, 'financial management and fraud in the european union: perceptions, facts and proposals' (published on 13 november 2006) on page 47 (para. 172) of its above-mentioned report, the united kingdom house of lords states the following: ‘we consider that the budget council should be at least as concerned with the union's accounts as it is with drawing up the budget. we therefore consider that the budget council should prepare a report on the annual audit and statement of assurance from the court of auditors. this would be debated by the european parliament at the same time as the court of auditor's report.’ how does the council view this house of lords proposal that there should be a report?
mr president-in-office, do you agree that there does need to be an assumption of responsibility by member states? eighty percent of european union spending is carried out on its behalf by national governments and it is there that most of the errors picked up every year by the court of auditors are found – fortunately neither fraud nor mismanagement – but it is there that they are found, and, until the member states take their responsibility, we are likely to face the same problem year after year, doing enormous damage to the image of the european union.
thank you, president-in-office. questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.00 and resumed at 21.00)
mr president, as others have said, as general al-bashir continues to prevaricate on the deployment of an au-un hybrid force in darfur, we see the humanitarian crisis getting worse. we see the number of internally displaced people increasing. the ceasefire has collapsed. the international community has and is continuing to fail to fulfil its responsibility to protect innocent civilians in darfur. this means that the european union must act urgently to impose its own targeted and phased smart sanctions. we do not have to wait for the un security council to agree on essential new measures – as others have suggested – on an arms embargo covering all of sudan, on asset-freezing of the wealthy people of sudan, on travel bans and on consideration of an oil embargo. clearly, revenue flows to the south would need to be protected if we impose an oil embargo, and consideration would perhaps need to be given to compensating the south sudanese for lost oil revenue. but the least we can do is to put a bar on investments, on technical equipment and on expertise. i also believe that there should be serious consideration of sports sanctions against sudan, especially consideration of excluding sudan from the 2010 world cup. this means that europe has to put pressure on fifa. the eu position, frankly, is weak and untenable. there is too much emphasis on carrots and not enough on sticks. the german presidency must take a lead and insist on a unified position from member states. commissioner, you have described the position, and in the council we hear the fine words, but nothing happens. the question is: how does europe put pressure on khartoum? there must be an urgent and detailed investigation of the personal finances of wealthy individuals in sudan. we have to prepare the arguments against those who claim that this would push sudan closer towards chinese business interests. the truth is, frankly, that nothing is currently influencing sudan. it is virtually impossible to influence them, and so, if we remain supine, then we maintain the position where they can be as brutal as they like and europe will continue to do nothing. millions of people in darfur are paying for european broken promises and totally worthless commitments. khartoum knows that europe is all bark and no bite and that is why today we are calling for new, strong, economic, legal and military measures. public condemnation is not enough. we want solutions which reflect the tragedy. europe is shamefully weak and i have to say finally that if darfur was, for example, lebanon, then real sanctions would be getting a lot more discussion time in the council, and president barroso in the commission and you, commissioner, would put pressure on the council to do more.
mr president, the humanitarian crisis in darfur is on a scale which is difficult to comprehend. two and a half million people have had to flee their homes. that is the equivalent of the entire population of north-east england. the death toll among these displaced people is high and it would be higher by far if it were not for the humanitarian efforts on the ground. but even humanitarian workers cannot operate on a battlefield and unless there is a lessening of hostilities in darfur it can be expected that more of them will be evacuated. the entire fragile, overstretched humanitarian effort in darfur could very easily collapse, precipitating hunger and disease in the camps and a rocketing death toll. that is why the stabilising influence of an international peace force is so urgently required. it is also necessary in order to provide calmer conditions in which a political process can get under way, involving all parties and including local low-key intercommunity dialogue as well as high-level, high-profile political negotiation.
darfur has been a running sore for far too long. a situation partly driven by climate change – what does that bode for the future – whereby desertification has driven pastoralists into direct conflict with settled farming communities and then exploited by a heartless government in sudan has gone on for far too long. hundreds of thousands are living in misery and threatened with worse. i have been critical of china’s reluctance to support un action, it was claimed because of its oil interests in southern sudan. but now president hu jintao’s direct intervention appears to have persuaded sudan’s president to agree a un peacekeeping operation manned by troops from au countries. whether sudan’s government can be trusted is not clear. but now, if china is betrayed, sudan will no longer be able to rely on their reluctance to act in the un secretary council. this may be good news for refugees in darfur and neighbouring countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am in favour of budget support, but i want to draw attention to two significant potential weaknesses and ask the commission what steps are being taken to address them. the first weakness is that aid given through budget support will not reach the remotest and poorest areas if the national infrastructure in those areas is weak. last october i visited west pokot, a remote and arid area of north-west kenya, and heard from local people about the problems they experienced persuading personnel to come and work there. budget support for health and education in pursuit of the millennium development goals may simply not penetrate into remote areas. the commission’s evaluation of the ninth edf in zambia makes exactly the same point: ‘budget support does not give the tools to target specific geographical areas. in the absence of goals and corresponding indicators related to the spread of impact over the country, budget support is not relevant for targeting remote and poorer areas’. the second weakness of budget support that i would highlight is that it is a blunt tool. it is very difficult to use it to deliver a balanced result between potentially conflicting development goals. for example, in the cambodia country strategy paper for the tenth edf, the main focal sector is support to the national strategic development plan, which covers actions such as reviving the agricultural sector by promoting large-scale irrigation. but the country environmental profile warns this may lead to overuse of land and pollution from increased use of pesticides and fertilisers. i would like to ask the commission what conditions on sustainability are laid down when budget support is offered, and how does the commission check that these are being adhered to?
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president. i want to begin by complimenting marie-hélène aubert on the quality of her report. her explanatory statement contains an excellent analysis of the problem and of the extent of progress made in relation to the eu action plan of 2002. it makes ten very clear recommendations for a new action plan to start in 2007. five of these recommendations involve internal measures and five involve cooperation with other countries, both directly and through the medium of regional fisheries management organisations. central to the issue of combating iuu fishing are improvements in traceability, both of vessels and of the fish that they catch or transport. this includes, amongst other things, insisting on the use of fao identification standards for eu vessels and those entering eu ports, and on the development of proper catch documentation schemes. but it also means better exchange of information between the parties concerned, so that blacklists of both fishing and fish transport vessels can be disseminated and the possibility of converting to a white list through reflagging can be avoided. the establishment of blacklists is, however, only effective if there are serious consequences for the vessels concerned. that is why we urge the commission to take very seriously the recommendation in paragraph 18 of the resolution that consideration be given to extending the import controls relating to health and hygiene to cover the products of iuu fishing as well. for this reason, the revival of the inter-services consultation group is particularly welcome. of course, there are many other steps that could be taken, which is why we are asking for the fight against illegal fishing to be one of the priorities of the annual work programme of the community fisheries control agency. in this context too, we must be sure that our own house is fully in order, which is why we repeat parliament’s previous requests for common minimum penalties for serious infringements to be made applicable across all the member states. equal treatment is a major factor in encouraging compliance. the importance of assisting developing countries to monitor fishing activities in their own waters must also be stressed. there is an additional responsibility in this regard where we have concluded fisheries partnership agreements with them. the inclusion of iuu fishing in the commission’s work programme for this year is very welcome, but we need a clear timetable in this regard. it is good to hear that the commission will be presenting something to parliament in the second half of the year, but we hope that it will be sooner rather than later, and comprehensive in its coverage.
madam president, first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for this report, which continues the efforts of this parliament to address the problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the european union’s 2002 action plan to deal with illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing includes four actions to be implemented at community level. one of these is to define the responsibility of member states to prevent their nationals from engaging in iuu fishing. indeed, the related council regulation of 2002 requires member states to take action against nationals that infringe the common fisheries policy. we seem to be very efficient in tracking and taking action against our own fishermen for any transgression of european law, while we seem at the same time to have been rather less efficient at dealing with the much bigger problem of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the problem of overfishing and illegal fishing is international. it goes beyond the european union waters, and yet the fishermen that i represent can with some justice complain that the commission sometimes cannot see beyond our own waters. there is clearly a lot still to be achieved to deal with this problem and i welcome the practical proposals such as the suggestion that vessels bringing fish into the european union should be subject to the same documentation delivery requirement as vessels operating within the european union. likewise i welcome the suggestion that the commission should engage with developing countries to give them assistance in dealing with iuu fishing. i understand that one of the vehicles for achieving this is through the various bilateral fisheries agreements with developing countries. however, i would like to be sure that this represents a joined-up approach to the problem and that it is not merely ad hoc. i note that some countries have not been cooperative. surely if we are making bilateral fisheries agreements with a country, we can force a higher degree of cooperation from them. otherwise cynics might suggest that we are more interested in getting the fish than stopping illegal fishing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
the next item is the commission statement on the free movement of roma within the eu borders.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, such is the way this place is organised, somehow i have more speaking time than mrs járóka, which is hardly appropriate. i agree with everything she has said and the reason for that is that the speakers here present feel united in asking the commission exactly what free movement of the roma within the eu borders actually means. our understanding is that such now is the level of discrimination – not only actual discrimination against the homogenous roma population but also infringements on their ability to move, i.e. infringements on the ability of long-term-resident roma in particular countries to move freely in reality. this can be because of actual restrictions, for example through visas and actual practical restrictions, and it can also mean, as mrs járóka was implying, restrictions through discrimination: when roma move traditionally through countries and from one country to another they face discrimination. what i would like to hear from the commission in its statement is exactly what is its understanding of these infringements and restrictions. what study has it undertaken of what these infringements are and what does it think it can do to ease these restrictions for the roma community? in addition, what is the commission saying about the year of equal opportunities 2007? i have heard very little about the issue of the roma within this context. i have heard plenty on the issue of ageing, disability, race and religion. but specifically on the issue of the roma, what is the programme of the commission? i know it is slightly unfair to ask you that, mr almunia. it is not your area of expertise, so please do not think that i am getting at you. however, please tell the commissioners that we have not heard specifics. please take that message back. what are you going to do this year? what is the high level experts group doing in terms of free movement? what is in its pending tray on the roma issue, i.e. actual discrimination issues, harassment issues? how is money being spent? is it going to relieve poverty? is it going to educational programmes? those are all things that mrs járóka, mrs mohácsi and others have been struggling and fighting for for some time. the pse group fully supports their approach in asking the commission for answers, and i think this evening is a good time to get those answers. if you cannot give them, mr almunia, please transmit this urgent message to your commissioner colleagues, because it is about time we got some specific answers to these questions.
madam president, the eu race directive is insufficiently effective in combating the multiple discrimination faced by roma people. speaking personally – and not reflecting necessarily the view of my group, which i have not consulted – i have come round to the view, like the network of independent experts in fundamental rights, that we need a legislative instrument specifically aimed at protecting and promoting the equality of the roma community. i do not say that lightly, because normally i am not keen on specific measures, but my understanding is that the european commission is not keen on this idea, and in the absence of such a focused and targeted instrument, i think all we will ever do is talk. the european roma rights centre and the european network against racism pointed out recently, in a joint paper, that forced evictions, housing in extremely substandard conditions, denial of basic social and economic rights and school segregation are often instigated or condoned by local or regional government, and central governments have been ineffective in challenging them. early this evening i had a question to the council about the position of roma people, and the response from the presidency was essentially that, while anti-discrimination laws were an eu responsibility, social inclusion was a matter for national governments – a question of subsidiarity. faced with that attitude, how will the commission promote an effective pan-european programme of inclusion and equality of opportunity? madam president, i was hoping to get an answer from the commissioner, but i see he is not scheduled to speak. on the website he was scheduled to reply to the debate, but here he is not. are we getting a reply or not?
the commissioner has indicated that he does not wish to reply, but i am sure that, in the light of the strong statements that have been made tonight, he will take a message back to his colleagues. the debate is closed.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, reading the montoro romero report, i see great praise for the eib and its work. sadly, i cannot share this enthusiasm. that sounds a bit ungrateful; after all, the uk, which is far from being one of the poorest nations, seems to do pretty well out of it. in 2005, we received eur 3.979 billion in loans, which is 9.4 % of the total loans made to projects in the member states. but the truth is that britain is being loaned a lot less than it pays into the eu. in 2005, even after deducting the rebate we paid gbp 3.6 billion into eu coffers; that is about eur 5.4 billion. that is not exactly value for money. i have no problem with some of the projects being funded, such as the east london railway upgrade scheme, or improved water supplies here and there. but, of course, the wind farm off the cumbrian coast is a waste of money. the point is, if britain were not in the eu, it would be able to finance these schemes without any loans and with money to spare. so we would be a lot better off and we would not have to fly that wretched flag with its ring of stars.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – madam president, i would like to thank mr dos santos for his report. on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, i welcome a heightened interest in these issues, but let us please be cautious about trying to solve all issues in the energy field in this report which, as i understand it, is primarily about oil prices and oil volatility. the first point i would like to make relates to the precedent of the oil price shocks in the 1970s, when a substantial increase in real terms had a big effect on the economy, but the world financial markets coped with those changes and the recessionary effects were relatively short-lived. the increases today in proportion, in real terms, are not as great, and therefore should not give us such concern. what is new are the different suppliers in the marketplace, and in particular russia and the russian policy on this matter. i have great confidence in the markets. i think that they will cope with changes in demand in the foreseeable future, but that is a very short period of time and our concerns should be more about security of supply; about getting enough supply, whether it is within europe or imported; about a depletion of reserves; and about the sustainability angle, with reference to climate change and our emissions. those are very important and we must remember that we do have alternatives to oil, but we need to develop them to a marketable stage. i would be very cautious about trying to increase the proportion of oil stocks from 90 to 120 days. i do not think 30 days more will make any difference. this house voted strongly against a proposal from the commission to that effect in the last parliament. i wonder whether our main concern is really fear about price changes.
madam president, my congratulations to the rapporteur for his report. there are many essential elements concerning this report which we can all get behind, particularly in protecting the rights of shareholders and making the process transparent. it is nice to hear the transparency directive mentioned — which i worked on before. however, from a legal point of view its treatment is slightly different from the approach of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, where strong opinion found in favour of certain key issues, in particular necessary distinctions required in dealing with intermediaries and stock lending when, in particular, shares were repatriated in order to allow for owners to vote. the timing is vital and we are surprised, therefore, that amendment 26 to article 7 does nothing but confuse the situation. what happens to these shares – are they to be deposited? transferred? registered? what? there seems to be nothing there which allows for specific requirements. there are no specific requirements or references to them concerning the sale of transferred shares. might this not lead to certain further confusion? there are also amendments from the econ committee which i have to say have been subject to what i deem the ‘recital effect’ by the committee on legal affairs and to the ‘letter effect’ by commissioner mccreevy, who suggested that later developments on these issues should be expected. let us be frank. nobody likes to be told that their amendments are reducible or that they can be ignored. the econ committee is an equal player and its remit allows it to be so. i can only say that the process has been unsatisfactory in that regard, which is partly the reason for this debate today. i hope we can come back to these issues in the econ committee with the commissioner to repair some of these problems mentioned in our econ opinion.
in writing. i voted for this report as budget support is a great tool for partnership with developing countries, allowing them to take ownership of the use of development funds. but funds must be used in the right way and there is a need to guard against misuse of funds and i am glad that this report suggests clearly identified criteria.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which recommends several measures to tackle illegal fishing, such as urging the commission to help developing countries, above all those with which it has fishing agreements, to comply fully with the commitments of the above international plan of action designed to prevent illegal fishing. in particular i support the call for the commission to carry out and submit a study on compliance with community labour, health and safety legislation and on respect for the social rights of workers on this type of vessel, and on their living and working conditions on board.
in writing. this report, whilst it had many good points, could have potentially affected uk wine production in the south-east in a disastrous manner. the ‘fructose’ practice, whereby sugar is added to uk and other northern european wines, would have been banned if amendments urging this would have been passed and accepted by the house and the commission. this is a blatant attack from inside the wine-producing industry and should be forever rejected for future reports in this area.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports the majority of this report, particularly in underlining the vital role of respect for human rights and rule of law, the importance of upholding internationally-agreed values, the need to strengthen coordination of intelligence between member states and the importance of examining the conditions that feed terrorism. however, it is premature to link esdp operations with counter terrorism, and the cost of any such esdp operation would have to come from the cfsp budget not the eu budget, as stated. in addition, abrogation of unanimity on police and judicial cooperation is not appropriate for this report as it is a much wider issue and is part of the broader ‘passerelle’ argument.
in writing. i voted for this report as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms must be the basis of the fight against terrorism. i support a multiple approach, from prevention through the building of an alliance of civilizations, to joint police operations.
in writing. conservatives strongly support robust counter-terrorism measures and the protection of genuine human rights, which should not be abused, as a first line of defence for terrorists. the report contains some useful elements, calling for closer cooperation between eu member states and external allies like the us, japan and australia, an investigation into charities linked to money laundering and terrorist financing, and universal ratification of the 16 un instruments on combating terrorism. however, too much of the report is devoted to extending the role and competences of the eu. it not only refers to the draft european constitution but encourages the eu to implement more treaty provisions relating to the european security and defence policy, which is seriously flawed. we oppose proposals to remove the national veto in areas of police and judicial cooperation, a violation of national sovereignty that would leave the uk even less able to control its borders and defend its integrity. the report makes only one mention of nato, seemingly as an afterthought. for all these reasons conservatives abstained on this report.
in writing. the high cost of oil has significant adverse effects on businesses and families in scotland, where there is still substantial dependence upon road transportation of goods and passengers, due to a lack of realistic alternatives in large areas of rural scotland, and due to the distances involved in transporting goods to mainland european markets. the situation in scotland is worsened by the fact that the uk government imposes very high taxation levels on road fuels, further disadvantaging scots traders and travellers. i supported the dos santos report, which rightly identifies the need to prioritise development of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency. scotland has considerable potential to contribute to such developments. we also have in scotland a significant offshore oil and gas resources, and it is essential that we maintain a set of economic circumstances which will encourage exploration and full extraction of that resource. my belief is that an independent scottish government would ensure that all of scotland’s energy resource potential can be maximised.
in writing. on behalf of the eplp we support the broad principles and thrust of this report given that it deals with a very urgent problem facing the european union. the problem is oil price shocks caused by major disruptions to oil supply, whilst at the same time demand grows across the world for this increasingly scarce resource. however, we would disagree that there is a need for tax harmonisation on this issue. whilst many of the recommendations from the rapporteur are completely acceptable and while the uk may practise the essential elements of the tax regime proposed already, we do not believe it is the role of the eu to set a rate of taxes in member states.
author. – mr president, my thanks to colleagues for initiating this important debate. i cannot agree with the point made by the previous speaker, which was not discussed when we framed this report. may i say that what we can do in the european commission, the european council and the european parliament is something different. there are huge numbers of iraqi refugees in jordan, in syria and in other neighbouring states, yet in almost every one of those countries these refugees are not allowed to work. their children are prevented from going to school. their parents and children are not allowed access to healthcare. they are in a desperate plight and there is no state support for them, as there would be were they in european union member states as refugees. inside the country there are huge numbers of idps – internally displaced people – equally without work, without food, far from their homes. they have been displaced mainly through religious and ethnic cleansing, one of the most miserable of wars to fight internally, as we know so well from our past history in europe. the shia are fleeing the sunni, the sunni are fleeing the shia and many others are fleeing because of the various different insurgencies that are going on. i would suggest, therefore, that the european commission, which has worked mightily on this problem, should declare iraq an emergency. i would ask the council of ministers, which has also worked incredibly hard with the government of iraq, to discuss this with the commission and with other g8 donors, for example. iraq has in a sense been put on one side. people have been unclear as to what to do, but today, now, the iraqi people are back in the sort of crisis they were in under the prolonged dictatorship of saddam hussein, under whom many more fled and under whom many more were killed. but here we are. they need our help. i strongly request that the commission and the council of ministers declare iraq to be in an emergency state, to mobilise donor funding and spend it accordingly: housing inside, aid outside. there is a lot that we can do, but we have to look at the situation differently.
author. – mr president, this unhappy debate takes note of the oh-so-predictable humanitarian disaster which has afflicted the people of iraq since the coalition invaded illegally. it also demonstrates the double standards of our own member state governments, particularly, i am afraid, my own in london, rather than edinburgh, where i would rather it were. chancellor gordon brown was asked how much funding was to be allocated to the military action and his answer was ‘as much as it takes’. i am afraid the financial allocation to the humanitarian support measures is shameful. as we have heard, the united nations estimates that 1.8 million people have been forcibly displaced within iraq and 2 million have fled that unhappy country. that is more than the population of a number of our member states. prime minister blair worries about international terrorism – he talks about it often enough. well he might! the direct result of his policies has created the best possible recruiting ground al-qa’ida could ever have asked for. so, what to do? as we, of course, go through airport security this evening flying home from this place, let us think that that is prime minister blair’s legacy to europe and to global politics. we, as we have heard, can do better: by sticking to our principles and by digging deep into our budgets. the united nations high commissioner for refugees and the international red cross efforts are severely underfunded. the countries neighbouring iraq are in desperate straits and in dire need of support. this motion has a number of points in it which i commend to the house. we did not create this disaster, but we are in a position to ameliorate its effects. by doing so, i hope we can lead by example where so many of our member state governments have so comprehensively failed.
mr president, i too want to focus on the assyrian christians who are now seeking refuge mainly in syria and jordan. iraq’s christian communities are amongst the world’s most ancient, speaking aramaic, the language of christ. they suffered terribly during the 1915 armenian genocide, and then again under the iraqi hashemite monarchy for cooperating with the british during the first world war. then they suffered again during saddam hussein’s days when he had the war with the kurds. today there are only about 6 000 to 8 000 who remain, mainly living in the nineveh plain. as many as 60 000 assyrian christians, or perhaps even more, have fled since the beginning of the insurgency that followed the us-led invasion in 2003. their exodus was accelerated in august 2004 after the start of the terrorist bombing campaign against christian churches by islamists, who accused them of collaborating with the allies solely by virtue of their practising the christian faith. last april the european parliament voted for the assyrians to be allowed to establish, on the basis of section 5 of the iraqi constitution, a federal region where they can practise their own unique way of life, free and safe from outside interference. i call again on this house, on the commission and on the human rights special observer from the german presidency, for this solution to be considered as a possibility.
mr president, we propose in paragraph 5, line 4, to delete the words ‘the european parliament’ on the grounds that it is a little linguistically untidy and perhaps a little illogical for parliament to call on ‘the parliament’ to take part in this international conference.
mr president, on this amendment to paragraph 7, we would in no way limit our praise of the swedish government, but the figure listed in paragraph 7 – 8951 – is just factually incorrect. we would propose that the words ‘which granted asylum to 8951 iraqis in 2006,’ be deleted. that will help the flow of the paragraph, while still praising the swedish government’s efforts.
mr president, i understand the courteous and moderate way in which the request has been put by the colleagues opposite, but i have to say that i think it is based on a misunderstanding. i am grateful for their support. however, we are not talking about two debates on the same issue, but about a report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, which is not yet completed, concerning the exclusion of health services from the services directive. an opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is winging its way to that committee and, in due course, we shall have a full debate on that. this resolution is not about services but about patients. (applause) it is about the consequences for patients of the judgments of the european court of justice. when colleagues say that this debate might be untimely, they are right because it is very late. this resolution was not cobbled together in three days but was put together by the committee on the environment last december, when it was carried unanimously by that committee. the health commissioner, mr kyprianou, told us on numerous occasions that he was waiting for the resolution and asked why he could not have it because he knew that it had been carried. therefore, it is long overdue. it is quite separate from the report by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and we will give that due respect when it comes. however, for now, i ask parliament to agree that the oral question should be accompanied by the resolution, which did not come before us in january or february, but surely can now do so in march. (applause)
mr president, you will recall that i recently wrote you a letter. thank you for the speed and the positive nature of your response. one of the items i raised with you was the fact that, in view particularly of the summit that has just taken place and the emphasis on climate change, it is important that the european parliament set an example and set out a strategy for itself to be carbon neutral, because it is difficult for us to tell other people how to behave if we do not have our own house in order. i was delighted to read in your response that the new secretary-general will be drawing up a proposal to make parliament carbon neutral. i should like to urge that he proceed with all possible speed to reinforce the success of the spring council meeting on climate change and, in particular, that he look at the specific difficulties we have in relation to the three places of work and how we can become carbon neutral in that context.
mr president, last week the european union announced plans to phase out incandescent light bulbs by 2009. europe currently consumes about two billion such bulbs per annum and simply does not have the manufacturing capability to make two billion alternative lamps. demand would require about 300 new production lines – that is about 75 new production lines for each one of europe’s four main lamp manufacturers. none of them currently has more than ten production lines. the cost of new machinery alone would be about gbp 450 million. if this undertaking is enforced, then the lamps will have to be sourced from elsewhere – probably china – if indeed it can meet the demand. did anyone on the council of ministers not think to ask if we had any new light bulbs in the cupboard before they decided to throw away the old ones? this is another example of what the european union does best, which is driving business elsewhere and destroying jobs.
mr president, mr ryan reminded us that today we were to remember the innocent victims of terrorism: well might we and well might i, because in my country, northern ireland, we have had over three and a half thousand innocent victims of terrorism, most of them as a result of the ira. mr ryan then went on in the next breath to urge my party to embrace in government the party of the ira, sinn féin. my party had a magnificent election result but on the premise that sinn féin had to deliver what any other democratic party would deliver. what party in the world would think it would be fit for government and yet not support the police of the community of whose government they want to be a part? this weekend we had an outrageous illustration of sinn féin attacking the arrest and charging of two former members of their organisation with attempted murder. they had attempted to murder a postman in cold blood. unless and until we get to the point where there is total and absolute support for the police – and that is only one issue – then we are some distance away from sinn féin being fit for government.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to pick up on a point that has been raised by one or two colleagues – that many of the users of social services are not, as it were, everyday consumers. they are people in particular social need and therefore, that is why we look at social services as having a different mission, and possibly a different organisation, to general consumption. it is one of the reasons why we took these services out of the services directive, because we did not consider that they operated to the same market rules as travel agencies, construction companies or anything else in the general services sector. it is true that we talk about subsidiarity in connection with these services, and many of us were very happy that they stayed with the member states who have the right to decide how they will organise them and what they will deliver. but those services are under pressure from at least two directions. firstly, they are under pressure internationally through gats, and that is why we have retabled an amendment which came from the committee on internal market and consumer protection. secondly, they are under pressure from market pressures within the european union, which gradually begin to erode and undermine the rights of member states to decide exactly how they will organise and finance their services. that is why many of us in this house think that not only do we need legal clarity, but we also need to look towards legal protection, because at the moment, all that member states can operate with is the treaty. at times, because they have chosen to operate their services in a particular way, they find unintended consequences through market pressures. as regards this report, my group feels that the original built a very beautiful frame for social services, but we feel that at the moment all it contains is a sketch rather than certainty and a clear picture, or a clear view, from this parliament. we have basically said that we want to continue consultation for a further three months and then parliament will have to decide what it wants to do: whether it wants to maintain decisions that we have taken in earlier reports such as that by mr rapkay, or whether we are going to row back and deny a legal protection that many of us believe our social services need.
rapporteur. – mr president, companies, politicians and above all people understand that the problems of world poverty and of environmental degradation remain stubbornly prevalent in today’s world. for ten years, many companies have begun to examine how they can manage their own social and environmental impacts through initiatives for corporate social responsibility (csr). business cannot be expected to take responsibility alone for meeting these challenges. however, it is now time for the communications, the conferences and the codes of conduct to begin to make a significant and measurable difference and a move from process to outcome. in this vote, the european parliament will draw attention to the limitations of voluntary csr reporting and of social auditing as it exists today. we will say that the drive for ever lower prices can prejudice fair treatment for people at work. we will insist that csr can only work by adopting a multi-stakeholder approach, internationally-agreed standards and independent monitoring and verification. we will call for actions to tackle corporate abuses in the world’s developing countries and to provide means for redress for its victims. the commission’s communications seem to me to opt out of this debate, to prescribe an ‘anything goes’ approach to csr and to risk europe falling behind, compared with the rest of the world. however, tonight i am not proposing that we reject the commission’s approach. indeed, i am asking the european parliament to contribute constructively by seeking to rewrite some of the agenda and, where the commission is making commitments, to come forward with detailed recommendations to turn fine words into concrete actions, to give full transparency to the evolving alliance for business, to rebuild confidence in the european multi-stakeholder forum and bring the ngos back to the table, to make a genuine financial contribution to enabling csr to grow, to genuinely put into operation support for csr principles in commission policies and programmes, including enterprise, employment, corporate governance and, in particular, trade and development programmes. i know that commissioners verheugen and špidla will not be able to accept all of parliament’s recommendations tonight. however, i am heartened and grateful for the private meetings i have held with them as this report has evolved. i now call on them publicly to promise that decisive progress will be made on csr at eu level within the life of this commission. i also know that some members in the debate will seek to oppose the report: i say to them that this report represents a carefully crafted compromise between the political groups. indeed, i would like to express my sincere appreciation to the shadow rapporteur. the one clear piece of new legislation we will support will be for mandatory environmental and social reporting by business, reiterating our previous position and sending a powerful political signal from this parliament. all of our other proposals are about more effective use and implementation of the existing regulatory framework and support for voluntary action. i say to the opponents inside this parliament and to the one or two associations outside that, in their enthusiasm to block action at eu level, i do not believe that they do justice or genuinely represent the best interests or the best of business when it comes to csr. take the danish pharmaceutical company novo nordisk, speaking on behalf of the business leaders’ initiative for human rights, which told us: ‘minimum standards are essential for a level playing field to be developed in this area’. take the european investment and research service, who told us: ‘if you can go some way to rekindling the interest of the commission in a more substantive approach to csr, that would be most welcome’. or take the french business confederation medef, speaking of behalf of business europe: ‘i want to thank you very much for the quality and the relevance of most of the questions and suggestions put forward by you.’ now is not the time to retreat. it is time to be ambitious and to show vision and take all of these and others together. one of the key ways we can get greater enthusiasm, dynamism and consensus behind eu action on csr is by championing it in global institutions and better implementing global csr initiatives here in europe. there is also the strategic partnership that i propose between the commission and the global reporting initiative, a new business dialogue between the eu and japan on corporate social responsibility, and the use of the fifth anniversary this year of the world summit on sustainable development as an opportunity for us in europe to lead the international debate for intergovernmental initiatives and corporate accountability, which was agreed at johannesburg. when the commission published its communication it said it wanted europe to be a pole of excellence for csr. when i read it i feared that csr in europe was instead falling down a black hole. however, if we can agree substantively on many of the recommendations in this parliament report, i believe that we can make the commission’s aspiration come true.
mr president, in this house we talk constantly about the lisbon agenda, which is supposed to make the eu the world’s most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010. the commission president, josé manuel barroso, likes to boast about his plans to control excessive regulation to help enhance the competitiveness of european economies. yet this report, as originally presented, sought to create mandatory regulation of a wide range of areas of corporate activity, including employee relations and the environment. but these areas are already heavily regulated, indeed massively over-regulated, by eu legislation already on the statute book. what we were proposing to do here was to double up on existing regulation with all the potential for ambiguity and confusion that would have created. mandatory csr would be hugely damaging to competitiveness, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to which we constantly pay lip-service but which we constantly seek to strangle with oppressive, intrusive and unnecessary regulation. however, there are now agreed amendments which firmly establish the voluntary nature of csr and i for one strongly support those amendments. i agree with the rapporteur that we need to promote csr, but we also need to protect the enterprise, productivity, competitiveness and wealth-creating capacity of european businesses. we should also be aware of existing best practice of csr amongst existing major businesses. last summer, i had the privilege of visiting the gates foundation in seattle, which of course is run by bill gates of microsoft. this foundation’s spending on philanthropy exceeds the gdp of a number of small countries. arguably, it does more to relieve poverty and hardship in africa than eu aid does and, because it is a private sector organisation, its spending is hugely more efficient. i believe that, with the amendments that we are proposing to put in place here, we should be able to support this report.
mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this excellent report. one of the key points to come out of the report is that we are not just looking at corporate social responsibility within the european union, but beyond the union as well, and at the behaviour of european companies elsewhere in the world – a move away from the double standards of how you operate here with one legislative framework and what you think you can get away with somewhere else. what we have heard from the commission on the africa forum is a good initiative, but we need to look much more closely at how companies behave in conflict zones. we have the leadership on the diamond process at the moment and we need to move forward on that. i also note from the report that voluntary reporting is now stabilising and that not all voluntary reports cover supply chain compliance, which is one of the most important mechanisms we have to drive up standards, to ensure brand protection for companies behaving well and to ensure that they avoid the actions of companies which behave irresponsibly. i look forward to parliament’s report on socially irresponsible corporate behaviour so that we can look at the contrast in how we work.
mr president, over the past seven years i have had the pleasure of debating csr with richard howitt on and off for a considerable time. it has, of course, been a most enjoyable experience – as it says here! it has certainly been a challenge, but i am sure he would be the first to admit – and i see him chortling over there – that it has been a challenge for both of us. i would like to thank him for the way that he has risen to that challenge, because clearly we have both been approaching this issue from slightly different standpoints, although in our ways, like all the other speakers, we are equally wishing to champion the cause of csr. i should just like to take issue on two tiny points with which he opened his comments. firstly, he said he was disappointed that the commission report almost indicated that it was opting out. i disagree with that. i think its report was very positive and we should welcome it. secondly, he said that he hoped that the commission would help bring the ngos back to the multi-stakeholder forum table. in fairness, it was neither the commission nor the multi-stakeholders that encouraged them to leave. they themselves chose to leave. it is up to them whether they wish to come back or not. some of them at least had a minority view – in a democracy that is perfectly permitted. however – if the interpreters can rise to this challenge – we should not allow the tail to wag the dog. it is up to the ngos to return. i will not comment further on his speech, nor, indeed, make other comments in detail about colleagues’ speeches other than to say i am sure the president and commissioners are aware that – with no disrespect to any of my colleagues including myself – sometimes our speeches are for different audiences because we have to impress constituents back home. there is nothing wrong with that; we are politicians and that is something we have to do. however, i would invite you particularly, rather than just listen to us talk, to read what we say, to read what we are voting upon because the text is very significant. there are some aspects i still dislike about the text. i agree with mrs oviir from the alde group in that i do not like the idea of an ombudsman, but it is an idea. there are a number of ideas that i do not particularly welcome, but they are ideas and all these ideas are generally worth serious consideration. however, the text is what is important. i particularly invite the commission to think of the three reports: the original report that went to committee; the report that was amended and voted against by 15 members of the committee; and the final report as it is likely to emerge tomorrow. that report i believe will be very much on your side. if i may say so, commissioners, i think you are a great double act. tomorrow we will show we are a treble act and wish to follow your lead in advancing the cause of csr.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs lévai for her report and for the hard work that she has done, but what a shame that parliament had to grab at this report, otherwise it would have passed us by. i want to add my voice to the choir of those who have already complained about the process, about the choice of method. the commission has the right to choose a recommendation, but it is a political choice and it has two effects. first of all, in an area like this a soft law instrument may unfortunately give rise to uncertainty, to a lack of legal clarity, but more importantly it avoids this house. it avoids democracy. that cannot be acceptable and i think this is our biggest complaint, not so much about the content, but the way in which this has been done in an attempt avoid the legislator. it seems to me even more startling, having participated in the last mandate of this parliament, when we had a colleague, mercedes echerer, who spent months, even years, working on an own-initiative report in this area. parliament’s interest in and commitment to this issue were well known, so to find ourselves coming back and being faced with a mere recommendation, with all its difficulties, faults and inconsistencies, is just not good enough. i apologise for not having addressed the substance, but it is the process which concerns me most.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the economic and monetary committee, and in particular the rapporteur, mr klinz, for the excellent work done in preparing the report on the directive on prudential regulation in the financial sector and for the efforts made to find a common position among the three institutions. we share mr. klintz's view that this amended directive will make the entire acquisition process in the financial sector more efficient. we need to make clear that business decisions on acquisitions in the financial sector are reviewed by the appropriate supervisory authority in a clear and transparent manner. it is imperative that legitimate business decisions are not thwarted by eager authorities or political interference. where both the acquirer and the supervised entity are concerned, the objective of the acquirer should be to cooperate, exchange information and provide input between the respective supervisory authorities. this will speed up the assessment process. it is often argued that we should not indiscriminately open the door to the invasion of capital from third countries or to the wholesale takeover of our institutions. we firmly believe that while we must protect the interests of our markets, institutions and consumers, we must also respect the commitments made in global forums such as the wto. at the same time, we insist that our trading partners also meet their obligations. the current situation is very promising. many institutions based in the european union have successfully penetrated third countries to conclude m&a transactions in the financial sector. at the same time, let us not forget that we are also addressing issues within the european union where institutions from member states have faced problems in acquiring entities in other member states. this directive is not intended to encourage or discourage acquisitions in the financial sector. nor can it be our intention to disrupt the normal functioning of the market. however, we must ensure that there is a solid framework in which to assess, approve or reject potential acquisitions. it is crucial that prudent assessment does not become a mere exercise of discretion, the result of which would be unduly delayed, obstructive, inefficient and uneconomical. questions were also raised about hostile takeovers as opposed to friendly takeovers. hostile takeovers are part of the normal functioning of the market. the commission does not consider that the authorities should take a position for or against such initiatives. whether the initiative is friendly or hostile, the decision is up to the stakeholders. every acquisition has to have a willing seller. if the prudential criteria under the directive are met, there should be no reason to question the content of the agreement between the voluntary buyers and the voluntary sellers. in conclusion, the existence of clear, fair and predictable procedures and processes is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr klinz for all his valiant work in getting this agreed. although we support the compromise with the council, it does water down the commission’s original intent and, frankly, the commission’s original text would have been better in our view. mr klinz, as i say, strove valiantly to keep as close as possible to the original intent and to improve on it. my group would have been happy to have tightened it, with more transparency and less wriggle room for protectionists. the commission’s original deadline of 30 days for a prudential assessment has been extended up to a possible 90 days for non-eu acquirers, but the crucial point here is that at least there will be an absolute deadline. thus, we can hope to avoid situations where a protectionist regulator can block a takeover by delaying tactics. in the interests of transparency, we would have preferred disclosure of the reasons for a supervisor’s decision, and this would have helped to develop a body of precedent and common practice around the eu. sadly, there is a continuing preference in some member states for secrecy. once again, the threat of hedge funds was raised in the context of amendments tabled by my group, which were designed to avoid difficulties for investment managers. we must get away from this knee-jerk reaction to hedge funds and private equity funds. they are helping to improve our economy just because they are active and demanding shareholders. i hope now that supervisors will be persuaded to work more and more closely together, exchanging information and building up relationships of trust. it is in their own interest and, more importantly, it is in the interests of the financial services industry and of the whole eu economy. we are working towards a more open and competitive european market in financial services. this particular result is not all that i and my group would have wished. the fault for this lies mostly with the council of ministers, but we will be watching to see that it is operated in a proper spirit, rather than using every possible loophole and ambiguity to obstruct it. we must turn lip-service to the lisbon agenda into action, and this is one small step in that direction.
deputising for the author. – mr president, i very much welcome this debate and the progress that is going to be made following the ecj judgments, and i know that the commission has this in its sights. when i was in potsdam in january for the german presidency’s first health conference, i very much welcomed the german government’s encouragement and its determination to see progress on the issue of patient mobility. we now look forward to the commission taking that ship into the seas and bringing it safely to harbour for the benefit of our citizens. in potsdam, i quoted jean giraudoux, because we have a problem, and his quotation, i thought, symbolised it. he said ‘jamais poète n'a interprété la nature aussi librement qu'un juriste la réalité. mr president, no poet ever interpreted nature as freely as a lawyer interprets the truth. and, with apologies to any lawyers who may be listening, it is a fact that the lawyers of europe are deciding policy on patient mobility. why? because the politicians of europe have failed to do so. if you are happy with unelected lawyers deciding national and european union health policy, then you do not need to do anything. just wait and the bills will come in. but if, like me, you believe that it should be the job of parliamentarians, then we need to get on and give legal certainty and guidance without further delay in this whole area for patients. but we need not panic. we are not talking about vast numbers. most of our citizens prefer local options and, of course, language may be a deterrent to travelling very far. only if we have waited too long are most of us interested in cross-border healthcare. our preference is that local provision will improve and make patient mobility unnecessary and that, in a way, would be a good outcome of the ecj judgments in itself. but we want to know how the new system will work in practice in case we need it. we are not talking about a pan-european health service. we are talking about new powers for the patient to bypass sluggish and inadequate services locally and nationally. but, without clarity, without systems, without guidance, we are going to see major concerns as patients and their medical advisers seek to find their way through the complexities of the system, and health budget holders are in chaos as they try to cope with totally unpredictable demand for service funding. so, as patients, as doctors, as managers, we need answers to some basic questions. the questions the patient asks are: do i qualify? what is undue delay? are there differences between conditions and between individuals, including the age of the individual? how do i apply if i need to? how do i or my gp decide what my options are? what country, what hospital, what specialist? what aftercare? can i top up if the price is higher than in my home member state? who decides if the type of treatment complies with the new criteria? and i need to know before i go, not find out later. and how do i appeal if i disagree with the decision? or do i have to go to court each time? who will have access to checks on professionals? how will patient records be exchanged? who pays for my travel, and for that of an accompanying person if i am a child? what channel for complaints is there if something goes wrong? how will reimbursement be affected? what will be the international interface between different systems, beveridge/bismarck, euro/non-euro zones? do we need a central clearing house for claims and payments, nationally or for europe? and lastly, is my mental illness also covered? we shall need european legislation for some of these answers and national legislation for others. but above all we shall need guidance to provide clarity for patient and practitioner alike. we shall need to test the water and adapt to experience, such as with centres of excellence. we need to speed ahead with our frameworks for health professionals and patient safety and sort out the e121 system for people retiring abroad. people have voted with their challenges to the courts and the ecj has responded and confirmed their rights. now we need political action to put in place a system which will be welcomed by people as a benefit coming from europe.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, commissioner, you know from our discussion in committee that this issue is extremely important for myself and for the pse group. we see health services as one of the pillars of the european social model, and the underlying values of that model – universality, access to good quality care, equity and solidarity, to ensure that services are provided on the basis of need and not the ability to pay — are fundamental to us and to that model. we feel that any initiative you take on cross-border healthcare should be built on these principles. it should be about healthcare for all and not about market opportunity for some providers. i think many other colleagues from different groups have already said this. mr bowis talked about the legal certainty that is needed in a range of areas. these are the questions that people write and ask me about. they have heard about their rights, they are not sure how they can exercise them, so yes, we want a clear legal framework for patient mobility and for the movement of professionals, not just to give them rights, but so that citizens know that those healthcare professionals are properly qualified, are fit to practise and that information is shared between member states. finally, commissioner, you said that you recognised that healthcare has a special character. the health ministers agreed a set of values and principles in june last year, and i wonder whether you will be taking that on board when you draw up your proposals later this year?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the climate change initiative has been raised to the very top of the agenda. despite serious doubts about the extent to which co2 causes global warming, the eu is determined to lead the world in reducing emissions. but, apart from nuclear power, sources of energy other than fossil fuels are still far from viable. this is true of renewables in particular. we now have a binding target of 20% for renewable energy with no proper assessment of the methods of achieving this ambitious goal or its cost. permit me to mention a lesson from the kindergarten school of economics. if you raise the cost of a resource, you make goods more expensive and you reduce competitiveness. we are told that this initiative will stimulate innovation in renewable technology and improve exports. instead, it will make us all poorer. i suggest this sudden obsession with carbon emissions is a distraction, an attempt to take our minds off all those other projects that have had disappointing results, such as the lisbon strategy, immigration and asylum policy, reform of the common agricultural policy, the euro and several more.
mr president, the barroso commission has now achieved its cruising speed, and the more assertive strategy that we have here should be fully examined and debated inside national parliaments and parties. it is a splendid tool to both inform and stimulate a national discourse about the eu dimension, and commissioners should be sent forth to sell it. the strategy is sensibly reticent about saving the constitution, but its work foreseen on reviewing the workings of economic and monetary union and on the social dimension of the single market should prepare the commission for the igc that we confidently expect for the second part of 2007. so, also, the review of the financial system should be brought forward to assist the search for a solution to the constitutional crisis. money on the table can assist the igc, and no reform of the expenditure side of the finances can be sensibly approached without a systematic review of the common policies.
mr president, commissioner, i think i participated in all the recent debates about the policy strategy and i have had cause to criticise it. this morning i want to welcome the early start that you are giving us on the development of the policy strategy. i agree with you that this is important in stepping up our political dialogue. i think you said that you were looking for frank and productive dialogue, so i hope that you will accept my remarks in that spirit. commissioner, one of the major concerns i have with this document, as with the previous ones – and i hope that discussing this now may prompt you to do something about it – is that i want to see the focus and resources underlying your work devoted also to consolidating and implementing the existing legislation. policy strategy is not just about new initiatives. we want you to have the maturity to tell us about what you are doing to implement the existing rules and regulations. in my particular area of interest, the single market, you rightly talk about allowing citizens and smes in particular to benefit from that market. i suggest to you that in 2008 by far the single most important thing you can do is to make sure that the single market for services directive is properly implemented in all member states. that would be more important than any other initiative you may want to take. i want to see it in your strategy when the proposal comes out. and just two other things: i am surprised that there appear to be no policy initiatives at all in the area of the knowledge society and information technology, despite the fact that there is a large and important work programme in progress. so maybe you should look at that. i do not think that initiatives have dried up in that area. finally, on the issue of better regulation raised by a number of my colleagues, it is no use whatsoever for the commission to continue these excellent initiatives, if nobody knows about them. why is that not on your list of communications? because our citizens need to know what is going on and need to be engaged with the process if we are to assess its impact. so please put that as one of your communication priorities.
mr president, vice-president of the commission, the lisbon agenda of course is the right road. but on that road, nothing is more important than the health of our people and the health of our environment. that has been the flavour of the week. now, on climate change, of course, if we do not keep below that 2o target, we know the devastation that will result in terms of flooding and drought and population movement and so on. the other day i went up the thames with the environment agency, saw the need for a new barrage at the estuary of that river, saw the flood plains which are going to be affected by flooding, and saw the building that is going on on the flood plains without taking account of the need to put people higher on those flood plains if they are going to live there. we are not designing yet. we are not preventing yet and that must be our agenda in 2008 and beyond. we need a policy of prevention. we also need a policy of managing existing threats. we need a combination of law and individual effort. hence, we need the 20% reduction targeting greenhouse gasses by 2020. hence, we need the 20% target for renewables. hence, we need the biofuels targets, particularly with the second generation. but, hence, we also need the eco-labelling revision to help consumers understand the options, and we need action on light bulbs and stand-by switches and so forth. hence, we need effective implementation and monitoring by the commission and particularly, may i say, of emissions trading and the national action plans. and i ask the commission to be tough on member states on these. there is no second chance. we have to keep the price of carbon high to encourage research, innovation and substitution.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, there is much to be welcomed in the strategic approach you presented to us this morning, but i still find something lacking with regard to the cross-cutting priorities and the strategic focus of bringing issues together in a more coherent and holistic manner. i want to refer to two areas that i know well. one is to do with the high north and you, mr vice-president, were kind enough to join us at a conference that parliament hosted in brussels a couple of weeks ago. this brings together the issues of climate change and energy that you mentioned, but also maritime policy. it also brings together both the internal and external policies of the union and somehow we have to get these all together in the same box and give them focus. it means the northern dimension. it means participation in the arctic council. it also means international polar year – which is 2008-2009. is the european union even at the table? can we have a more holistic approach to these issues? my second area is that of civil justice. if you look for civil justice in this, you find a bit of contract law dressed up as consumer law. you find wills and succession hidden under security and justice policy, where you also find something to do with bank account attachments. please can we look at civil justice, which is the other side of the internal market, making it function for our companies and our citizens? please can we call it civil justice, and can we have a pattern of civil justice that gives access to justice so that our citizens can see what is there?
mr president, i should like to thank the vice-president of the commission for attending. today i am touching on world trade in particular, because that is my mandate. it goes without saying that i should like to see the commission move forward on the doha round, and mr mandelson, the commissioner responsible, is doing an excellent job in pushing that forward. i want to see bilateral agreements used to get into multilateral agreements, because the commission must look at multilateral rather than bilateral trading agreements, but using bilateral agreements to move towards them. however, perhaps most importantly, i want to see a transatlantic dialogue. that has been missing and it is something that is so important to the future of the wto. i believe that the us has failed to come to the table, and we must look at supporting president bush in his fast-track system in order to bring susan schwab, the new negotiator, to the table so that she and mr mandelson can form a real partnership and discuss the way forward. i feel strongly that the us has failed dramatically in the reform of the farm bill, while we in the european union have been reforming and continue to reform our agricultural policy. this is very important and i hope the commission will stress that fact. finally, on your role, vice-president of the commission, we should not forget economic partnership agreements. this is part of an acp agreement. i have been drawing up the report in parliament and it is vitally important that we finish these by the end of this year so that the commission can stick to its programme and africa and the countries involved know exactly what is going on. let me finish on a personal note, commissioner. this is quite important for the uk. you have just spent eur 1.2 million on a building in the uk. i am very concerned, firstly, about the cost and, secondly, about the diplomatic status of the staff. it is not a diplomatic mission, it is there to represent the commission, and there should be no diplomatic posts.
madam president, with over 40% of the eu-us market, this particular agreement is of great interest, of course, to the united kingdom. while i accept that the agreement could deliver some benefits to consumers, it has still to my mind failed to address some fundamental issues and has a number of question markets over it. in particular, the deal falls well short of providing the kind of access to the us market that a number of eu carriers would like. it does little with regard to ownership of us airlines and appears little different from previous deals rejected by the european union. so, in my opinion, those who enthusiastically welcomed this agreement may need to pause a little and examine it in more detail to see what it delivers for the eu. i know the ultimate goal is to create an open aviation area with the us and i indeed support any agreement that would unlock the transatlantic aviation market. but the question is: does this deal help deliver that? to me it is a deal that promises the eu jam tomorrow and gives the us the jam today. however, if this agreement does go ahead, then we must ensure that a clear timetable is quickly put in place with real and serious incentives on both sides to move forward to a second stage deal that delivers a fully open aviation market. in short, i do not think this deal is a disaster, but it is not as great as the commission would have you believe. it is merely a first step and one that would appear to benefit the us. i look forward in future agreements to the united states giving something a bit more substantial back and for that country to stop over-protecting its aviation industry.
madam president, firstly i would like to thank the commissioner for his statement and, indeed, to give him some credit, which he deserves for moving matters forward. i am afraid, though, that i am going to have to disagree with some of my friends here, because, although i applaud efforts to open markets, the markets must be opened fairly and i fear that this agreement does not go far enough. not only would the current proposals cause harm to british business, but they could also have a detrimental effect on some of our eu businesses generally as well. what is now on the table will undoubtedly give us companies a substantial share of our unregulated market, while eu companies will be left to fight for the scraps of the us regulated market. i think we should be fighting harder for reciprocal agreements on ownership rights. in the current deal as i understand it, us interests can own up to 49 % of the voting stock of an eu airline, whereas eu interests can only own up to 25 % voting stock of a us airline, and i am not sure that is fair or open. according to the court of justice, any transatlantic negotiation should fully honour member state bilateral agreements, such as bermuda ii, and i think this agreement does not adequately deal with that. the commission is seeking to harmonise its policy and has not taken into account the full differences between states. what we are calling for on this matter is continuing action rather than just dialogue. i think the commission has certainly moved things forward, but it is also important that, when we go back to the negotiating table in three months’ time – which, again, i welcome – there must be some firm commitments from the united states to take more action in response to our needs in this field.
in writing. the unanimity of agreement between the committee members who actively considered this report underlines the concerns for shareholders. institutional shareholdings by fund managers who sought to repatriate rights to owners of those shares was critical to the success and balance of this report. similarly the level of communications and appropriate timing has renewed the connection between share owners and boards of directors, allowing questions to be put without the 'nuisance effect' which could jeopardise effective management of shareholder meetings.
in writing. the uk conservative delegation voted against the howitt report in committee, as did the epp-ed, because it was oppressive and regulatory in tone. the uk labour rapporteur had called for yet more eu legislation, rather than inspiring companies to choose to adopt the concept themselves. as a result of my amendments in plenary this report has been completely turned around. the voluntary nature proposed by the commission has been endorsed. parliament has accepted that a social eu does not automatically need more eu regulation. as is increasingly the case, it has been uk conservatives setting the agenda.
in writing. i welcome the rapporteur's own-initiative report. the concept of a european standard for product-labelling recognising human rights and workers' rights should be supported. there are still too many people in our world today, many of whom are children, living under modern-day slavery. with the bicentenary of the abolition of slavery being remembered on 25 march, we need to do all that we can to combat modern-day slavery. corporate social responsibility helps us in this battle.
mr president, as chairman of the quaestors, i can say that a lot of members have already contacted me on this. we never schedule roll-call votes during the first two items in voting time because we know members are making their way to their seats and have to find their cards. i met one vice-president running down to get his card as he had left it behind. i think parliament’s services really need to look at this, and i think we need to deem that, today, members were in their places because this will be a disaster for us. i can see us getting a hundred requests at the quaestors from people telling us they were here and they did vote. so, will you please pass this on to the conference of presidents or whoever is responsible? the quaestors do not have time to deal with this every time people cannot turn up and we have only two roll-call votes.
yesterday’s minutes have been distributed. are there any comments?
mr president, item 13 of the minutes refers to a member changing political group to join the its group. it makes no reference to mr wise leaving the ind/dem group and i wondered whether this was a mistake. i understand his party, the uk independence party, has suspended him pending the investigations into alleged fraud in his case. does this not mean that his group has also suspended him, or was the press campaign deliberately misleading?
i think your point is made, mr corbett. we will look into it. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is council and commission statements on non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament.
commissioner, you said that proliferation is potentially the greatest threat to our security, and i agree with you. how ironic is it, then, that tomorrow the uk government is likely to take a decision to replace the trident nuclear submarine system that will precisely accelerate that proliferation and thus undermine our collective security? when it does so, it will be demonstrating the most breathtaking hypocrisy: maintaining and further developing the uk’s own nuclear weapons, whilst waging illegal wars to try to stop others from obtaining them. what moral authority can the uk government possibly think it has to lecture countries like iran about not developing nuclear weapons, when we ourselves continue to do exactly that? the npt is made up of two pledges: non-nuclear states agree not to acquire nuclear weapons, provided that nuclear states begin a serious process of getting rid of theirs. if we do not keep our side of that bargain, if we do not abide by international law, we can hardly be surprised if others do not keep their side of the bargain either. the uk government’s upgrading of trident fundamentally undermines the eu’s collective position on non-proliferation and, therefore, both the uk and, indeed, france, should be strongly condemned by both the council and the commission.
mr president, as we look ahead to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty review conference in 2010 there is no doubt that the treaty is already under considerable stress, particularly with the debates about iran and north korea, so there could be no worse time for a country to send out the message that nuclear weapons are essential for any country's security, however useless they are against the real threats that we face, like climate change and terrorism. but that is exactly what the british government is proposing to do and, as we have already heard, tomorrow in westminster mps will be voting on whether to renew the trident nuclear weapons system and take the uk and the rest of the world into a new nuclear age and a new nuclear arms race. under the npt we should be discussing a timetable for disarmament of these illegal and immoral weapons, not their renewal. i would urge all the groups in this parliament to support the resolution and the amendments to encourage uk mps tomorrow to oppose trident replacement and to honour the commitment made over 35 years ago when the npt was signed.
i believe this is an important debate. the proliferation of nuclear weapons makes the world less, rather than more, safe. whether israel or india, pakistan or north korea, we should pressure them to join the non-proliferation treaty. yet we should recall that the npt talks not only about stopping the spread of nuclear weapons, but about the world's nuclear powers reducing and removing their own capabilities. the former gets more attention than the latter. the socialist amendment condemning the us anti-missile shield is all too appropriate. as we have seen in ne asia, with japan's deployment of theatre missile defence and theatre high altitude defence, these are enabling offensive technologies for the bush administration's doctrine of pre-emptive deterrence. with their deployment, the us will be able to launch an attack on countries with small numbers of nuclear weapons and defend against any orphan missile missed in the initial attack. i will also be supporting amendment 1 by the greens. i am not in favour of unilateral abolition of britain's trident fleet, but i am entirely unconvinced of the need, at this stage, to renew it.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group in the committee on internal market and consumer protection, first of all i would like to congratulate the commissioner on her first major statement to this house, which i am sure will be the first of many, and also to thank her very much for the very comprehensive approach that she is taking. i think that, in particular, commissioner, you have clearly set out that eu consumer policy has to be at the heart of the whole internal market debate. i echo very much what my colleague mrs gebhardt said, i.e. that we are here to make an attractive internal market for consumers and encourage them to participate in that internal market and therefore we want that package to come together. now the question i wanted to pose to you, commissioner, is that you specifically identified your role as a champion for consumer issues and that you will be looking at other policies in other parts of the commission. i think that, in particular, many of us are very concerned about the developing issues to do with the rome conventions, which, in some ways, may work against your vision of making a legal framework that is simple for smes. i wonder if you could assure us that you are going to tackle those issues as well?
mr president, i have two points. first, to follow on from a point made not too long ago, how is the commission protecting consumers in its latest statement of objections issued in its competition case against microsoft? or is this just upping the publicity stakes in this long-running dispute which has little to do with consumers themselves and everything to do with competitors and forum shopping? my second point involves class acts or representative action – which does already exist in member states. there is already a representative action taking place in the uk taken out by the ‘which?’ consumer group against jbb sports relating to the sale of england and manchester united football shirts in 2000 and 2001 using what is called section 47b of the uk enterprise act of 2002. do you think that europe needs to dabble in this area any further?
the next item is question time (b6-0012/2007). the following questions are addressed to the commission. first part
question no 44 by claude moraes (h-0078/07) subject: road transport and emissions given that road transport is responsible for 25% of eu emissions of co2 and aeroplanes for 3% of eu emissions of co2, what level of research has the eu commission undertaken concerning the annual emissions of road transport (cars, buses, trains etc) and their effect on the environment, taking into account that great political and media emphasis has focused on the emissions emitted by planes?
i thank the commissioner for that detailed answer. i think most members will welcome the 130 grammes per kilometre figure. of course meps including myself will want to see better targets, more effective targets. there is no question of that, but the reason for my question was first of all to reflect the action that you have already taken and that parliament wants to see taken, but also to get into balance the fact that there are emissions from homes, from waste and all sorts of other areas other than just aircraft and that the commission, working with parliament, emphasises that this is a partnership across all of the deleterious effects of co2 emissions so that we do not just emphasise air flights and then just miss out the emissions of shipping and vehicles. in my own city of london that is extremely important to stop the kind of pollution that we see strangling that city.
i fear mr moraes’ question might have been a way of expressing support for the expansion of london’s airports, to which i am resolutely opposed. but, commissioner, london is already failing to meet eu air quality targets on nox and particulates, and it is forecast to exceed the more stringent levels coming down the track. increasing use of public transport is essential to cleaning up london’s air, but we are the most expensive public transport capital in the world. monthly fares for commuters are twice those in paris and rome. what role might the eu play in improving air quality in london, not least by enforcement action and encouraging the mayor of london and the uk government to make public transport more affordable?
question no 45 by liam aylward (h-0164/07) subject: educating young people about environmental issues does the commission have any plans to promote awareness within our primary school network concerning environmental issues, which are of growing concern to the people of europe as each day passes?
question no 46 by antonis samaras (h-0159/07) subject: recognition of university degrees the bologna process and the protocol signed at bergen, norway, concerning the recognition of degrees awarded for studies at european universities provided that the member states should draw up a ‘list’ of the universities whose degrees are not recognised without other procedures. these lists have not yet been drawn up, which has resulted in a large number of petitions to the european parliament, and citizens are concerned about the future of their children. will the commission say what provision is being made at community level and what measures the member states should take to comply with european union requirements? does the commission intend to propose further measures on this subject?
question no 47 by marc tarabella (h-0079/07) subject: non-implementation of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 on air passengers' rights in the event of overbooking, delays or cancellations in its answer to oral question h-0697/06 of 26 september 2006, the commission undertook to present a communication to the european parliament and the council on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 oj l 46, 17.2.2004, p. 1. on air passenger rights before the end of january 2007. in the meantime, the confusion has worsened following further refusals by airlines to apply compensation clauses. furthermore, the european ombudsman has strongly criticised the inaccuracies in the information air passengers have received from the commission. when and how will the commission straighten out this mess and stop the public being penalised by the regulation's lack of clarity and the commission and member states' refusal to punish airlines?
question no 48 by bernd posselt (h-0087/07) subject: magistrale for europe from 10 june 2007 the tgv est high-speed train will be travelling from paris to strasbourg in two hours 20 minutes. so why does the tgv terminate in stuttgart instead of continuing to munich, and what steps will the commission be taking in general to finally make the eastern section of the magistrale for europe a reality, as planned in the trans-european networks?
question no 49 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0091/07) subject: court decision offsetting debts of the greek state to olympic airways (oa) in its answer to my previous question (e-5051/06), the commission states that: 'all monies due to olympic airways up to 2002 were taken into consideration by the 2002 decision ...'. this decision, in conjunction with that of the court of arbitration which awarded the sum of € 580 million to olympic airways in compensation for a part only of the state's debts to the company and the debts entered in olympic airways' accounts, is embarrassing to the commission, since for many years successive governments saddled olympic airways with vast debts which they refused to recognise while the european union 'washed its hands of the whole business', and pretended to take the information provided by successive governments at face value. given that unresolved issues with the european union are preventing the company from undertaking investments which are essential for carrying out its work as air carrier, will the commission say whether it intends to clarify its claims that the real debts of the greek state to olympic airways have already been offset during the implementation of restructuring programmes? what initiatives does it intend to take to oppose the demand for the recovery of 'aid' which has been taken into account following the judicial decision?
questions 50, 52 and 53 will be answered in writing.
question no 54 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0144/07) subject: cooperation in the transport sector with neighbouring countries and, in particular, the mediterranean region on 31 january 2007, the commission adopted a communication entitled 'guidelines for transport in europe and neighbouring regions', setting out the basic strategic guidelines for a revision of the pan-european zones and 'corridors', together with the five basic axes linking the eu with its neighbours, in the light of the new geopolitical conditions, particularly following the latest enlargement. does the commission consider that, of the thirty priority projects for trans-european networks, these five basic axes should take precedence? in particular, three of the five basic axes concern the mediterranean [(a) motorways of the seas in the mediterranean region, (b) south-eastern axis eu-balkans-turkey-middle east-egypt, red sea and (c) south-western axis, eu-maghreb countries-egypt]. does the commission intend to present specific initiatives to support the priority projects in relation to these three basic axes concerning the mediterranean? as of 2007, the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) will contribute towards the financial support for neighbouring countries in the form of loans for projects in priority sectors and for horizontal measures. can the commission say what level of funding is envisaged from the instrument and what part will cover the needs of the mediterranean? in addition to the involvement of european and international financial instruments, what is the contribution of the partner countries in this regard?
thank you, commissioner. question 55 will be answered in writing.
question no 56 by danute budreikaite (h-0112/07) subject: new sources of energy one of the 150 experimental cars featured at the michelin challenge bibendum, a rally for ecological cars held in shanghai, was the habo, a car fuelled not with petrol but with hydrogen peroxide, which produces oxygen on reaction with water. there are already dozens of hydrogen-powered lorries on us roads. much has been achieved in this area by canada. it seems that the japanese manufacturer honda will begin mass production of hydrogen-powered cars within three to four years. can the commission indicate how the programme to produce fuel from hydrogen is being reflected in the seventh framework programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013), and what results have been achieved?
question no 57 by teresa riera madurell (h-0145/07) subject: women in science under a coherent strategy designed to devote 3% of the eu’s gdp to research by 2010, 8 out of every 1000 people of working age in europe would need to be researchers – that means a total of 700 000 new, properly trained researchers. it is therefore vital that europe make the most of its research potential, inter alia by encouraging more women to get involved in science and technology. using only half of the brains available is neither intelligent nor efficient. international women’s day is on 8 march. in view of this, can the commission come forward with an initiative designed to put this fault right?
thank you, commissioner potočnik. we now turn to questions for commissioner verheugen. i should like to inform colleagues that question time will overrun by around 20 minutes today, and i should like to thank the interpreters in advance for their forbearance.
question no 58 by sarah ludford (h-0075/07) subject: counterfeiting of medicines in its resolution on the counterfeiting of medicinal products of september 2006 (p6_ta(2006)0351), the european parliament called on the community to equip itself as a matter of urgency with the means to combat effectively illicit practices in the counterfeiting of medicines; called upon the commission to go beyond its communication, ‘strategy to enforce intellectual property rights in third countries’ and in particular urged the european union to take adequate measures to combat the scourge of the counterfeiting of medicines in its territory. what concrete steps has the commission taken since september 2006 to combat the counterfeiting of medicines within the eu and abroad? in particular, what measures has the commission undertaken to enhance controls over medicines sold on the internet?
thank you, commissioner. i look forward to the action plan, but i worry whether the scale of the response is equal to the scale of the problem. two weeks ago the international narcotics control board talked about what it called the ‘flood of counterfeit medicines’, perhaps between 25 and 50% of medicines in developing countries are fake, and in europe, as you have mentioned, sales on the internet are one of the main challenges. can we try and help locate the people and businesses behind illicit internet sites? can we, while maintaining the avenues for parallel trading, try and make sure that illegality does not creep in to parallel trading? what do you think about a ban on the repackaging of medicines? what kind of loopholes in legislation are you talking of closing? could we have criminal legislation on aligning the definitions and the penalties on offences in the law enforcement third pillar? i just think that there needs to be a great sense of urgency. this is killing people, and seriously harming health.
question no 59 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0076/07) subject: measures to boost european entrepreneurship as part of the lisbon strategy, the european strategy for growth and employment and the european agenda for entrepreneurship, which measures does the commission intend to take to boost private entrepreneurship, in particular among young people, and to create the right environment for risk-taking so as to modernise, develop and promote the competitiveness of europe's economy?
question no 60 by glenis willmott (h-0085/07) subject: engineering in the euas part of the lisbon agenda we talk about unlocking european potential and focusing on creating more growth and employment. yet the engineering sector, a sector which could provide both these things, is all too often neglected here in europe. china produces 1 million engineering graduates each year and rising. if we compare this with the eu, the eu produces around 170 000 and falling. in the uk alone it has been estimated that by 2012 uk manufacturing and engineering will not be able to meet its requirements for graduates and apprentices by new or young entrants alone. how does the eu propose to counterbalance the competition posed by the new emerging economies and to recruit and train the necessary workforce here in europe?
in my region, the east midlands, we have an excellent example of a project which has taken a proactive approach to structural changes in the region. this project, funded in part with eu money, has developed a mobile unit which travels directly to people in areas of concern. the unit travels to sites where there are specific redundancy and redeployment issues. the mobile resource centre offers vital support both to employees in need of redeployment or retraining and to companies in need of immediate access to a well-trained, skilled pool of talent. it also travels to schools to encourage children to go into engineering as a career. what is the commission doing to promote such practical action and to encourage other european countries to adopt similar formulas?
question no 61 by georgios papastamkos (h-0099/07) subject: carbon dioxide emissions from automobiles commissioner verheugen appears to be opposed to proposals from commissioner dimas regarding binding provisions concerning the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions for all categories of automobile, calling for a more 'integrated approach'. one of the factors under discussion concerns the use of biofuels which is related to a very important and sensitive issue in the greek farming sector, that is to say the problems faced by sugar producers. could the commissioner indicate whether his position does in fact differ from that of mr dimas and, if so, how? regarding biofuels in particular, is he able to make any specific proposals?
thank you, commissioner and colleagues. i thank the interpreters for their indulgence with our over-run. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers see annex. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.35 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as others have said, i think this is a good report and i congratulate my colleague, mr leichtfried, not just on the report but on the way that he has involved other colleagues in parliament in the discussions and in the debate. we are looking at an extension of the european aviation safety agency. i think it is a good idea, but only if it is done properly. if done in the wrong manner, it would not be positive. we, as members of this committee and this parliament, know that air travel – and many of us use air travel more than we would like – is actually one of the safest modes of travel available. i think that we need a sensible response and in a single market it is quite appropriate that we should have a european response to safety. having said that, there are issues in this report about which i have concerns and i would like to draw members’ attention to some of these. indeed, the rapporteur is aware of some of my concerns. amendment 17 highlights my concerns about fines and penalties. i do not believe you can compromise on safety, so i do not think that fines and penalties are an effective measure for correcting safety problems. if there were a safety concern about a particular airline, i would be much happier if that airline’s licence were suspended or its certification revoked. i do not think that we can have half measures. i do not think that a fine or a penalty would make an airline improve in the way that a withdrawal of its certificate would. (interjection from mr jarzembowski) well, let me carry on and i will not interrupt you. i could not hear a word you said, so it may have been important but i missed it completely! i also have reservations about fees, because i believe this agency needs to have a secure footing. the funding needs to be there, they need to know it is going to be continued and i do not think there can be arbitrary limits on the setting of funds. another reservation i have – and mr leichtfried spoke about this – is the management board. i think that citizens expect the board members to pay a full role in ensuring their safety. member states should be able to nominate and vote on qualified people to ensure that their interests and obligations are met. my final point concerns amendment 1. there is a difference between safety and security. they are very separate and it is not clear to me – and i wait to be convinced – about what benefits would be brought by bringing security into this measure, which is to do with air safety. air security is equally important, but it is a very separate issue.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, a significant birthday is always a good occasion to take stock. fifty years ago at the signing of the treaty of rome, what was in the minds of europeans? well, hope, undoubtedly; optimism, perhaps; but the certainty of success – far from it. and yet the european union is at the base of the security, prosperity and opportunity which our people now enjoy. we live in a europe of freedom and security, of prosperity and opportunity and of societies and economies more open than ever before. our generation has aspired to, and achieved, more than our parents could ever have dreamt of. but the berlin declaration must reflect less our pride in the past, more our determination for the future. president-in-office, the process is depressingly opaque. everybody likes a surprise on their birthday, but to debate a declaration without even a draft is bizarre! you hinted at what it might contain, president-in-office. you assure us that the spin doctors in the bundeskanzleramt are still hard at work, and yet the chance to debate the text will be limited at best, so do not be surprised if many of us feel we are being bounced. we want a declaration that looks ahead to the challenges we face, that gives us an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to the values, the aims, the future of the european union – one which will bring our citizens back on board the european project at a time when more than ever our nations must act together. an enlarged and open europe needs greater solidarity between its nations and its citizens; economic reform, as recognised at the european council; and a wider mission to project our values in the world. faced with the global challenges of world population growth and migration, of climate change, of internationally-organised crime and terrorism, the declaration gives member states the opportunity to explain to citizens why now, more than ever, the eu is so important, why we have to engage with countries beyond our borders and cultures beyond our ken. europeans should not be afraid of this. what has made europe strong is its openness. a retreat into fortress europe, the anachronistic idea of nation states and protected economies, or christian fundamentalism, would only catapult us back in time: a time when europeans had only one citizenship, only one national identity. our advice to the german presidency is: keep it short and simple – the kind of text one might nail on to the door of a church in wittenberg. or if the chancellor is too busy to go that far, at least on the wittenbergplatz! i hear that the draft is currently running to two pages. if that is true, it is already one page too long. my liberal and democrat colleagues in the committee of the regions have produced a one-page mission statement for the european union, which i commend to you. nine points says all that needs to be said: that european integration has been a success and that we must continue. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is a fairly typical morning in euroland: everybody is busy slapping themselves on the back and saying what a fantastic success the last 50 years have been. there is almost a religious belief that these institutions can deal with the world’s problems, so much so that one or two speakers here think that the berlin declaration may even be able to control the weather in the future! however, i have noticed a slight change of emphasis: you are all talking much more now about freedom, democracy, rights and values, as if it was the european union that had invented these very things. i suspect you are doing that because you do not want to do the real critical analysis of whether this project is working. just think of the economics. the united states of america reached the eu’s current level of gdp per capita in 1985. perhaps, more significantly, the usa reached current eu levels for per capita research and development investment in 1978. we are an entire economic generation behind the united states of america. the social model is not working and yet the solution seems to be that we want more of it – more regulation, more rules – and, i am afraid, economically this project is falling even further behind. on the politics, i grant you: you have your big shiny buildings in brussels, strasbourg and luxembourg, and you have managed to take over more than 75% of the nation states’ ability to make the laws. however, you have forgotten something: you have forgotten about the people, you have forgotten about public opinion. you have been losing referendums and you have chosen to ignore the results. this deceitful attempt of the german presidency behind closed doors to put together a package that can be rammed through the member states without a referendum is a recipe for failure. if you go on with this, you will breed the very intolerance and extremism that you say you want to stop. i urge you, please, to ask the peoples of europe whether or not they want this project. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, this berlin declaration fails to recognise that the eu is making us poorer and less democratic and less free. it seeks to dodge the one huge issue that is really exercising heads of government across the eu: this is the elephant in the room, and it is called the european constitution. in 2005 the peoples of france and holland voted decisively against the eu constitution and in its own terms, it should now be dead, finished, kaput. but, like dracula or frankenstein, it refuses to lie down. our president-in-office, the german chancellor angela merkel, without a backward glance at the voters of france and holland, is determined to bring it back in all its essentials. we know what the plan is and we will make sure that the people know. first, the council will take out all the elements which cause offence but are merely restatements of the status quo. why upset the voters with talk of the supremacy of eu law when that supremacy already exists de facto? the very word ‘constitution’ has caused alarm in itself, so they will say it is merely a treaty, or even a mini-treaty. they will use every possible device of procedure and national constitutional law and timing to ensure that no referendums take place, or that they take place only in small countries when all the large countries have ratified. already we see the labour government in britain softening up the public before it breaks its solemn pledge to hold a referendum. ‘it is only about administrative details,’ it will say, ‘it does not justify a referendum’. we boast about being a union of values based on democracy and the rule of law, yet in this process we show breathtaking contempt for the people and their views. we are trampling on their identity and their aspirations. we are defying the rule of law and democracy, but you cannot fool all of the people, all of the time. when the backlash comes – as it surely will come – it will sweep away this failing european project.
mr president, ever since i came to this house, i have heard repeated promises of cutting red tape, be it from the commission, the council or indeed from parliament itself. from this summit, we have now yet another war declared on bureaucracy. that is good. indeed, one wishes that famed german efficiency would drive it forward. however, i fear that will not happen, because, as in the past, i suspect that these promises will not be delivered. this is because we are dealing with eu edifices which are veritable factories of regulation. indeed, at the same summit, a whole new front of regulation was opened up under the guise of tackling climate change – even down to the point of dictating the type of light bulbs that nation states and citizens can use! where, one might ask, are these bulbs likely to be manufactured? probably in china, thanks, in part, to over-regulation driving our manufacturers to take flight eastwards, where the uncontrolled factories manufacturing them will belch out even greater co2 emissions. frankly, we never enforce restrictions about such matters in our trade agreements with china. rather, we seem to reserve such punitive measures for our own industry. such is the self-defeating merry-go-round that is this regulation-crazed european union. speaking of merry-go-rounds brings me to the manoeuvrings at the summit over the rejected constitution. so, chancellor merkel thinks eu citizens can be bypassed and hoodwinked: if the title ‘constitution’ is dropped, then we can avoid even asking the electorate. what a coup for democracy! what a cowardly farce! what a commentary on the eu elite and their arrogant contempt for the people whose interests they claim to serve. the fact that the eu is running away from its own citizens tells us all we need to know about its worth and value as we approach the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, which, of course, spawned this insatiable lust for brussels domination and control.
mr president, a few months ago, i met some young people in my constituency and they asked me what the eu is doing about climate change. i have to say that i gave a list of the bits of legislation and how we were tackling it, but it sounded a bit thin to me and i could see on their faces that they thought it was a bit thin as well. asked again today, i would be much more confident about what i was saying to them. europe now has a story to tell on climate change. we have a policy fit for purpose, up to the challenge. i want to add my congratulations to the council for its success last week and to the commission – commissioners verheugen and dimas – for putting together a comprehensive package. now we have got to live up to that package and that is not going to be easy. the targets we agreed are tough. there are a lot of issues to be resolved. burden-sharing has just been mentioned. i understand that there is some issue about the legal base of the renewables targets. i want to say that this parliament would want to be fully involved in any talks about those targets. as regards biofuels, we want them, but not at the expense of the developing world. tackling climate change must be part of the fight against poverty, not exacerbate that fight. r&d investment needs to be tackled as well. so, we have to be coherent, we have to cooperate and we also have to stay committed to this challenge. i think that last week the eu found a renewed sense of common purpose. it showed it could act decisively on a key issue that our citizens care about. i think in that sense that it began to make the elusive connection with citizens that people are always talking about. we are celebrating our fiftieth birthday this year. i hope that, when we come to celebrate our hundredth birthday, future generations will look back at last week’s summit and see it as a turning point, when the eu began to work together, tackle the big issues of our times and regain the confidence of its citizens.
mr president, i wish to congratulate all concerned on a successful summit. it is quite rare for the leader of the british conservative delegation to offer full praise after a european council, but this time it is justified and i am delighted to do it. in reaching agreement on cutting eu greenhouse gases in this way, the council has shown leadership on probably the most important issue facing our planet, that of the threat of climate change. i sincerely hope that the leadership displayed on this issue by member states will result in broader international action. the leader of my party, who has done much to put this issue at the centre of the political debate in the united kingdom, also welcomes this agreement and is delighted to see the new-found enthusiasm of mr blair and mr brown. europe, in taking a lead on this matter, not only sends a strong signal to the global community but also sends a message to our own people that the eu can make a difference. the news from brussels so often concerns arcane institutional issues that do not relate to the lives of people. this agreement on climate change is a good one and i hope members of parliament will take note of it when we next have a debate on institutional machinery. i should like to ask, in this regard, what proposals there are to improve the eu emissions scheme, as well as for confirmation that this will not require major institutional reform. when might we see a breakdown of country-by-country allocations on the targets for renewable energy as a share of energy consumption? with regard to the conclusions, i also welcome the progress made on better regulation. i simply add that i would like to see more action on deregulation in particular. the president of the commission, mr barroso, is to be congratulated on taking a lead on this vital matter for european competitiveness. finally, i express my support for the emphasis in the conclusions on the transatlantic economic and political relationship and, in particular, chancellor merkel’s personal commitment to a new transatlantic economic relationship.
mr president, the decisions of the council were ambitious and the unanimity quite remarkable. the devil is going to be in the detail and i suspect there will not be anything like so much agreement when the burden-sharing proposals are announced, and some of the specific targets are open to challenge, not least by environmentalists. the biofuels target, for example, has got to be a mistake when there is so much evidence that it makes better use to use biocrops in generating electricity than in powering cars. let us not pretend that our demand for biofuels is not going to have an effect on tropical rainforests. we cannot even prevent the import into this country of illegally cropped wood, let alone stop the expansion of palm oil plantations. it is going to have an effect and i hope that all the energy proposals in this package will be put through the codecision procedure to ensure that parliamentarians have a chance to influence them in some way. carping aside, the overall direction is good and the objectives are noble. the european union has taken on the mantle here of an evangelist seeking to alert the rest of the world to the dangers of climate change and to bring about a post-2012 international agreement involving at the very least china, india and the united states. at the latest we have to try to forge this post-2012 agreement by the conference of parties in 2009, and quite a transformation in attitudes in these other countries is going to be needed if we are to achieve that. we are going to have to try and influence every opinion-former, the media, every parliamentarian, business leaders as well as government ministers if that is to be secured. i do not believe these resources exist, certainly not in dg environment, perhaps not in the entire commission. they do exist in europe, however, if we pool our resources across all 27 member states, our diplomats and our politicians and our businesses in a concerted campaign to change minds and secure success. we should think of it like this and try and put it in these dramatic terms to concentrate the mind. we have less than 1000 days in which to save the world and secure an international agreement of this kind. that is our task and it is going to need all our resources. we need to build on the council’s decision and inject a sense of zeal, passion and urgency into our work, if it is to be achieved.
mr president, the summit concluded that the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs is ‘beginning to deliver results’. it is about time, because the fanfare surrounding the launch of that strategy has not exactly been matched by spectacular results to date. most businesses, in particular smaller enterprises, which make up the majority of employers, quite rightly complain that excessive red tape hampers their operation and development. i therefore welcome the summit’s commitment to a 25 % reduction in eu-imposed red tape by 2012, and i hope that will be met. but it is a pity that the member states did not commit themselves to similar reductions in red tape through domestic legislation. most attention has been given to the summit commitments on energy efficiency and renewable energy; admirable targets for energy saving have been set. however, i hope that any new legislation will be sensitive to local circumstances. for example, in transport, due account must be taken of the fact that, where i come from and in most of rural scotland, there exists no realistic alternative to road transport for goods.
mr president, i am delighted the council agreed that the administrative burden arising from eu legislation should be reduced by 25% by 2012, as another speaker mentioned. i also welcome the fact that the council has called for a group of independent experts to advise on better regulation. this is vital. however, i would like to go even further and have independent impact assessments as a matter of course for all legislation. in the employment field, legislation should be brought forward at eu level only if it cannot be done successfully at local or national level. an average small business owner already spends roughly 28 hours per month filling in forms as a result of legislation. health and safety legislation should be brought forward only if medical and scientific evidence demonstrates the need for it, as is the case for an amendment to directive 2000/54/ec on biological agents, to protect health workers from needlestick injuries.
mr president, there has been a lot of praise for the council, particularly on the energy package, but i want to note another significant landmark, which for me personally is a very important one. since i came to this house in 1999, i have been making speeches regularly following the brussels summit, asking for the internal market and its completion to be given top priority. thank you, president-in-office, for making it the first action on the first page of your communiqué. more importantly, i am really pleased that the council has affirmed the importance of completing the internal market in the context of europe3s response to globalisation. why do i say this is of such great importance? president-in-office, i was privileged to be rapporteur when we held the meeting of national parliamentarians, which you attended, on the whole of the lisbon agenda. those parliamentarians were telling us that this is the message we need to get across to our electors. our governments and our prime ministers, however, are not giving us a great deal of help in communicating this message about the fundamental importance of the internal market. they said the same thing about the four freedoms in the internal market, and that has been mentioned here as well. president-in-office, i would like you to go back to the ministers and say, ‘help your parliamentarians to communicate this important message to their electors’. let me link that also to two important proposals that are mentioned here. one is a proposal i know a lot about – the services directive. the second one is the really important proposal from mr verheugen about dealing with issues relating to product markets. president-in-office, i just want to say to you that the prime ministers should go back from this council and ask for the files of all the cases pending before the court of justice where individual countries are infringing the treaties in respect of the free movement of goods and services. all they need to do is to deal with all of those cases. this could be done between now and the next summit and it would make the biggest single improvement to the internal market, without us having to do any more legislative work. let us have action, not words in this case.
in writing. – i welcome the statement made by the commission setting ambitious targets for reduction in carbon emissions by 20% by 2020 and for the increasing use of renewable energy forms. climate change is a global issue and we will need to work together to reduce global warming, not only within europe, but with north america and asia. i believe that these targets are achievable, but they need to be regularly monitored. i believe that the best way to do that is through strict monitoring and annual reporting. member states must also be responsible for providing detailed action plans of how they will meet these targets.
mr president, i beg the indulgence of the house. i wish to draw the attention of the house to the appalling situation in zimbabwe. we look with horror and enormous frustration at the images of how a peaceful assembly is brutally dealt with in mugabe’s country. i understand the opposition leader, morgan tsvangirai, has been released from detention, but he has a fractured skull. grace kwinjeh, the opposition representative in brussels, has had part of her ear cut off while in custody. i know that the president-in-office of the council has expressed condemnation of what has happened, but can we take more concrete action? in particular, i call upon the presidency to use its influence to persuade the south african government and the other sadc governments to take a more principled position and act to bring about urgent change for the better in zimbabwe. wringing our hands is not enough. (applause)
in writing. today i voted in favour of amendment 12 of the above report to exempt 8 to 12 month old meat marketed as beef from the rules set out in this piece of legislation. such an exemption should be granted to benefit uk meat producers in terms of cost reduction and alleviation from burdensome procedures by removing the need for separate batching at each stage of the production process. i see no justification for this added requirement and therefore hope to see an exemption granted.
in writing. i voted for this report, which simplifies all the existing ilo conventions and recommendations since 1919 into a single text. i am pleased that a possible deadline of 2010 has been set for the ratification by member states, as the european community is not a party to the ilo or this convention and it is important that each member state ratifies the ilo recommendations.
in writing. i voted for this report, which calls on the commission to consider the proposal for a sector-specific directive in the field of social services of general interest, given that they can't be associated with the rules governing commercial services in the eu. social services need to remain of high quality and accessible for all and the rules governing provision need to be set in legislation.
president, my uk labour colleagues and i did not support some items in this resolution and we voted against it in the final vote because we believe that the draft agreement is far too imbalanced in favour of the united states of america. if this draft is accepted by the council in its present form, the us airlines will have virtually complete access to the eu internal market, whilst european airlines will still not be able to fly internally in the us. in addition, us interests will be able to own up to 49 % voting stock in eu airlines, whilst the reciprocal agreement allows just 25 % voting stock for eu interests in us airlines. so the draft agreement, to my mind, is little better than the one from november 2005, which both council and commission said was imbalanced. as the americans achieved their prime negotiating goals in this draft agreement, there will, i suggest, be little incentive for them to liberalise further in the future. i am afraid that it is the uk that pays the price for this deal. it grants hard traffic rights to the us airlines with full access to heathrow, which is already 40 % of the transatlantic market, and despite the fact that four airlines – not just american – fly across the atlantic from heathrow already. so i think that, for the uk and for the whole of the european union, this is a very poor deal.
in writing. uk conservatives are in favour of opening the aviation market to further competition and to agreeing an open skies policy with the united states. however, the proposals being discussed from the recent negotiations perpetuate an imbalance favouring the united states. agreements of this kind should be totally reciprocal giving european airlines the same rights across the atlantic as those given to us carriers in the european union. the commission has made progress but we need more - and soon. for this reason, the british conservative delegation has abstained.
in writing. i voted for this resolution in which safety and sustainability are emphasised as two important goals for the agreement between the eu and the usa. i think it will be important to restore a proper balance of interests between the eu and the us following the decision of the department of transportation to withdraw its rulemaking on actual control of us carriers.
in writing. i voted for this resolution as there are serious concerns about the risk of proliferation and it is important to revive and strengthen the non-proliferation treaty (npt). the eu has adopted a common position on non-proliferation that constitutes a positive platform for a stronger effort in this field, notably by pursuing an effective multilateralism.
in writing. the possession of nuclear weapons has been a key element of the united kingdom’s defence posture for the past 54 years. given today’s dangerous world and the unpredictability of threats in the future, it would be foolish to take any decisions that would weaken our ability to maintain an independent british nuclear deterrent or the credibility of our deterrent policy. for the relatively small investment of less than 3 % of the uk defence budget over a 20-year period, the uk can maintain a vital defence capability. the uk is recognised as a legitimate nuclear weapon state under the non-proliferation treaty (npt) and conservatives support the aim of eventual global nuclear disarmament as set out in article vi of the npt. however, we are firmly against any unilateral nuclear disarmament that would expose our nation and its people to risk and leave our strategic defence entirely in the hands of others. decisions that affect the security of the united kingdom, its territory and citizens, are the responsibility of her majesty’s government and not the european union. most of today’s resolution is surprisingly uncontroversial and the extreme amendments placed by the left were defeated. however, we could not support any text welcoming the efforts of international fellow-travellers of the so-called campaign for nuclear disarmament such as the ‘parliamentary network on nuclear disarmament’ (recital e). we therefore abstained in the vote on the resolution as a whole.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, my party favours free trade and establishing good relations. no doubt europeans wish that for mediterranean countries, and this morning president-in-office steinmeier expressed the view that the eu should deliver in areas where people want it to. but they are also entitled to ask how their money is spent, including the eur 5350 million on euromed in the period up to 2007. considering all the other calls on resources, they might question the value of that, especially when we add funds for combating climate change. here an enormous amount of money is to be spent on chasing moonbeams, for the scientific evidence is very suspect, further discredited by the unscientific, emotional and theatrical way it is presented. if that classes me as a heretic, i hope i do not suffer the fate of abdel kareem, sentenced to four years in jail in egypt for criticising both his government and the violent radicals in his country. bearing in mind that we were asked earlier today to support eu action against the horrendous mugabe regime, perhaps those who manage euromed funds might consider that some of this money is going to countries harbouring significant groups who have yet to renounce violence.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on bringing this report to plenary. the question of trade in the mediterranean is, of course, an extremely important and historic one, and the commissioner was right to reflect on the wider dimension of our relations with the southern shores of the mediterranean. indeed, it is a matter of great concern to me that, as he mentioned, the agreement just signed with egypt was done against a background of very considerable repression in that country, the most important in the region. in late january i tried to visit dr ayman nour in prison. he is one of two parliamentarians currently in prison in cairo – indeed, in the same prison. it highlights the failure, in a way, of the eu to stand by the principles which we are supposed to represent here in this house. i refer to this because, as has been remarked, there is to be a meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly this weekend in tunis and, as a vice-president of this house, i am privileged to work on that dossier. one of the elements that we could begin to think about in the context of that assembly is the evolution of a more real parliament. i am the chairman of a working party that deals with the financing and organisation of the empa, and proposals for reform are indeed going to the meeting in tunis. but one of the areas that we have not yet been able to take forward is the question of the creation of political families in the assembly so as to normalise the political debate away from the important, but nevertheless existential, questions of the middle east, to the more mundane, but nevertheless terribly important issues of trade, of environment, of commerce, of transport – so many of the day-to-day issues which, i believe, should preoccupy us in our joint endeavours in making sense of our relationship across the mediterranean. in this way we could begin to make less relevant those radicalised islamic parties which are now the subject of so much attention in that part of the world.
thank you, president-in-office, for your answer. i, for one, was very happy with it, but deliberately did not say very much. however, as you are talking about a consultation process, will you accept that, as part of the consultation, you should listen to those who think that a revisiting of a constitution or, indeed, a constitutional treaty is not a very good idea? we look forward to your report, but please open your minds to excluding, as well as including, certain things. do you accept that, sir?
deputising for the author. – the allegation is that a british company, bae systems, corruptly paid bribes in order to win a competitive advantage over other european defence contractors in saudi arabia and that an independent investigation of this behaviour has been stopped by the uk government. surely this not only breaches countless principles of the european union, but also competition policy rules as well. has the council considered calling on the commission to take infringement action against the uk government, and if not, why not? what does it take to get the council to point the finger at one of its own members?
thank you for that reply, president-in-office. the council will be aware that a new vaccine is now available that can protect thousands of women against cervical cancer. in fact, estimates indicate that about 32 000 cancers in women could be prevented by this vaccine. given this, can the council assure this house that a vaccination programme will be implemented as widely as possible throughout all 27 of the eu member states, and can you also give assurances that a comprehensive programme of education and information will be implemented to ensure that all parents are fully aware of the benefits of such a programme?
the president of the council. i'd like to avoid any blame, my dear justas paleckis. we have not done that in any other accession process. we have always said that there is one thing under the copenhagen criteria which says that good neighbourly relations must be organised. the problems with the neighbours - that's a prerequisite - must be solved. unless a country asks us to act in some way, we assume that it is trying to solve these problems itself, because this is a prerequisite for the enlargement process and the accession process in general. we should not pursue a different policy with croatia at this stage from that which we have pursued in the past with the 12 countries, all of which have solved these neighbourhood and border problems on their own responsibility. the same applies to the baltic states, although unfortunately there are still some things to be regulated afterwards. but this is a good practice that should not be deviated from.
the president of the council. i am grateful to the president-in-office for the opportunity to answer these questions together, which are in fact objectively linked. the answer is as follows: the council can confirm that the restrictive measures imposed on the government of zimbabwe will continue in their current form. on 19 february 2007, the contract was extended for a further year. the council has been closely following the situation in zimbabwe over the past year. it noted no improvement in the criteria it had set as a precondition for resuming dialogue. the council is following the humanitarian and social situation in zimbabwe with great attention. humanitarian aid, including food aid, shall be provided to the extent necessary. the council shall pay particular attention to the human rights situation in zimbabwe. in september 2006, violent attacks on trade union demonstrators were cited as an occasion for a statement calling on the government of zimbabwe to 'cease the intimidation and attacks and respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens'. in this context, the eu has explicitly referred to the african charter on human and peoples' rights, to which zimbabwe is a signatory. the presidency has responded immediately with a statement to the violent disruption of a peaceful christian-sponsored demonstration in harare on 11 march 2007, in which one participant was killed, several injured and many arrested. it expressed concern at the criminalization of this peaceful event by the zimbabwean authorities and called for the immediate release of those arrested, their access to legal aid and the provision of medical assistance. the crisis in zimbabwe has for years had undeniably negative economic and social effects on the whole region. as regards the role of south africa, the council expects that this country will follow closely political, economic and social developments in zimbabwe and will work to resolve the problem through the means available to south africa.
deputising for the author. – mr president, the extension of the restrictions in zimbabwe is very welcome, but given the catalogue of human rights abuses, including the recent mistreatment of morgan tsvangirai and his colleagues, and given the possibility that the current regime may well remain in place after elections at the end of this month, how does the council intend to handle the african union’s insistence that all its member states participate in the eu-africa summit, scheduled for lisbon in december?
the president of the council. thank you for your inquiries. i might like to start - since this is very topical - with the fate of opposition leader morgan tsvangirai. according to the latest information, the fourteen unharmed detainees after appearing in court as requested have now been sent home, because the court apparently found that it had no grounds for action at all. this does not yet apply to morgan tsvangirai, who has obviously been seriously injured. the latest information is that he suffered a fractured skull and severe blood loss. he's in the intensive care unit right now. eleven other detainees were also injured and were therefore unable to appear for the custody hearing - to put it in modern terms. her fate is still uncertain. we're assuming, of course, that they'll be released, along with the other uninjured. i would like to emphasise once again that the presidency of the council has expressed its deep concern at these abuses and the serious injuries suffered by leading opposition figures: 'the presidency reiterates the responsibility of the zimbabwean government for the safety and security of those detained and will continue to closely monitor developments in zimbabwe.' we are therefore determined to remain active here in the face of these dramatic developments. i would like to make two other points in this connection. one is actually the behaviour of other african states. of course, there is information about the mugabe regime in other african countries, and it is also clear that this dramatic development in zimbabwe, with unemployment at 80% and inflation at over 5000%, is having a dangerous impact on the whole region. but precisely because this development is so dangerous, different countries react very differently. we have not had a uniform response from the african world. for example, south africa, which is mentioned in the question, is still relying on quiet diplomacy and wants to avoid a break between the states - especially with such an important neighbouring state. there are certainly economic interests behind this. we also notice that there is a reciprocal process here. the stronger the international pressure and condemnation of the mugabe regime in zimbabwe, the more the african states become reticent, the more they practice what they themselves may call african solidarity. we simply have to acknowledge this and try to deal with the situation wisely. this brings me to the other supplementary question, which relates to the preparations for the eu-africa summit in lisbon scheduled for december. at the moment - and this is what we see as the most important task for our presidency - the main priority is the preparation of the content of this important summit. we have a number of other difficult african issues which will certainly require our attention this year, and that is why we believe that in the first half of the year we must make substantial preparations for this summit. the decision on who will be invited to the summit will be made much later, and that is why we will be watching very carefully what is happening in zimbabwe at the moment. but a decision on who should be invited has not yet been made. that is why i cannot answer that question at the moment.
minister, i think we would all welcome the renewal of the sanctions against zimbabwe, but it is clear that much more needs to be done, not least in the light of the wanton abuses of human rights demonstrated by last week’s actions against the opposition. will the council in particular maximise pressure on zimbabwe’s neighbours? are they not the key to this matter? you talk euphemistically about south africa applying silent diplomacy, but is the truth of the matter not that south africa has been propping up this regime for years, and that you are being far too timid in your response to south africa and need to apply real pressure there?
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome the green paper as it is clear that our trade defence instruments are in need of reform. the vast majority of stakeholders are unhappy with the status quo. as they stand, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations lack transparency, consistency, objectivity and are over-politicised and inappropriate to the realities of a modern economy adapting to the forces of globalisation. while it is probably impossible to create a totally objective process, there can and must be improvements to the current investigation procedure in order to depoliticise it and ensure that the interests of all european citizens are best served. in order to do this, as the commissioner has indicated, we must redefine and give greater weight to the community interest. if the european union is to become more relevant to people’s lives, it must take genuine steps to look after citizens’ interests. this, of course, means the protection of jobs against unfair and anti-competitive behaviour. however, too often the narrow interests of an outspoken group of producers have won out against the interests of the millions of consumers who stand to gain from the process of globalisation and whose voice has often not been heard. moreover, the potential damage to european companies who set up global supply chains in order to remain competitive in a globalised economy must also be given greater consideration when considering the community interest. in terms of the process of anti-dumping investigations, there is widespread dissatisfaction across stakeholders with the access they currently enjoy even to non-confidential documents and information. the use of analogue countries must also be questioned. i am referring in particular to last year’s shoe case where the brazilian economy was used to make comparisons with china, whereas in reality their two economies are as comparable as their football teams. i would also be eager for the commission to investigate the viability of expanding trade defence instruments to deter environmental and social dumping in order to ensure that an unfair advantage is not obtained through the abuse of the environment or through failure to ensure decent labour standards.
mr president, colleagues: you lost. the charter of fundamental rights would have been given legal force by the european constitution but that constitution, it seems necessary periodically to remind this house, was rejected. 55% of french voters and 62% of dutch voters said ‘no’. simply to disregard those results and carry on as if the charter were in force would be outrageous, yet that is precisely what you propose to do. indeed, it is precisely what you are doing. as the voggenhuber report cheerfully admits, the various institutions of the eu are proceeding as if the charter were already justiceable. indeed, this report may be summarised as an attempt to regularise an illegal and undemocratic extension of eu jurisdiction. i hope we can take it as read that every one of us here believes in basic civil liberties. we all support freedom of speech, freedom of worship, freedom of assembly and so on. but some of us object to the way in which these vital matters are being lifted out of the hands of our accountable national governments and subjected to the whims of european judges. the eu is wanting, not in its respect for basic human rights, but in its respect for democracy. paper entitlements, unaccompanied by democratic accountability, are meaningless. the principles adumbrated in the charter of fundamental rights could equally be found in, say, the constitution of east germany or that of the soviet union, but as the peoples of those unhappy states knew, written charters are worthless if you cannot hold your rulers to account. do we really need to learn that lesson again in the eu?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, what is the best way of increasing living standards and human and civil rights in central american and the andean community countries? the question could equally well be applied to the whole of central and south america and the rest of the economically developing world. it is in the long-term self-interest of the economically developed and democratic world to use its economic strength to promote economic growth and democracy in the developing world. the best way to do this is by reducing trade barriers worldwide and by concluding trade and cooperation agreements conditional on respect for the rule of law, respect for property and contract rights and respect for human and civil rights. we have seen how china, even while under the yoke of a dictatorial communist regime, can nevertheless achieve staggering economic development when it embraces capitalist, free-market practices. capitalism, for all its faults, works. it delivers prosperity, choice and the conditions required for democracy and civilised values. socialism, for all its idealism, does not work. it delivers oppression, lack of choice and material and political stagnation. so what the developing countries of the world need is not to follow the example of the quasi-marxist european union. they do not need what these reports recommend, which is the export of the worst features of the european union: economic and political integration and harmonised legislation. the last thing that these countries need is to follow the example of the failing economic model and increasingly centralised european union, with its increasingly undemocratic and unaccountable political institutions. these reports call for free trade – which is good – but that must not be conditional on recreating the failing structures of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, commissioner, the alde group thanks mr musotto for his very valuable report on the natural and economic constraints affecting islands. all the topics covered merit full attention, but i should like to concentrate on issues relating to state aid and paragraphs 8, 9 and 19. the reason has to do with the realities of life on islands, particularly those remote from centres of population. the examples are from my own constituency, but resonate across the whole of the eu. to emphasise the problem of distance, it takes a friend from the shetland islands a 14-hour journey by car and ferry to reach the nearest cinema. the price of petrol is some 11% higher in the western isles than in scotland’s central belt. this rises to around 16% for the shetland islands. a bale of hay costs five times as much in the western isles as it does just outside the nearest city of inverness. facts like these only begin to illustrate how far matters of location alone can place islands at a competitive disadvantage. i thank the commissioner for what she said about state aid, but a more flexible regime is still needed simply to level the playing field. i have particular concerns, as she knows, with the market investor test. again, the realities of life on islands and in other remote regions make this test very difficult to satisfy, as no appropriate comparator may be available and the small size of the market creates problems where the average level of return for a given sector is concerned. all we seek in this context is for our islands to enjoy access to the single market on equal terms with mainland regions.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to add my own congratulations to the rapporteur and thank him for his very constructive approach to our amendments as we were working on this in the committee. i am very pleased to support his report today. coming from scotland i have a particular interest and a particular perspective, as other scots colleagues do, and i would remind colleagues firstly that peripherality is relative. brussels is actually pretty peripheral if i am looking for scottish football scores on a saturday. islands have a distinctive culture, a distinctive identity and a distinctive geography, which is something to celebrate, not pity. if the playing field is level, there is nothing wrong with europe’s islands that will not be put right by what is right with europe’s islands in their dynamism, their innovation and their potential contribution to the eu’s objectives. if malta was in central europe with good transport links and easy links to the rest of europe, then it would not be malta any more, it would be munich. we must celebrate europe’s islands as well as recognise their distinctiveness. being an island means that there are specific issues which need to be dealt with and this report makes a number of solid suggestions. i hope that our commissioner will give us specific assurances today that this report will be acted upon because there are a lot of good ideas in it and i would hope that this would not become another wish list that the commission pays lip service to but does not necessarily do very much with. i would like to highlight a few specific points. islands have specific disbenefits in interaction with the european union single market and we must have up-to-date, accurate statistics in order to inform policy. can our commissioner assure us that we will work with eurostat in order to make this happen? in paragraphs 12 and 16 of our report, we call for the creation of a specific cross-cutting administrative unit within the directorate-general for regional policy to deal with islands. this already exists in respect of outermost regions. the case for a specific unit dealing with islands is very clear. can our commissioner assure us that this will actually happen? on state aid, as other colleagues have mentioned, we must see a more realistic approach from the commission in assessing state aid criteria for islands. islands have specific economic factors which are not currently sufficiently taken into account and i would welcome an assurance from our commissioner that we will review policy on this. concerning state aid cuts, particularly in the field of transport to, from and within islands, in scotland our own government has just squandered eur 25 million on a very wasteful tender in respect of ferry services. this mistake was largely domestic in origin, but the complexity of the interlocking eu rules did not help and we must take a look at this again. we also need to look in particular at public service obligations and aid of a social character in terms of how they are viewed in respect of article 87(2) of the treaty. the position of road equivalent tariff must also be clarified. on energy, islands have a clear natural advantage and we would like to see the commission use all means available to encourage sustainable energy communities, in particular the european grid, and the abolition of domestic constraints. in scotland with shetland, orkney, the western isles and argyle and bute we have the best wind, wave and tidal resources in the eu and a vast potential contribution to make to the eu’s energy and climate change objectives, but we are not developing these resources because we have seen insufficient investment in the grid. if the eu is serious about meeting the climate change challenges, invest in interconnectors to the scottish islands and the scottish islands will make a vast contribution to our objectives. similarly, the uk government is holding us back in terms of a discriminatory pricing system in access to the national grid in the uk. simply, the further away from the main market, the higher the connection charge is to feed electricity into the uk national grid. i am firmly of the view that this is discriminatory under article 7(6) of the 2001 renewable energy directive and i believe that the commission must open formal proceedings against the uk for holding us back. the islands have a vast contribution to make and they can make it. there is nothing wrong with europe’s islands that will not be put right by what is right with them, but we must ensure the playing field is level.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, so, we need another initiative do we? this time for island people. actually, island people are by nature resourceful. they are all still there, but they need help where the eu has interfered. last year this parliament approved the resumption of licences for eu fishing fleets to plunder the waters of western sahara. unable to compete with the modern vessels of the eu, these people sought work elsewhere, and the canary islands began to experience the trauma of massive illegal immigration. graphically displayed on tv, boatloads of west africans were seen trying to make their way across the atlantic, their misery compounded as dozens died when their inshore craft could not cope with the open sea. once this eu-inspired exodus began, people from neighbouring countries followed suit, making it worse. malta faces the same problem of mass immigration. of course it does: the eu’s high tariff barriers depress trade, with the poorer countries of northern and eastern africa being hard hit, so off they go to try their luck in europe using malta as a staging post. pouring aid into malta is not the answer. it is the tariff barriers: bring those down, trade improves and most people in africa will be able to make a living without moving home. if you persist with a closed shop of 27 eu countries when there is a whole world out there just waiting to engage in trade with europe, then the problems of your own making will continue. do i see in the report that eu islands, especially in the outermost regions, might be used as sources of renewable energy? i suppose that means we intend to plant these ridiculous wind farms on them. well, that is one way of driving the indigenous population away, and all for useless turbines producing insignificant amounts of power at unpredictable times, located on remote islands so as to ensure that much of their pitiful output is lost in transmission. i notice that islands are said to be vulnerable to rising sea levels: another dimension of the hysterical, doom-laden warnings of the ‘global warmers’. it is not happening on the scale that has been claimed. and it is natural. it has happened before. the world experiences cycles of warming and cooling. in the medieval warm period it was hotter than now, and for decades. there are enough records of these hotter events, such as certain crops growing where never before, but there are no records of islands disappearing beneath the waves. it is about time we all calmed down and realised that minimal global warming is naturally occurring in a cycle that has no input from man. we should simply adapt as nature intended. in conclusion, let us stop interfering. leave successful islands alone. where help is needed, for third world islands or otherwise, let trade be their aid. the eu’s protectionist attitude is no long-term help, it is just sticking plaster and that always peels off after a while.
mr president, an island holiday may be the stuff of dreams in terms of getting away from it all, but living and working on islands can pose many difficulties, and we should acknowledge this in our policy-making. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr musotto, on his report, which outlines the natural and economic constraints faced by islands in the context of regional policy. the report deals with the singular difficulties that many islands face in competing successfully with their counterparts on the mainland. the report usefully identifies categories of islands: some are large – 5 island regions have populations exceeding 500 000 and account for 75% of the european island population – whilst the remainder are much smaller. i am more familiar with the problems faced by smaller islands, such as those off the coast of my native scotland. for example, only this week it has been reported that twice as many young women than men are leaving the hebrides. if this continues, the population will not be sustainable from 2019. as mr musotto’s report outlines, there are also common difficulties faced by islands, for example higher prices, difficult terrain, remoteness and poor infrastructure. i support the call for these problems to be recognised in regional policy.
mr president, i come from the united kingdom and of course we have several large islands there. but we also have the western islands of scotland and these were briefly mentioned by my colleagues from the scottish part of the united kingdom. you will know, mr president, when you were president of the malta delegation, as does mr busuttil, that malta is suffering a lot of illegal immigration at the moment. this is a matter that needs urgent attention, as mr berend pointed out. i go each year to the canary islands. they too have suffered enormous immigration. illegal immigration from africa has already been mentioned this morning. but i want to emphasise in my speech today two paragraphs. one has the full support of the british conservatives, that is paragraph 26, which talks about the need to really home in on this very important matter of illegal immigration. but there is another, paragraph 25, which mr berend mentioned, where i dispute and disagree with some of the findings or recommendations put forward by the rapporteur in what is otherwise a very excellent report. first of all, the report mentions rapid border intervention teams with the purpose of providing swift operational technical assistance to any member state requesting it. i agree that is very important, but when it goes on to say that it urges the commission to examine the need for the creation of a european coastguard body to assist in parallel these regions and the member states in monitoring the eu’s external borders, i think that is far too wide a remit. if the isolated islands want a concentrated coastguard specialist brigade helping them, fine, but not for the united kingdom, not for the bigger islands. we do not want too large an agency.
mr president, i have not withdrawn the amendment that i submitted, but i would be prepared to do so in exchange for a change to that oral amendment adding words along the lines of ‘for the duration within which the asylum seekers are having their cases considered by the authorities’, because otherwise they could stay in our countries indefinitely.
in writing. i voted for this resolution and welcome the commission initiative to launch a consultation procedure on the best form of community action with a view to providing a framework for cross-border aspects of health-care.
in writing. british conservatives have voted against this resolution on purely procedural grounds. we feel that this resolution represents an abuse of procedure. our vote should not be taken as an indication of british conservative mep views on the merits or otherwise of the particular case under consideration.
in writing. i voted for this resolution and wish to see an immediate ban on all illegal bird-hunting in malta
in writing. i will be supporting this report, despite the failure to include paragraph 21 in its original form: 'points out that, under european court human rights case law, the european states can in no circumstances send a person back to a state where he or she is likely to be subject to torture or cruel, degrading or inhuman treatment, including the death penalty.' i am disappointed that there was a small majority in this house in favour of excluding this important human rights principle.
in writing. i voted for this resolution. in particular, i am in favour of the amendments in line with the european court rulings which stated that no individuals should be sent where they are at risk of maltreatment, torture or capital punishment.
in writing. i voted for this report which puts forward several suggestions concerning the creation of a mutually beneficial euro-mediterranean fta. i believe that the implementation of economic and political reforms can be an opportunity for growth. in particular i am pleased that the report stated that the fta must look at countries’ specific economic and social characteristics to entitle them to protect their most vulnerable economic sectors, such as agriculture and public services.
in writing. i voted for this report and am pleased that there is an emphasis in the report on police reform and education.
in writing. i support this report on the basis that it makes proper recommendations in order to pursue justice and uphold peace in the region. i particularly commend the rapporteur for encouraging the authorities in bih to pursue wanted war crimes perpetrators and bring them to justice. i also welcome the recently submitted draft plan for the police structure reform as it lays down a balanced allocation of responsibilities at all levels, while ensuring transparency in selection of police chiefs and officers and for monitoring their work. here i also want to commend the work of the dedicated men and women of the royal ulster constabulary who helped train the local police force.
in writing. ukip have supported this amendment because it states very clearly the factual position that the constitutional treaty has been rejected and therefore should be abandoned. however, in no way does voting in this manner imply any support whatsoever for the political group that have tabled the amendment.
in writing. conservatives support the principle of having a charter of fundamental rights in place as an advisory declaration to member states. however, conservatives voted against this report as the issue was to make the charter legally binding (justiciable) across the whole union, which we are wholly opposed to.
in writing. i have supported this amendment because it states very clearly the factual position that the constitutional treaty has been rejected and therefore should be abandoned. however, in no way does voting in this manner imply any support whatsoever for the political group that tabled the amendment.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which looks at ways of improving the mechanisms for checking all eu legislation conforms with international human rights standards and fundamental rights are considered via impact assessment procedures as early as the draft commission proposal stage. in particular i am pleased that the report looks at ways of increasing the role of the parliament in the defence of fundamental rights and in ensuring eu legislation conforms with international human right standards.
in writing. i voted for this report as i support a balanced association agreement in which progressive trade liberalisation should be a tool (and not a goal) put at the service of the main objectives of the promotion of socioeconomic development, sustainable development and social cohesion. the political, economic and social deficit suffered by the central american countries deserves an agreement taking into account the asymmetries between both regions.
in writing. i voted for this report because it supports a balanced association agreement in which progressive trade liberalisation should be a tool (and not a goal) put at the service of the main objectives of the promotion of socioeconomic development, sustainable development and social cohesion.
mr president, i want to focus on just one aspect of the meyer pleite and yañez-barnuevo garcía reports, namely their support for regional integration in latin america. in last night’s debate, commissioner mandelson told this house that such integration is the key to growth and stability. he is entitled to his view, but no one in latin america has elected mr mandelson to anything – nor, come to that, has anyone in europe. as colleagues know, some states in central america in particular are complaining that brussels is making its trade and aid agreements conditional on their participation in regional structures. i do not question the sincerity of those in europe who insist that supranationalism is in everyone’s interests, but is it our place to tell other countries to mimic what the eu is doing? why is it that whenever we debate in this house say iraq or iran, members are quick to denounce washington for seeking to impose its values on the world, but when it comes to hectoring other states about the need to cede their sovereignty, brussels is suddenly keen to impose its values on the world? we cannot have it both ways.
in writing. british conservatives can welcome certain elements of this report such as the need to monitor the impact of illegal immigration on island communities. however, we cannot support the creation of rapid border intervention teams. nor can we support any moves towards the creation of a 'european coastguard body'. for these reasons, we have decided to abstain on the final vote.
in writing. i voted for this report. the importance of islands in major community policies is increasing with the expansion of the union. i am pleased that this issue remains on the agenda as it is still a challenge for the eu. this report has identified the main problems of islands, such as higher prices, lower salaries and difficulty of access to the single market.
in writing. i voted for this report as i believe it is crucial that communities have their aid delivered by the structures closest to them in order to achieve their millennium development goals. in particular, i am pleased that the report contains concrete suggestions for actions to be taken by the commission, most notably by increasing dialogue with local authorities on development aid, improving decentralisation of aid delivery and supporting structured dialogue between local authorities in the developing world and the eu.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, our commissioner is a reasonable and a humane man. he asks for time for research. we grant him that, but in return he should impose a moratorium on any imports of such seal products during that time. he says that the seal cull in canada is sustainable. it may be, but in 2006, 330 000 harp seals were killed and 95% of those were under three months old. a large number of those were then skinned alive, because 79% of sealers do not check adequately as to whether the pup is still conscious. the cull is cruel and it is not worthy of a civilised country. it is certainly not sustainable in a country like namibia. in namibia, which has the second largest seal hunt in the world, the quotas increase each year. in 2007 the quota was 91 000 and a combination of high quota and natural mortality of seals means that the entire pup population could be annihilated this year. seals are not killed for food; they are not really killed to protect fish stocks. they are killed for fashion, and europe is the market for that fashion. it is the key market for seal skin imports from canada. belgium has banned it. italy and luxembourg have temporarily banned it. the united kingdom and germany have called for an eu-wide ban. the european parliament in its written declaration has called for a permanent ban and the majority of members of this parliament have signed it. so please, commissioner, ‘yes’ to research, but ‘yes’ also to a moratorium now.
mr president, before the commissioner speaks, i just wonder if it is in order to put a supplementary question to him on the timing of his statement. it is over 25 years since the european parliament first raised this issue. when the commissioner very helpfully said that he would report back in the shortest possible time, could he be more specific as to exactly how long he anticipates that time might be?
mr president, i wanted to tell the house that one hour ago morgan tsvangirai was again arrested by the police and security forces in harare. he and his staff were about to have a news conference to discuss the events which you described in your speech. i would therefore like this house to condemn that re-arrest of morgan tsvangirai and to say that the brutality against the opposition has to stop. the southern african development community has to react at its meeting in tanzania this week. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – chancellor, i congratulate you on your achievements – text and consensus. your celebration of the union’s success was both timely and appropriate. it is largely to the european union that we owe the security, prosperity and opportunity our citizens enjoy. as we sat in berlin’s historisches museum on sunday morning, two things struck me. the first was your inspired move to engage the european youth orchestra for the occasion; it is first class and it deserves better financial support. the second was that of the 31 people on the platform – heads of state and government, presidents of the institutions et al – you were the only woman. it brought to mind a verse by the poet robert burns: ‘while europe’s eye is fixed on mighty things, the fate of empires and the fall of kings; while quacks of state must each produce his plan, and even children lisp the rights of man; amidst this mighty fuss just let me mention, the rights of woman merit some attention.’ chancellor, you set us an example: we need more women at the highest levels in politics. (applause) indeed, in current circumstances, perhaps only a woman could have secured agreement. however, i cannot congratulate you on the procedure you chose: a text drafted in the catacombs of the bundeskanzleramt and signed by the presidents of the three main institutions should not have the temerity to open with the words ‘we, the citizens of the european union’. for it is the citizens of the european union who need to be re-engaged in the task of building europe. president barroso was right when he said that the institutions must respect diversity, but the member states must promote unity. the impressive festivities in berlin were replicated in too few other european capitals. until all your colleagues in the european council actively argue the case for europe, day in and day out, no solid foundation will exist. nor does it help, chancellor, for the european people’s party, your party, to claim all the credit for building this union. the drafters of this vainglorious epp declaration rightly praise monnet, de gasperi and kohl, but their memory is selective at best. thatcher, chirac, berlusconi: they were all epp leaders too, but you seem to have overlooked their contributions. the union is not the project of one political party. it belongs to us all. (applause) we hope, chancellor, that the berlin declaration will herald a new departure. we look to the intergovernmental conference you have secured to put in place the institutional building blocks of the union’s future. the new europe, the europe berlin envisages, should be one where the union helps its citizens to grasp the opportunities of globalisation and shows them solidarity in facing new global challenges; one where democracy has the upper hand, and our values have the final word. (applause)
mr president, when you peel away all the self-congratulatory verbiage, in reality, this berlin declaration in many areas amounts to very little in terms of substance. in pursuit of the central tenet of the treaty of rome of securing ever-closer union, which the declaration is supposed to celebrate, many euro-enthusiasts had seen it as a key landmark to relaunching the rejected constitution. when it came, however, after all the secrecy, the declaration was not even able to mention the constitution. instead, it peddled much of the old nonsense about the eu being the peace machine of europe. in my view, nato, not the eu, can take most credit for the defence, return and promotion of freedom and democracy in europe. the idea of european cooperation is not in question. it is the means and ultimate purpose which divides. euro-sceptics believe in the benefits of voluntary, mutual cooperation between sovereign nation states. what we reject is the orchestration of such by a grasping, centralising eu for the purpose of forcing an unwanted political integration upon the citizens of those nation states. this declaration clings to that goal and therefore it is flawed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the chancellor and the president for their comments. i shall begin by acknowledging the historical importance of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of rome. whatever our view of the kind of europe we want to see, i think we must all welcome some of the important achievements of europe in the past five decades. we have contributed to the development of friendly relations between those member states which until recently in historical terms were enemies. europe has provided a forum where democratically elected governments can take decisions based on dialogue. we have seen the development of a single market in europe, which has offered new economic opportunities for our peoples, and the enlargement of 2004 healed remaining divisions. i believe that these and other achievements are something all of us can welcome. however, it is the future we must now look to. the european union today is viewed by many, not least in my own country, as a distant bureaucracy. they see us still as an over-regulated body that is encroaching on too many matters that should be the preserve still of nation states. people want to see cooperation in europe, but they do not understand why politicians in this parliament spend so much time on constitutional and institutional issues. people ask what we are going to do to combat global climate change, to fight the scourge of global poverty and to make our continent more competitive in the face of globalisation. they want us to deliver on the substance and not dwell too much on processes. there may well be a requirement for improving the institutional workings of the eu through treaty changes, but this does not necessarily mean a complex new constitution. in the 21st century we need more flexibility and more decentralization to enable our economies to win in international markets. we do not need more regulation: we need less. we don't necessarily need more majority voting to fight climate change or global poverty; we need more effective intergovernmental cooperation. constitutions and institutions do not themselves generate prosperity, they do not make our economies more competitive, they do not reduce co2 emissions and they do not feed hungry people in the developing world. i urge all governments and the presidency now to get on with the job they have started well of delivering on policy substance.
mr president, madam chancellor, would you please confirm that the presidency is now firmly in favour of improving rather than impoverishing the constitutional treaty to ensure its speedy ratification? will you firmly choose a ‘constitution plus’ rather than a mini, tiny or even teeny treaty? will you not tolerate an igc with the sole purpose of extricating member states from pledges to promote referendums? remember the unfulfilled challenges of laeken. the igc should not be allowed to pull apart the comprehensive package agreed between the institutions and the member states. its focus instead should be on reforming the common policies so that they become more responsive to contemporary concerns and future challenges. and, as regards all those who are asking you to open up the first and second parts, please tell them to be patient. let us first bring the treaty into force and try things out in practice before returning to tampering afresh with the agreed balance of power. sometime, the historic first amendment will surely come, but it should not be attempted now.
mr president, in looking to the future development of europe, the berlin declaration quite rightly underlines the importance of solidarity and social cohesion in a european model combining economic success and social responsibility. it reminded me of another declaration entitled ‘enhancing social europe’, adopted by nine eu governments shortly before the spring summit this year. that declaration is aimed at rebalancing the policy mix in favour of action in the employment and social fields. in response, the spring summit conclusions included a clear reference to decent work, workers’ rights and participation, equal opportunities, safety and health protection at work and the need for a family-friendly organisation of work. the importance of social cohesion was also underlined and stress placed on the need to fight poverty, particularly child poverty. the importance of the social dimension was therefore highlighted in the clearest terms. the conclusions also recalled the treaty’s social provisions, in particular its attachment to the improvement of employment and of living and working conditions. that is part of article 136 of the treaty, which was celebrated on sunday and serves as a preamble to the very clear legal bases available to the commission to make proposals to improve employment and living and working conditions. i think it is a timely reminder from berlin and from the spring summit that the commission needs to relaunch a social agenda with content because, looking at the commission’s work programme at the moment, it seems to have forgotten that it has any legal bases to allow it to act at all. we want the commission to respond as a matter of urgency. it could make a start by giving substance to the current game of smoke and mirrors around the subject of flexicurity. let us have fresh legislative proposals to tackle exploitative forms of atypical work. let us see flexicurity being given positive meaning for the millions of workers who currently see it as a cloak for exploitation. finally, i hope the german presidency will keep social europe centre stage in the approach to, and beyond, the june summit. in that way, the berlin declaration will retain credibility.
mr president, following on from the president's comments earlier about developments in belfast, i would like to say that, from this distance, euphoria about political developments in belfast is understandable. however, i must tell the house that i, and many in northern ireland, see nothing to celebrate in the premature admission to government of those who personally sanctioned, practiced and unreservedly supported a campaign of vicious terrorism that left thousands of my fellow citizens as innocent dead. i say ‘premature’ because even now sinn féin is still cherry-picking in its support for the police, with prominent members condemning legitimate police arrests for serious crimes and refusing full cooperation with the police in bringing to justice those responsible for such outrages as the omagh bombing, which killed 29 innocent shoppers. where else in the world would you expect to find in government ministers inextricably linked to, and maybe even still members of, an illegal army council of their own illegal private army? yet that is what many in this house will applaud in northern ireland. of evil no good can come.
a uachtaráin, ó thaobh an méid a dúirt uachtarán na parlaiminte inniu faoi imeachtaí na seachtaine seo i mbéal feirste, ba mhaith liom fosta fáilte a chur roimh ráiteas na seachtaine seo ó ian paisley agus ó gerry adams. léiríonn an comhaontú idir sinn féin agus agus an dup – agus an gealltanas soiléir sin ó ian paisley faoi athbhunú na n-institiúidí polaitiúla ar an ochtú lá de mhí na bealtaine – tús ré nua polaitiúla in éirinn. bhí sé d’onóir domsa freastal ar an chruinniú stairiúil idir sinn féin agus an dup dhá lá ó shin. taispeánann na cainteanna agus taispeánann an comhaontú idir ár ndá pháirtí cad is féidir a bhaint amach anois. ba mhaith le sinn féin caidreamh nua a thógáil inar féidir le gach duine a bheith páirteach i dtodhchaí rathúil, shíochánta agus chóir. caithfear dul i ngleic ar ndóigh le cuid mhór dúshlán agus cuid mhór deacrachtaí go fóill, ach níor chóir do dhuine ar bith meas faoi luach a thabhairt ar chuntasacht fhorbairtí na seachtaine seo, agus na féidearthachtaí a chruthaíonn siad don dul chun cinn polaitíochta in éirinn.
mr president, i want to bring to your attention recent events in pakistan surrounding the suspension of the supreme court chief justice mohammed chaudhry, which led to widespread unrest in that country. last december, as chair of the saarc delegation, i raised the issue of the importance of the freedom of the judiciary and media at the highest levels on a visit to pakistan. it is disappointing, therefore, that we hear reports of a lack of both. however, i am grateful to the pakistani ambassador to the eu for providing me with his government’s statements of its commitment to press freedom, and i particularly welcome its assurances on upholding the independence of the judiciary. however, i would strongly urge the president of parliament, in the interests of transparency, to write to request a copy of the reference sent to the supreme judicial council, as well as a full explanation of the reasons for the supreme judicial council’s decision to suspend justice chaudhry. finally, could the president also strongly urge the government of pakistan, however justified the suspension of the chief justice is, to hold open hearings so that the international community can judge the fairness of the trial taking place.
mr president, staying in the same part of the world i would like to bring to this house’s attention the worsening situation in sri lanka, where the ceasefire is all but non-existent. i believe this is a tragedy. over 200 000 people are now displaced by the renewed fighting. over 3000 civilians, and of course a number of soldiers on all sides, have been killed. one thing that this parliament could do is call for independent human rights observers to monitor any abuses and the many abuses that are being committed by the sri lankan security forces, by the ltte and by the other armed groups that are all over the island. i believe that this european parliament must act to support the people of this wonderful island, bringing about a peaceful solution and an end to this conflict as soon as possible. thank you very much. 47 seconds! (laughter)
thank you, commissioner. that concludes the debate. the vote will be tomorrow at 11.00. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the future of the european union’s own resources (2006/2205(ini)) (a6-0066/2007). unfortunately, i am told that the rapporteur cannot be with us tonight owing to family reasons. mr böge will be replacing him.
thank you very much mr böge. i think our colleagues’ applause says it all.
madam president, in principle the objective of making the own-resource system simpler, more transparent and easier for citizens to understand has to be welcomed. i compliment alain lamassoure on the work that he has done to stimulate this debate and to highlight the need for change. i agree with him that the current vat-based element is too complex and is in need of change. however, in respect of the other traditional own resources, we see no justification for change. we think that a funding system based on a gni is both logical and fair, and we are happy to support that system. we do not accept, however, that this resource should become a genuine own resource. quite the contrary. we see merit in a healthy debate between the member states as paymasters and the commission as servant. this sends a very clear message to the public that the eu is not a self-sustaining institution but that it is there to help the member states achieve their mutual goals. we also welcome the opportunity to review the common agricultural policy. inevitably, this is a complex exercise because a reformed cap must be able to help the new member states to develop their agricultural base, while allowing the eu-15 to transfer funding to those environmental elements with popular support and reducing the overall cost to the community. i agree, therefore, with the principle of compulsory co-financing. it is the most logical approach to reforming the expenditure side and, as the report points out, it offers the potential to eliminate the need for abatements. however, i stress again that this will be a complex negotiation and surely better suited to the budgetary review already scheduled for 2008-9. for these reasons, i shall vote against the report.
madam president, a good subtitle for this report would be ‘the thin end of the wedge’. i am always suspicious of eu reports which state that they respect principles, in this case full respect for the fiscal sovereignty of the member states. this is usually a prelude to exactly the opposite happening. this report, despite stating the aforementioned key principle, promptly goes on to equivocate by stating that member states might nevertheless authorise the union, for a limited period, revocable at any time, to benefit directly from a share of a tax. in other words, the european commission is attempting to establish the principle of the eu taking taxation directly from taxpayers in the member states. this is an enormously dangerous precedent to set and is made all the more worse by yesterday’s revelations about the commission being raided by the police, with simultaneous raids in various countries. i have been taken to task before for using the word ‘fraud’ in this chamber. however, it is clear that the police think the word is justified. this report also calls for the gradual abolition of the british rebate, something which i am completely opposed to and will fight to the end to prevent. gbp 40 million a day is enough. britain cannot be expected to pay any more into the eu’s leaking financial system.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur for his cooperation. he has made a comprehensive and fair assessment of the current situation and opened the door for discussions on possible future solutions. however, i feel we are presenting parliament’s views too soon. they are just an initial contribution to the debate, because 2008 is an opportunity for us to fully revise the budget. we need to find a system that is transparent and understandable and based on equality and fairness between member states. it should reflect the priorities and ambitions of our progressive and successful eu of tomorrow. i very much welcome the report’s crucial emphasis on the link between expenditure and income and the need to address both matters simultaneously if real progress is to be made in revising the eu budget. it is also important to recognise that the own resources issue is not just about the uk rebate. that is an overly simplistic and erroneous view that is unhelpful in taking discussions forward in a meaningful and constructive direction. finally, i welcome the fact that the rapporteur recognises that the idea of any new eu tax would not be practical or popular. this demonstrates that parliament has taken on board the views of national parliamentarians as expressed during our extensive consultations.
, in writing. – whilst i welcome the efforts that have gone into some early blue-sky thinking on the future sources of revenue of the european union, and whilst i appreciate the explicit link made to the need to reform in parallel the expenditure side, i have my doubts about some aspects of this report. there is still too much focus on the one issue of the british rebate without recognising that this is not itself an anomaly but is the correction to an anomaly. there is also a strong implication in the report that the gni-based resource is not really an ‘own resource’ of the union, as it is not a tax on individuals but on member states and is therefore less visible to citizens. yet it is, legally, a resource due to the union. although it is less visible, it is, on the other hand, more equitable than many of the other suggested sources of revenue as it is tied to the level of prosperity in member states. it is also a more stable source of revenue than some of the others that have been suggested. it should be kept!
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, the committee on legal affairs would like to remind colleagues that one thing that underpins the european union is the rule of law. it is the rule of law which has delivered the single market, with all its advantages and some disadvantages, having regard, of course, for the principle of subsidiarity. we recognise that there are items of purely sporting interest, nothing to do with economic interest, which belong to the sporting bodies. we also recognise that there is a difficult dividing line, which is why we welcome the british presidency’s initiative in setting up the independent review. but we would remind colleagues that there are a wide variety of instruments in the eu treaties that could be use to protect young players, to deal with players’ agents, to provide for group exemptions to competition law, and to interpret whether sporting organisations provide services of general economic interest under article 86 of the eu treaty. so there is plenty provision for us to take action. clearly, what we all want is for football to be successful, for teams to thrive – we support success – and we also want to ensure that clubs like accrington stanley are well-catered for and their supporters are able to support them. so i would hope that out of this independent review we can develop a sensible, coherent response.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, mr belet made reference to believing in the autonomy of sport. i agree. the report draws attention to areas where more cooperation or even regulation might be appropriate, but i believe the structure and organisation of the game of football is not one of them. local, national and international leagues and competitions are best left to the football authorities to organise. around here, when we refer to the term ‘national’ we tend to mean ‘of the member state. the member state is, of course, the building block of the european union, but in football that is not the case. i and my welsh colleague, jill evans, have tabled amendments 28 and 29, which i hope will be adopted tomorrow. a football game which is being played this very evening illustrates why these amendments are important. my footballing nation, scotland, is playing italy, the world champions. our amendments simply make it clear that ‘national’ in football does not necessarily mean ‘member state’, and nothing in this report or in the terminology of this report ought to in any way bring into doubt or undermine the status of the historic footballing nations of scotland, wales and england.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the eu has no competence over sport and nor should it. the champions league and the g14 clubs across the uk, spain and italy, oppose the eu intervention in football broadcasting rights. bayern munich is for it; english clubs are against it, yet a uk sports minister, richard caborn, is here to lobby for the germans. so much for british interests! amendment 25, until it was sensibly withdrawn, ordered the flying of the eu flag at champions league and european championship matches. had they thought about switzerland, who will co-host the european finals in 2008? the fact that the champions league includes russia, turkey and norway? none are in the eu and there is no eu team. the same amendment also demanded that the eu anthem be played at these matches. but ‘ode to joy’ is a complete misnomer to 41% of the population, and 58% of the british population. you know, schiller wrote ‘ode to joy’ in 1785, and his words ‘oh friends, no more these sounds’, may have been controversial then, given that beethoven was unfortunately already disabled by deafness when he wrote the ninth symphony, but they are appropriate today. and, as for ‘do you fall in worship, you millions?’, well i can tell you, over 200 million people say ‘no’.
mr president, i would like to thank mr belet for the way he has gone about writing this report. i do fundamentally disagree with him in some areas, and indeed the massive power-grab that this report is asking for in its recitals, but i welcome the professional way he has conducted himself in writing the report. yes, there are problems in football, but none that we european politicians cannot make a lot worse. yes, there are small elements of people who use football matches as an excuse to be violent, and they should be arrested and stopped from attending. but, as many rangers fans from glasgow in scotland will tell you, policing at international fixtures needs to be friendly and sensible, rather than hostile and over the top. giving eu competence in this matter to us will not stop this violence, and we do not need it to actually swap best practice. this report is a good example of why we should stand back and be sensible. sport is best governed by those who participate in it. many of this report’s recommendations are quite sensible, but we are politicians and we simply cannot resist tinkering where we have no right. just look at the now withdrawn amendment 25; listen to many of the contributions in this debate and you will see why. my theory is that by demanding these new powers we will try and correct problems that do not really exist, and try and change and harmonise the very different sporting models in football that exist across the continent at the moment. as someone who has refereed at the lowest level of the game for 25 years, and having heard much of the debate on this subject over my time in this parliament, i think we are in great danger here of forgetting that professional football clubs – the ones we are speaking about tonight – are uniquely connected to the millions of amateurs who run out on pitches across europe every weekend, and we could easily damage the solidarity people here wish to promote and protect by our quite ignorant plea for interference.
mr president, mr belet’s report is not about the eu taking over football, and the alde group has been at the forefront of tabling amendments to make that clearer. however, there is nothing wrong with it assisting in the sharing of best practice. there are aspects, such as the business of football covered by european legislation, which are taken care of within the corresponding business or other legislation and do not need special rules. football also has a social or cultural dimension. however, the closest links are those forged within the local communities. that is where fans go week in, week out to see games and it is where many clubs, such as reading football club in my own region, invest in football in community projects. it is those local links which are why national associations, leagues and clubs are best placed to make the right decisions within a self-regulatory framework and i believe, with the appropriate amendments, that is what this report says.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteurs and especially mr belet, with whom i served on the independent review of european football established by the council last year. football has a number of problems. one of these is the linkage of wealth and sporting success and the concentration of both in the hands of an increasingly small number of clubs in almost every league across the whole of europe. however, measures to counter this trend taken by the football authorities – such as the home-grown players scheme or the obligation to sell tv rights collectively with redistribution to all clubs – could risk being found to be incompatible with european law. i was alarmed to hear commissioner figeľ say that the commission was still thinking about this and had not yet reached a decision. that is why we need the white paper to recognise if not derogations then at least sympathetic interpretations of eu law that recognise the specificity of sport. that is why the contributions of mr titford and mr heaton-harris are so misplaced: they are aimed at alarming the british tabloids. it is nonsense to say that this is a power grab by the european union: it is a loosening of existing eu legal requirements that were initially drawn up for other purposes. that is what is needed. to portray it in the complete opposite way of what is intended is completely disingenuous.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, at the very start of his mandate, the high representative made the middle east the main focus of his work. we congratulate you on that, high representative. we admire your indefatigable energy and your diplomatic skills, and we hope that with a new government in palestine, the european union will indeed be able to help in setting this country firmly on the road to a lasting peace and to peaceful co-existence with israel. high representative, you say that deeds are more important than words, and that we must determine our behaviour towards the new palestinian government in response to its actions, but i would urge you, rather, to take the initiative with this new government. it has a great need to establish a functioning administration on its territory. the temporary implementation mechanism is both costly and cumbersome and the commitment of the state of israel to allowing that new government to work is far from clear. we need to take the initiative, for if we hesitate, we may lose the opportunity to secure a lasting peace and peaceful coexistence. high representative, you certainly do not lack courage. your efforts in trying to secure peace in the middle east and the development of democracy and the rule of law are undertaken in probably the most difficult circumstances. my group agrees with you that a political solution is best in our relations with iran over the nuclear issue. we commend your efforts to restart negotiations with mr larijani. we view un sanctions as being a last resort and we would urge you, in the contacts and the relationships that you are building, to use all of the union’s efforts to release the british sailors and marines who are being held there. hms cornwall is based in my constituency. many of the people involved are my constituents. we are very keen to see them released as soon as possible. perhaps you can also turn your attention again to libya, to see if we cannot get the bulgarian nurses back to bulgaria in time to vote in the european elections on 20 may. (applause) you spoke of darfur. it has to be at the top of our agenda, not only for the security reasons you mentioned, but because our inability to prevent the first genocide of this century would send the wrong signal about europe’s role and potential within the world. i urge you to work together with the united states and with other major nations to try to bring a solution there, in particular bringing in un troops to establish security which the african union is not capable of achieving. we welcome your renewed emphasis on the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. if the united kingdom and france renew their nuclear weapons, if the usa builds a missile shield, then the message we are sending to the russians and others is that we are engaging in a new arms race. quite apart from the fact that this ‘son of star wars’ might turn out to be a maginot line in the sky, we should not be engaging in this kind of diplomacy. you say the european union has no legal powers, but we must discuss the missile shield. however, unless you actually take the initiative and set the agenda, that agenda will be set for you by the actions of the individual member states. we welcomed the initiative of commissioner rehn, when, in the face of growing difficulties with turkey, he established sanctions by suspending negotiating chapters and brought the member states around behind him. we would like to see you do that to ensure that we have a common response to the development of this missile shield. high representative, you are responsible for access to documents. we have talked a lot about the need for an agreement on access to documents in the second and third pillars. these documents are not within the purview of national parliaments, and the solana/brok accord gives us no solid legal basis. when our temporary committee on extraordinary rendition asked you last year for the minutes of the committee of legal experts of the member states, they were given a two page document. we later discovered that there is a fuller, six-page document, and i would simply ask you here today if, in the spirit of loyal cooperation set down in article 10, you would clarify to this house – perhaps to the conference of presidents – whether the minutes received by the chairman of our temporary committee were indeed a full or just a partial record of the proceedings of that meeting. you will appreciate the importance of this matter.
mr president, i understand that mr solana is looking for a new job. on a personal basis, i wish you well in any new career you may choose, mr solana, but i am pleased that the role of european foreign minister is no longer viable because of the rejection of the proposed european constitution in 2005. the idea has always been a non-starter. there can never be a common european foreign policy, because we all have different histories, international commitments, interests and allies. take britain, for example. we do not necessarily share with our european neighbours the same perspectives on the international crises we face today. as you will be well aware, britain faces a very grave situation in iran, which has illegally detained british troops. it would be ridiculous for an eu foreign minister to try to negotiate the release of members of her majesty’s armed forces. however, britain is also now in an equally ridiculous position as a result of our membership of the european union. if diplomatic efforts fail to obtain the release of the british troops, then iran’s illegal actions may have to be met with sanctions. but britain could not enact sanctions against iran, even if it wanted to, because britain no longer has control over its own trading rules. trade policy is now under the control of the european union. this is yet another example, if one were needed, of why britain must leave the european union and restore control of her own affairs.
mr president, mahatma gandhi, that brave, peaceful and utterly determined father of indian independence, once walked into the governor-general’s office during the days of the raj and accused him to his face of the british being masters in someone else’s house. we brits now know how he felt, and some of you might even find a smug satisfaction at the very thought. however, when we see the european union and its officials throwing their weight about the globe, like johnny-come-latelies strutting on an ever bigger stage, we know the end-game. we know where such self-appointed self-importance ultimately leads. i have three questions for you, mr solana. who told the eu it could impose fines on foreign companies with no regard for the consequences on commerce, wealth creation and the protection of jobs in countries that do not even belong to the european union? then there is the eu’s economic partnership agreements doing so much damage to real families in third world countries, and whilst their leaders grow fat on the back of these agreements, local producers and traders struggle to compete with cheap imports. the same applies to the fishermen off the coast of africa: while local government ministers grow fat, their coastal waters have been decimated by our trawlers, and local fishermen can no longer make a living. gandhi was right. the eu has no business posturing as a master in other people’s houses.
mr president, i was born in 1944, in the dying months of the second world war. for my whole lifetime nato and the transatlantic alliance have kept the peace in europe. it was not the european union or the commission that defeated the ussr and brought down the berlin wall. it was the courage and determination of leaders like ronald reagan and margaret thatcher. the cfsp and its military posturing threaten to undermine the transatlantic alliance. it is born out of jealousy, resentment and anti-americanism. it is overweight with strategies, planning papers and staff colleges, but desperately light on men and ships, tanks, guns and aircraft. the cfsp threatens the very foundations of western security and leaves us all dangerously exposed in an unpredictable world. this is yet another reason why my country would be better off out of the european union.
mr president, i welcome mr solana’s reference to africa and darfur and the lack of human rights in darfur, but he regrettably missed out on zimbabwe. the arab league in riyadh, which he visited only yesterday, promised a new initiative on the arab-israeli conflict, but it still insists on the right of return of all palestinian refugees – so nothing new as far as i can see. on kosovo, i fear that snatching it away unilaterally from the sovereignty of serbia – a country still digesting the partition from montenegro – will create further instability in the region and generate a precedent which russia will play out to the maximum over the frozen conflicts in the south caucuses, but even over crimea. ukraine is a country that now needs more support and is it not now high time that it be granted by the council the status of potential candidate, like the western balkans? on the middle east, i would urge caution over resuming direct aid to the palestinian new unity government before hamas explicitly accepts the three conditions, including recognising the right of the state of israel to exist. i should also like to thank all those in this house – the president of this parliament in particular – who have shown solidarity with the 15 ambushed british service personnel, who were snatched from iraqi territorial waters, where they were fully entitled to be under both un resolutions and the explicit consent of the iraqi government. iran remains a serious problem as it defies the international community in its determination to acquire nuclear weapons, and will openly dissemble on this issue, as it has done recently over its claim of the exact position of the whereabouts of the british servicemen when they were captured. is it not now high time that the eu, with the usa, applied serious economic sanctions against this brutal regime, which publicly executes people for sexual misdemeanours and whose president ahmadinejad has vowed to wipe israel off the face of the earth? ending the export credit guarantees by germany would be a very good start.
in writing. – i would like to focus specifically on the issue of the deployment of anti-missile defence systems in europe by the us. as someone who has been looking at the identical issue vis-à-vis japan’s deployment of theatre missile defence to ‘defend’ against the supposed threat from north korea, i can only say we are being misled by the word ‘defence’. these deployments in japan and europe are intended to give the us the ability to launch a pre-emptive strike against either north korea or iran. they cannot work against any large-scale attack from china or russia – not that i am suggesting there is any likelihood of that happening – but to defend against any odd remaining missile and warhead after a pre-emptive attack against a country with a limited number of missiles and warheads. the deployment of such technology in europe will make europe a more dangerous – rather than safer – place, in the interests of neo-con us foreign policy.
rapporteur. – mr president, just a little bit of respect for a rapporteur from my colleagues would be appreciated! i shall be very brief. it was not possible to schedule a debate on this report; there are no amendments; we are voting because we want to now open discussions with the council and the commission. i also wanted to say that this is not the last word, and we reserve the right to reopen some of these compromises if necessary with the council and the commission to ensure that mediation truly works for our citizens and that we achieve our objectives. we can now move to the vote.
in writing. i voted against the directive on the responsibility of flag states because it merely adds to the weight of eu regulation on shipping, but without addressing the real problem, which lies in the performance of non-eu flags with large fleets. eu states are imo-compliant and thus are not the problem. i also reject this directive on the basis that it undermines the sovereignty of member states by transferring competence to the community. each member state is already obligated as parties to imo conventions; this is enough and how it should remain.
in writing. whilst one may agree with the approach of making third-party responsibility a standard approach, there are apparent inconsistencies which need to be addressed before one can proceed. chief among these is the fact that the llmc convention has not been ratified by member states, which is why there is an urgent need for the eu to act. the council needs to affirm its commitment to the convention at member-state-level by ratification before it can offer a proper criticism of eu competence in this area which it questions.
mr president, in organic farming consumers set great store by the use of natural substances rather than synthetic ones. synthetic nitrogen fertilisers should not be used. however, there is no reason whatsoever to ban natural mineral fertilisers or any other kind of natural mineral fertiliser, such as nitrogen fertilisers. that is why i regret that amendments 168 and 169 to this report, tabled by mr tarabella, were not adopted. it seriously weakens the logic of the position that we have adopted and i hope that, with the matter being referred back to committee, the committee on agriculture and rural development will look at this issue again.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it will strengthen the provisions of the commission proposal on the labelling and production of organic food. i am supportive of the use of the european logo (‘eu organic’) for items containing 95% organic ingredients and the requirement for operators in third countries to provide their national authorities with a certificate issued by a competent community control body.
in writing. in voting for the giusto catania report (a6-0052/2007), i very much hope to see a marked improvement in international cooperation between police forces to counteract violence associated with football matches. innocent fans and families from middlesbrough were caught up in violence in rome in march 2006 on the occasion of the middlesbrough/roma fixture during the european cup. three fans were stabbed during unprovoked attacks by roma fans. parliament’s petitions committee considered a petition from middlesbrough fans last autumn. i very much regret that, a year after the violence in rome, the chairman of the petitions committee has still not received a reply to a letter he sent to italy’s interior minister seeking assurances that the mistakes which allowed the violence to happen would be avoided in the future. i very much hope that, even at this late stage, the minister will take the opportunity to reply and convey a clear apology to the people of middlesbrough.
in writing. i voted in favour of the catania report to improve police security at football matches. i support the reinforcement of the role of national information points as the contact point for the exchange of police information in connection with violence at international football matches. i strongly believe, however, that any transfer of personal data must be protected by existing privacy laws and can never be used for other purposes.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports this resolution, in particular the strong support given to the un process and the endorsement given to the special envoy for kosovo, martti ahtisaari, and his comprehensive proposal for a kosovo status settlement. we abstained on amendment 13, however, because its language is not consistent with the ahtisaari plan and it is therefore unhelpful whilst discussions are still ongoing in the united nations security council.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the future of kosovo and the role of the eu. in order to secure the objectives of a peaceful, self-sustaining kosovo, the eu should have a role in the current international negotiations for a settlement. in particular, i support the un-led drive to determine the final status of kosovo, and the ahtisaari proposal in particular.
in writing. i voted for this report and amendments on a statute for members' assistants and amendments calling for reduced energy costs for, amongst other things, parliament's car fleet. unfortunately, it was defeated. i will be interested to see if those who voted for the amendment who have some control over the choice of vehicle they use, namely group leaders, put their ideals into action or continue to use their current 'gas guzzlers'.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the 2008 budget guidelines which focused on making communication more efficient in the european parliament in order to raise awareness among eu citizens. in particular i support the specific focus placed upon informing the local and regional media. another key aspect of this report was the adoption of a real and meaningful statute for members’ assistants. i believe such a statute will contribute to improving the quality of members’ activities.
in writing. i voted against the lamassoure report on own resources because it seeks to advance the notion of statehood for the eu by setting in motion a process of sovereign financing leading to the ultimate absurdity of eu taxation. moreover, its assault on the wholly justified “british rebate” demands of my constituents that they should become even more generous benefactors of the grasping eu, with all its profligate waste. with the uk already losing over gbp 4 billion net per annum in funding the eu we have no more to give.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report proposing a reform of the own-resources system which will emphasise equality between member states. the current system is complex and not transparent to the public and i am therefore glad that it will be reformed.
mr president, despite reservations on one or two items in it, labour meps voted in favour of the belet report. this is because the thrust of the report is to help the footballing authorities deal with some very real problems facing them by ensuring that european laws adopted for other purposes do not get in their way when they are dealing with these problems. in other words, it is quite the opposite of what the previous speaker said. we are not trying to harmonise the rules relating to football or to take control of football. we are trying to give the football authorities some extra space so that they can deal with their problems themselves. in this context, i would like to add that i was very surprised that mr heaton-harris tabled an amendment given to him by a lobbyist from real madrid. the effect of allowing the individual sale of tv rights by individual clubs, instead of collectively by a league with redistribution to all clubs, will now be felt in spain alone among the 27 member states. it not only destroys sporting competition within the spanish league – because barcelona and real madrid will get a billion euros each over the next few years – it also distorts sporting competition at european level by giving those clubs an unfair advantage over the clubs in every other league in europe. i am astonished that mr heaton-harris should have tabled such an amendment.
in writing. ukip does not accept that the eu has competence over sport and opposes this report as a whole in order to defend the rights of all eu member states and their clubs and supporters, and to keep politics out of sport. accepts that revenues from broadcasting rights are largely determined by the size of national broadcasting markets. rejects trade union, "supporters' trust" and eu rule over sport. supporters back winning teams, not those with a good committee. opposes interference in fifa and uefa decision-making. supports insurance for national team players. opposes the flying of the eu flag and the playing of the eu anthem at football matches. there is no eu team. switzerland will co-host euro 2008. opposes eu involvement in club finances. supports improving education for young players outside eu jurisdiction. supports nations within member states having their own team (e.g. scotland). rejects the independent european sports review. supports member state cooperation to combat football violence, but categorically rejects eu jurisdiction as the eu has no competence over justice and home affairs.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of mr belet’s report which follows, i believe, the best interests of the game in europe, backing broadly uefa’s own views on the issue. i do this despite uefa’s recent blatant discrimination against the country of gibraltar which i represent. the last uefa meeting rejected gibraltar’s application for membership despite the fact its population is the same as san marino – a long time uefa member – and that the dutch antilles, a colony, participated in the finals of the third world cup in 1938. i also support the block sale of tv rights by national leagues to mitigate the growth of financial disparities between clubs, but not the block purchase of such rights which give a monopoly to a single broadcaster who exploits that monopoly to the detriment of the viewing public. equally, football cannot be exempted from european legislation to enable a limited number of clubs to increase their profits at the expense of the rest. relaxation of rules must serve the public good not private profit.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report about the future of professional football. in particular i support the call on the commission to clarify the legal status of football and i support the recommendation that efforts be made to assure greater transparency and good governance in the european professional football. for me the existence of a separate governing body for scottish football – i.e. the scottish football association – is important, and i support the verts/ale amendments to ensure that such independent governing bodies are maintained as they are without being incorporated into a uk-wide football association.
in writing. there are many challenges facing professional football within the european union. there is a need for greater transparency and democracy within the game’s governance structures. support should be given to home-grown player systems. however, i believe we should recognise the autonomy of sport and its right to self-governance.
in writing. ukip does not accept that the eu has competence over sport and opposes this report as a whole in order to defend the rights of all eu member states and their clubs and supporters, and to keep politics out of sport. accepts that revenues from broadcasting rights are largely determined by the size of national broadcasting markets. rejects trade union, "supporters' trust" and eu rule over sport. supporters back winning teams, not those with a good committee. opposes interference in fifa and uefa decision-making. supports insurance for national team players. opposes the flying of the eu flag and the playing of the eu anthem at football matches. there is no eu team. switzerland will co-host euro 2008. opposes eu involvement in club finances. supports improving education for young players outside eu jurisdiction. supports nations within member states having their own team (e.g. scotland). rejects the independent european sports review. supports member state cooperation to combat football violence, but categorically rejects eu jurisdiction as the eu has no competence over justice and home affairs.
in writing. i voted for the report which calls on the european commission to take more account of the needs of the new member states in its decisions on the common agriculture policy. the needs of new member states range from major efforts to comply with community health and hygiene rules to higher production costs. i believe the low level of direct aid received by these countries is creating unequal conditions of competition and i am glad that we are pushing the commission to look into this.
rapporteur. – mr president, i can be very brief. this is just because we received a legal opinion from parliament’s legal service very late on friday and we need to make a few comparisons with the text agreed with the council.
mr president, we are delighted that there will be a statement on wednesday evening from commissioner špidla on information and consultation. we would certainly like an opportunity to table a motion for a resolution to recall the often-repeated position of this parliament: we think that the european works council directive needs to be reviewed. we understand the position of our liberal colleagues, however. they would prefer to hear what the commissioner has to say before pinning themselves down to a resolution. we therefore request that the motion for a resolution be attached to the statement, but not voted on until the next mini-session in brussels.
mr president, on 13 april, members of this house due to speak at a multinational conference in singapore were refused permission to address the conference by the singapore government. indeed, they were told that if they spoke, they would be immediately arrested. this conference was not specifically about singapore. it was a conference of liberal and democrat parliamentarians from asia and europe on the development of democracy on both continents. the cooperation between european and asian members of parliament, which has led to the staging of many such conferences in many different asian and european countries – at which nobody has been prevented from speaking – has grown out of the work of the asia-europe foundation. such cooperation is a central part of the union’s strategy in asia. coincidentally, the ban was imposed on the 10th anniversary of the opening of the asia-europe foundation. i ask you to write to the commission president and the secretary-general of the council requesting that they should protest to the singapore government in the strongest terms and urging them to reflect on whether singapore is an appropriate country to host the asia-europe foundation if it acts in this way.
mr president, i must draw the attention of this house to a threat to its integrity. a ruling last week in the british courts held that after granting an application to lift the immunity of a member who faces specific charges, the european parliament can be assumed simultaneously and implicitly also to have lifted immunity against any other charges without further examination of the facts. such a ruling is prima facie contempt of this house. it opens the way for blanket applications from member states and implies the possibility of applications against any and all members to be exercised by any future government at its discretion. if unchallenged, this ruling would profoundly undermine the rules of this house and its procedures. i appreciate that this issue comes to light from a member whose scepticism of this institution is well known, but i respectfully remind you that i am also an advocate of the rule of law wherever it is to be found. today, mr president, i have sent you, the secretary-general of parliament and the chairman of the legal affairs committee details of the situation, inviting examination of the implications of this ruling.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, am i happy with this package? the answer is ‘not really’. am i supporting it? yes, because i believe it makes sense to have a european payments system to improve the single market and therefore it makes sense to take this step, far from perfect though it is. i have been astonished at how difficult it has been trying to move out of the dark ages on payment times, capital regimes and electronic money. the question i have most often been asked about this directive is ‘will it make payments cheaper?’, not ‘will it make payments safer?’. but this is not a price-regulation directive, so the only way to make payments cheaper is through greater competition and through transparency, so that consumers know what they are getting. we have achieved greater transparency, which i welcome, as i do the other useful safeguards for consumers. hopefully, the payment service providers’ ability to passport will enhance competition, but i harbour fears that the ongoing capital regimes and especially the scaling factors of 0.5 and 0.8 for money remitters and mobile remittances respectively mean repeating the mistakes made in the e-money directive. a review of the capital regime after three years in the light of experience, and perhaps after the functioning of extremes of implementation of 20% flexibility, may, therefore, turn out to be interesting. it is certainly an essential backstop that allows me to give my support, as is the possibility of reviewing the scope after three years. it is quite a disappointment to me that the present scope does not extend to one-leg payments. finally, as regards amendment 287, i persuaded my group not to table a similar amendment because, in addition to technical details, the data-protection issue is wider than this directive. that does not mean that the issue does not need addressing or, should it come to it, that a vote against the amendment is against the principle that it embodies, but i hope that another solution can be found that encompasses the idea without destroying the opportunity of this single-reading agreement.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, on a technical matter, the rapporteur is concerned to have rigorous separation of payment services from other commercial activities, which must mean banking business. the purpose of this separation is, presumably, to minimise risk. but all payments, apart from a tiny proportion of cash payments, are transfers between bank accounts. hence banks are the natural institutions for operating payment systems, and i doubt that such a separation is either feasible or even desirable from an efficiency point of view. this directive states that it has the worthy objectives of increased competition, transparency, consumer protection and so on. i wonder whether it will turn out like other financial directives such as mifid, the markets in financial instruments directive, for instance. many people in the city of london have now realised that the costs of compliance with mifid are far larger than any potential benefits.
thank you, mr president, and well done, mr gauzès. we have waited a long time, but we have finally got there. well done! importantly, the payment services directive opens up the payments market to non-banks. barriers to entry and the stifling of innovation have been addressed, at least to some extent, through a mix of waivers for smaller players and flexibility for member states on electronic money and other new means of payments, such as the money purse. however, i feel that there are some aspects where we have had an opportunity to make bigger inroads towards competition but have not gone nearly far enough. non-banks do not need such comprehensive capital requirements as have been agreed with the council. payment services companies such as remitters, bill payers and companies offering card-based payment services do not take deposits and therefore do not need the same financial underpinning as deposit-taking commercial banks. one suspects that this is more a matter of protecting traditional banks from new competitors than of protecting consumers. secondly, in this age of instantaneous communication surely even one day is more than should be necessary to move money from one end of the earth to the other, let alone from strasbourg to freiburg. and why are the banks afraid to be transparent about the cost of their services instead of charging by stealth in the form of unjustifiably long float times? surely, in the spirit of lisbon, we should be leading the world in applying today’s technology to money transfers. they should be instantaneous, with no delay at all. the service provider should then openly display its full charge for the service. so this directive, as finally and tortuously agreed, is a step in the right direction towards providing europeans, both individuals and smes, with a modern, efficient and reasonably-priced money transmission service. but it is not all we should expect. hopefully there will be further steps, commissioner.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, commissioner, first of all i should like to thank the commissioner for his remarks about this proposal and report. i warmly support them. i should also like to state quite clearly that my committee, the committee on industry, research and energy, supports this proposal and hopes that it will go forward smoothly. so we share that objective. next i would like to remind colleagues that the interest groups – the patient groups who are most likely to be affected by this measure and to benefit from it – strongly support the measure. i regularly see reports in the press of exciting new therapies and developments in this field, but usually they are in the usa and not in europe, which is to our loss. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work, but i have to respectfully disagree with him with regard to the two amendments from the committee on legal affairs which seemed to me, and to many on my committee, to be pushing in exactly the opposite, retrogressive direction to that of this proposal. so i join in supporting the compromise package which has been put forward, particularly by my distinguished colleague mrs roth-behrendt, not least because independent observers tell me that this package is in line with the itre committee’s position. so naturally i support it. (interjection from mrs breyer: ‘are you speaking for the committee or on your own behalf?’) i am speaking for the committee, madam; i am speaking in my turn, and you should wait for yours. i would like to remind everybody that the world around us is changing technologically, socially (although manners may not be changing), scientifically, and, as we can see in this report, biomedically. we must not deny the patients of the future the therapies of tomorrow.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, as the commissioner has said, it is an exciting time in medical research. we are on the verge of new breakthroughs, and the root for these is the development of advanced therapies, using gene and cell therapies and tissue engineering. gene therapy and somatic cell therapy products are already being clinically tested. some of the tissue engineering products are already with us. this proposal is there to ensure that we deal with a complex issue in a sensible and universal way, through central authorisation so that we can pool scarce expertise at community level, ensure the highest standards of patient safety across the eu and enable access to the european market and thus to all patients. that is what it is all about and on that basis, i welcome my honourable friend’s report and congratulate him on the work that he did, not only in bringing the report through our committee on the environment, public health and food safety but in the subsequent work he has done negotiating with the presidency in the trialogue. we needed to look at various issues: the hospital issue, the small and medium enterprise issue, the medical devices issue. of course, with this comes a number of ethical issues and those are important. however, my belief is that the eu’s job is to guarantee safety and efficacy, and member states should take the ethical decisions. i believe that is where we will conclude on this important measure. we now have to look very carefully at the options before us in the votes on wednesday to make sure that we take something through which has the wholehearted support of this house.
mr president, there are many european families with members suffering from serious diseases. there are also many medical researchers and therapists with the means to help those patients, and they are all waiting for this important piece of legislation. it will provide the common legislative framework which will make these innovative therapies more readily, more widely and more safely available. it is urgently required, it will be of great benefit and there is no reason for delaying its implementation by loading it with unnecessary ethical provisos and carve-outs that are impossible to agree with the council. it has been firmly established that ethical restrictions are properly within the power of individual member states if they wish to limit or forbid. subsidiarity is the essential rule. but there is every reason to have a european standard for regulating the safe use of such therapies where they are used. so i ask my colleagues, and particularly my good friend the rapporteur, to let this vitally important piece of legislation proceed this week, so that agreement with the council can be reached. many of our less fortunate fellow europeans will thank us when this legislation comes into effect, but they will have great difficulty understanding if it is further delayed, emasculated or stopped altogether by this parliament. this is one of those occasions when it is really important for us to exercise our powers carefully and responsibly and let this matter be finalised.
mr president, i speak to record my opposition to the eu's meddling in the criminal law of member states to the monstrous extent of demanding new offences and dictating the level of penalties to be enforced in the united kingdom and other states. the nefarious court of justice decision of september 2005 gives rise to this intolerable infringement of national sovereignty. now we are seeing a programme of rampant expansionism of power by the commission. this directive is even more objectionable from the uk perspective because, for the first time, it would make breach of patent a criminal offence punishable by four years’ imprisonment or more; not because the elected house of commons thinks that it is necessary or wise but because the unelected eu commission dictates it. i object, i reject this intolerable eu interference and i therefore reject this directive.
mr president, i understand the purpose of this directive and the message that you wish to send out to other countries. however, extension of criminality beyond that envisaged in trips, that is significantly beyond counterfeiting and piracy, is a step too far, at least at this stage, and not one that any speaker has justified. many colleagues appreciate that infringement of a patent that has been assessed as invalid is a normal commercial activity. however, this is not unique to patents: it applies to designs and trademarks as well. i say this as someone who accumulated over 25 years as a patent and trademark attorney before becoming an mep. there are amendments that attempt to address this problem. my own amendment 31 restricts the scope to the trips criteria – counterfeiting and piracy – or to when there is organised crime or a risk to health and safety. amendment 33 takes account of assessment of invalidity. i can tell mr toubon that there will be separate votes on the individual parts of amendment 30, which is there for a purpose other than the one for which it perhaps appears to be there. to the commission, i say that this is an issue that is too serious to get wrong. i am afraid it is too serious to settle with ‘there or thereabouts’ compromises. therefore, i cannot vote for the proposal without the restrictions i have mentioned.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this report on the commission’s annual policy statements gives the members of this house the opportunity to remind the commission of a number of points which we set out in the financial perspective. firstly, we remind the commission that achieving lisbon strategy objectives is, and must remain, the major priority. i believe that by stimulating job creation, by supporting economic growth and by encouraging global competitiveness, the european union has the potential to make itself most relevant to the lives of the european citizens of today. secondly, we must impress on the commission the importance of ensuring that the budget delivers value for money. i stress our anxieties regarding the establishment of agencies: we have great concerns regarding the accountability of those bodies, as we do over the efficient and effective deployment of human resources throughout the institutions. thirdly, in my view, as a matter of utmost importance, the commission must apply far greater urgency in its efforts to achieve a positive statement of assurance. in this report, parliament is calling for greater transparency and the commission needs to do far more to strengthen the link between its legislative work programme and the budget procedure. finally, regarding the european institute of technology, i welcome the commission’s determination to achieve its lisbon goals and i admire its vision and initiative. however, there are two major anxieties which i wish to express. firstly, this proposal was introduced after the commission had set out its spending plans in the financial perspective and therefore, inevitably, the introduction of such a major project will have a significant knock-on effect on other priorities. also, while i acknowledge that proposals are evolving all the time, it seems to me that as a coordinating body for best practice, there is a danger of duplicating the efforts of other coordinating bodies and thereby failing to make a sufficiently positive contribution.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner indicated during her address that she was looking for parliament to give a strong measure of support to action in this area. i want to make it clear, on behalf of my group, that we welcome the publication of the green paper and we are looking forward to the publication of the white paper. we think that people’s rights in this area are not properly applied and, certainly, we want to ensure that more is done than is currently being done. however, as the commissioner herself has indicated, that is going to require a delicate balance, not least for the reasons that mr doorn has outlined, and because of the hearing organised by mr sánchez presedo, in which we devoted half a day to considering these difficult issues. for my own part, i am very committed to regarding progress in this area as an integral part of the whole of the commission’s agenda in terms of modernisation of competition policy, so let nobody be in any doubt about our encouragement of further action by the commission. however, as the commissioner has made clear, both within member state governments and amongst the business community, there is real concern to avoid the experiences of the united states. it is not good enough just to say ‘we are not going to do what the united states did’, especially when, it must be said, after giving a considerable amount of detailed consideration to the issue, mr sánchez presedo’s report goes into seeking to resolve, as it were, all these difficulties by changing the burden of proof, introducing punitive damages – at least in relation to cartels – and cost-free litigation, confusing eu and national competences, changing the rules in relation to disclosure, and cutting out of the assessment of the costs of this litigation any principles in relation to subsidiarity, proportionality or whether there is a proper legal base. therefore, when people ask why we are concerned about this report, it is because it has become a christmas tree with too many bells hanging on it. we are in favour of opening the door, we are certainly not in favour of encouraging a process which may lead us down the us route, against the wishes of the commission and against the wishes of all of those who have worked on this report.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, when we first discussed the commission’s green paper, i felt like a kind of latter-day cassandra forecasting all kinds of woes. perhaps i fared better than cassandra in that you, commissioner, and the rapporteur took some of my concerns seriously – i hesitate to call them ‘predictions’. my concerns, though perhaps only gently – maybe too gently for some of my colleagues – are embedded in the report that we are debating. so i can support giving you scope to explore the options of both follow-on actions and stand-alone actions. i can share a vision of mutual recognition of decisions, but i make it clear that that lies in the future, not right now. my main remaining reservations concern the question of how much of a carrot has to be offered to get the system to take off, particularly for stand-alone actions. and you may note the report on that subject that has just come out in the uk. if the carrot is too large, whether for the consumer, the lawyers or competing companies, i fear that, however we craft our rules, we are at risk of being pushed towards some of the worst aspects of damages actions that we hear about from the united states. i say ‘pushed’ because that is how it happens. nobody goes there voluntarily. with the whole of the eu as the territory for the victor, a very fine balance has to be struck. another of my priorities would be to ensure that actions are well founded and that we do not end up with the kind of blackmail actions that happen in the united states. i agree it will be difficult to get it right and account will have to be taken of national differences in legal practice and tradition, but if we can succeed it will be a very useful tool and well worth having. i look forward to the white paper too, but i warn you that i may not have put my cassandra’s robes away yet.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her initiative, and the rapporteur for his report. i want to concentrate on possible consumer actions, so-called collective or representative actions. these should not be the big bogeyman for business that they are often portrayed as. if we want informed and responsible consumers who do not need over-nannying by the state, then the companion of that approach of treating consumers like grown-ups is that we must allow them to take action together to get redress. after all, why should the state alone be the enforcer in anti-competitive matters? it is the consumer who loses as a result of anti-competitive behaviour, but often gets no redress or compensation. there is nothing astounding in proposing this: the right to take action is already acknowledged by the ecj. what we have to do is to facilitate this, make justice accessible to those who lose and ensure that compensation is distributed in an equitable manner, not just to the privileged few. this has to be the complementary approach to having informed consumers, giving them real power through increasing justice and redress. indeed, this should assist the better functioning of our internal market. consumers are often the best judges of what is anti-competitive. we should have no fears about harnessing this force for the general good. everyone is absolutely clear that we do not want us-style class actions, so now is our unique opportunity to design something european which respects european values of our society and justice.
on behalf of the its group. – madam president, i believe the council of ministers should consider as a matter of urgency appointing a team of genuinely independent, internationally respected accountants to carry out a full-scale investigation and analysis of the audit of this institution, its treasury, its accounting systems and controls and all its operational institutions as well, many of which trade commercially and yet routinely escape the full vigour of the law in their financial and business management. just take the 2005 accounts: a team of independent forensic accountants have concluded that payments worth eur 27 billion were simply not registered accurately in the accounts and such incredible unaccountability has produced some equally incredible and unacceptable consequences. we now know, for instance, that the eu has lost some eur 600 billion over the years, which far exceeds the uk’s net contribution of gbp 75 billion since we joined. the president of the court of auditors has admitted that there are serious ongoing problems: every annual report spells them out, page after page, and nothing much actually happens as a result. the statement of assurance is supposed to cover ‘down to the level of taxpayers’. yet their interests are ignored year after year. the discrepancies between balances in one year and the next are regular, routine and unacceptable. in 2002, for instance, the difference was eur 200 million. last year, it was eur 179 million, which is not much of an improvement over four years. and these are not just errors: accountants describe them as serious financial malpractice.
madam president, it is a pleasure to see you in the chair, presiding efficiently over us. first of all a comment to mr mote, who, i am sorry to see, has not bothered to stay to listen to the rest of the debate. his solution to the problems of corruption and waste in europe is to add another layer of bureaucracy by hiring a team of accountants from the private sector. it seems to me a completely absurd solution, piling cost on cost. our group will support amendments 1 and 3 calling for clarification of the costs of our working in three different places, which is an absurdity that the public cannot understand and we cannot understand. we want clarification on that. however, we are very puzzled that the ppe-de group has tabled four amendments – 79, 80, 81 and 83 – that would delete other useful parts of this report. mrs de lange, who just spoke for the ppe-de group, baffles me. she said that we want to avoid giving the public impression that money is being wrongly spent for the pension fund. i agree with her. however, the ppe-de group is proposing under amendment 83 to delete an audit of members’ allowances and how they are spent, which does not make sense at all. i would urge her to persuade the rest of her colleagues to withdraw those amendments seeking to delete useful things in this report and to support it.
madam president, time and again we hear the plea from the commission, ‘it’s not our fault! how can we police our community money?’ that is, member states’ taxpayers’ money is spent by the member states. indeed, we have the remarkable event last year of the commission castigating the court of auditors for picking on them. but perhaps the commission has a point and this line of thinking has persuaded the governments of the uk, sweden and the netherlands to agree to declarations about the future management of eu funds – for what that is worth. more deeply, the commission’s point shows up the essential weakness of the system. the agencies in member states that spend eu money have little incentive to worry about the taxpayers in some other member state who provided it. so what do we do about this? well, i shall continue to tell the people of my country that waste and financial irregularity are an unfortunate but inevitable consequence of the system – a flawed system in which the disconnection between the taxpayers who provide the funds and those who spend them becomes ever wider.
we have noted what you said about the absence of certain parties.
so that there be no doubt, and as a number of speakers have raised the point, it is quite clear that the agenda is set with the participation of the council. it is free to be here; it has obviously made a decision not to be here. that will be noted and has clearly been remarked upon.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs in this particular debate, especially salvador garriga polledo for the discharge report on the commission, on which i would like to focus most of my comments. commissioner, i think that we sense in parliament and in this debate that real progress has been made in the commission under mr barroso to be able to ensure that european citizens have proper accountability of funds. however, we know from the court of auditors report that even if the underlying transactions were legal and regular, for certain parts of the budget there are material errors which still remain for elements of the operational programmes, and therefore there is no statement of assurance for the 12th year running which, i think we all underline, is totally unacceptable. the question is, how do we get there? under the treaties, the commission stipulates that the commission is responsible for managing the budget, but we know 80%, as other colleagues have said, is managed by the member states. it is logical that no statement of assurance will be given until the member states produce their national declarations. i welcome the presidency of the council coming at least at the end of our debate, because this refers to the presidency and its responsibility in enabling national declarations to be done. obviously, in the interinstitutional agreement we have made some progress in asking member states to have national declarations. i agree with our rapporteur that we need to have the commission proposal to encourage member states to do so, but one gets the feeling that member states do not care for eu monies spent in their countries because they say it is not theirs. but of course it is! it is the taxpayers’ money and should be properly accounted for. i therefore come to the conclusion, looking at the excellent report by mr garriga polledo, that should there be an intergovernmental conference later this year, we have to make it a legally binding requirement for all member states to produce national management declarations, because clearly the legal basis at this stage is insufficient and some member states just slough it off and say that they do not worry because they are not concerned. but is concerns everybody.
whilst we are pleased to note the presence of representatives from the council, i am told that is actually for the next debate.
thank you, mr staes. the representatives from the council that are now present with us are from the german health ministry and i think it would be unfair to ask them to respond to this point. in the light of the tenor of a number of speeches, i have made it quite clear that we are dissatisfied with the non-attendance and that will be followed up. i will not ask the present representative to answer specifically, but the point has been noted and well made. the debate is closed. the vote will be noon today.
the next item is the report by mr andrejevs, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on combating hiv/aids within the european union and in the neighbouring countries, 2006-2009 (2006/2232(ini) (a6-0091/2007).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – mr president, may i start by congratulating the rapporteur on the work that he has done on this extremely important report. can i first say that of course, aids and hiv are themselves not prejudiced. they affect anyone who actually becomes vulnerable either by the use of badly treated blood which is often contaminated and passed on, unsafe sex and the bad use of needles to list just some examples. but what we have to deal with is how to prevent the transmission. it seems to me that highest on the agenda is the whole issue of information and education. we have to inform people about how they can protect themselves. we have to inform people about their rights and about access to medicines. at the same time we have to create a whole process for awareness-raising amongst communities and individuals who feel that they themselves are not under threat or will not be affected by aids and hiv. when we look in particular at africa, where millions and millions of lives are being ravaged, and when we look across europe, where more and more young people are becoming infected with the hiv virus, what we have to look at is not only the accessibility of treatment, but also the cost of treatment. we must do everything we can to reduce the cost of that treatment and to make it available to all. to those who say that condom use is not effective in preventing the transmission of the hiv virus, i say they do a great deal of damage and in fact they cost lives. condoms do work. needle exchange does work. good practices do work and they save lives. and those who promote abstinence? well, if abstinence can work in sexual relationships, of course it will. but what about when abstinence is not a choice? the young 14-year old girl raped on a highway in africa: does she have a choice? no. she has no choice. and that is where education and the promotion of awareness-raising and ending the discrimination that blights the lives of people living with aids and hiv is so important. finally, i do not think she is often quoted in this house, but i want to quote madonna – that is the pop star. she once said that to come out and declare your sexuality is to be a hero. to come out and say that you are hiv positive and to deal with the discrimination and the anger that you therefore suffer is to declare yourself a warrior: a warrior because you fight the battles that you never want another generation to have to fight again. i commend the report and i commend it to the house.
mr president, can you not take the entire group of reports under rule 131 as single votes en bloc?
in writing. i will be voting for this report. as the member representing the european parliament on the council of ministers' consultative committee on racism and xenophobia, i strongly supported the establishment of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia. since its inception it has done some excellent work. when it was initially established i resisted its remit extending to cover not just the eu but the territory of the council of europe as i believed it would dilute the centre's work and cause it to lose its focus on the rising tide of racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism inside the union. now we are to make it a fundamental rights agency. i believe this is a similar mistake that will lessen the attention that must be paid to extreme right-wing organisations and parties in the union, particularly within some of the new member states. some who supported the change were merely misguided, but others knew exactly what they were doing!
in writing. i voted for this report as the directive should ensure that european citizens have their payments processed more quickly by banks, that their cards will be more widely accepted in other countries and that their rights will be better safeguarded in the event of disputes. i believe that this will be an important improvement for european consumers.
in writing. this report is negative as regards future enlargement, and in particular turkey's possible membership of the eu. i do not entirely agree, although i believe that any further enlargement will be unacceptable to the people of europe for some significant time while we assimilate and integrate the twelve new member states from 2004 and after. as for turkey, there is still much work for it to do by itself, including on the treatment of trade unionists and human rights for the kurdish and assyrian minorities before it would be in a political position to join, even if it manages to achieve the economic criteria required of new members. on this basis, i will abstain on this report.
in writing. i was concerned about the negative references to turkey in this report and as they were supported by the plenary i had no alternative but to vote against this report.
in writing. the eplp attempted to modify the pieper report by removing the most contentious amendments. however, those amendments were carried and our efforts were unsuccessful. the eplp voted against a very negative report in terms of its general view on future enlargement and its specific references to turkey.
mr president, obviously i voted against the discharge of the commission’s accounts, as i always do. it has been such a long time that i cannot even remember when the court of auditors last gave a positive statement of assurance on the commission’s accounts. i found it quite amusing that, on the day that this house’s committee on budgetary control was voting to wipe the slate clean and pass the accounts, the belgian police were piling into commission offices to arrest individuals. they obviously thought there were some problems. i did a massive survey in the region i represent. in one particular part, in the wonderful constituency of daventry, i sent 15 000 surveys out and asked people whether they thought that britain should continue with its contribution whilst the accounts have not been signed off. over 10% of people returned that survey and 95% of those that returned it said we should not be paying any money in whilst this problem still goes on.
mr president, ordinarily, i would just give one speech or explanation of vote on the discharges, saying why i voted against them. but in this particular case, i can imagine the champagne corks are already being popped in the committee of the regions because this house has quite happily swept under the carpet all sorts of problems that have been ongoing there for a number of years. in this house, two or three years ago, we asked for an apology to be made to the committee of the regions’ then internal auditor, mr robert mccoy, who had made a plea to us for help in asking parliament and the committee on budgetary control to force the committee of the regions to change and to look after public money properly. we ignored that. we passed a resolution saying he should get an apology but the committee of the regions ignored that and, to this day, mr mccoy has no apology and the committee of the regions knows it can flout whatever the parliament decides because no one cares. it is a great shame.
in writing. conservatives will be voting against parliament’s main reports on the budgetary discharge of the european parliament, the commission, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the grounds that for the 12th year running, the court of auditors has been unable to give a positive statement of assurance of the overall eu accounts. conservatives believe that this situation must be resolved as a matter of urgency by the commission and that there must be zero tolerance in all cases of mismanagement and fraud. apart from the implementation of the new accountancy systems and encouraging whistleblowers to come forward, conservatives are focused on the key priority area of the 80% of the budget that is spent in member states which concerned the auditors. through the concept of ‘shared management’, the union system splits power from responsibility: the commission is responsible for the expenditure of all eu funds but, in reality, the power is delegated to paying agencies in the member states. some progress has been made by including in the agreement on the 2007-2013 financial perspectives a commitment that a certification of expenditure by member states will be required in future. it is essential that this is implemented in full. there must be greater transparency of the use of eu funds by member states . .. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. i supported the court of auditors’ view that discharge can be given to all seven institutions.
in writing. i voted for this report, which seeks to strengthen the fight against hiv/aids by promoting prevention through education and information and by combating discrimination and inequalities with regard to access to treatment and drugs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the erika and prestige disasters are quite rightly referred to in justification for having better and tighter safety regulation in maritime transport. sadly, these are not the only examples. the braer oil spill off the shetland islands of scotland is another catastrophic disaster which had long-term devastating effects on that island’s community. my group has generally supported the committee on transport and tourism reports as they have gone through. in relation to monitoring and information, it is simply common sense to tighten the policy on the accommodation of ships in distress and for member states to designate an independent competent authority in order to realise this. when speed of action is essential, it is vital that we have clear lines of responsibility in this matter. i think that mr sterckx’s report from the committee on transport and tourism has added constructively to the commission’s proposals. i welcome mr sterckx’s recognition that there are practical and financial aspects in relation to the fishing industry that have to be borne in mind when considering an automatic identification system and the question of confidentiality of information relating thereto. i support the idea of a compensation fund for places of refuge and for ports. this is particularly important if a ship, for example, was poorly insured. we supported the sterckx report in committee but as a group we have tabled two amendments which i hope will be accepted in the vote. we believe these are based simply on common sense and relate to mapping of environmentally sensitive areas. surely in assessing a potential place of refuge it is important to identify vulnerable coastal resources as well as the potential impact of oil spills on these resources. while that information can vary seasonally and in many cases is already held for many european waters, it simply has not been collected together centrally and made accessible to decision-makers in order to speed up reaction time in the event of emergencies. in port state control, while recasting the existing directive, we welcome the new inspection regime, the three types of inspection, the new provisions on refusal of access to eu ports. however, we believe that the report from the committee on transport and tourism, again with common sense in mind, simplifies the structure of the proposal and makes it more coherent. it describes more precisely the future inspection database and strengthens and clarifies the link between community inspection regimes and the paris memorandum inspection regime, and for that reason we supported it in committee. in terms of ship inspection and survey organisations, as others have mentioned, the issue of transparency and independence of organisations is very important. in the monitoring of their activities, surely it is common sense to ensure that the control and monitoring of the activities of inspection organisations are absolutely transparent, fair and strict. we had tabled amendments in committee on the de grandes pascual report which called for greater input by the european maritime safety agency. these were not accepted on the basis that the commission intends, we are told, to propose new regulation on the remit of emsa. i would welcome an assurance that the commission does indeed intend to look constructively in that area. the kind of catastrophes that we have too often witnessed do not just cause short-term environmental damage. they can sometimes totally ruin local industries, from fisheries to aquaculture, as well as having other long-term effects. these need to be borne in mind. significant progress has been made at eu level in terms of maritime transport safety and we should use the experiences that we have gained from previous maritime packages as a basis to achieve further improvement. i hope that the council will accept that parliament’s reports from the committee on transport and tourism constructively contribute to the process in what we believe is a common-sense way. i hope that our suggestions will be accepted and taken forward.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the uk is one of the few countries that have signed the athens protocol, and it therefore has no need for the eu to do this on its behalf. more importantly, the uk’s consent explicitly protected small domestic and inland boats from the onerous compliance costs. brussels, however, is not satisfied with this and wishes europe to re-sign. this time it will include those craft least able to afford the regulations. moreover, its contention that domestic and inland waterways are essentially the same as international travel may indeed reflect the situation in most of continental europe, but it does not reflect the reality in the uk. to us, going abroad actually means that: we have to cross water. it is what being an island means. mr costa himself admits that this extension will create an unnecessary burden for operators in this sector. the british government calls this problematic, but it is simply telling these small businesses, ‘it is bad, but tough luck. we are going to do it anyway!’ it is obvious to me that this report has had no serious impact assessment. when my office contacted the british government about whether the regulation would affect cable and chain ferries, such as the sandbanks ferry near poole in my constituency, the answer came back with the casual phrase ‘as far as we know’. well, they should know! the british government and this regulation are at odds. one says that it covers seagoing craft, the other that it covers inland waterways. this assembly must remember that these are real businesses, real jobs, real people and real families, which could be blighted with all this ill-thought-out and proscriptive legislation. that is simply not good enough. in terms of the security and peace of mind of those who work in this sector, this shows contempt for their interests. overall, it is apparent that this report is an excessively large hammer that will not just crack the nut but could completely destroy it.
madam president, i should like to refer specifically to the sterckx report. i would like to address two of the rapporteur’s amendments dealing with restrictions on data access. although i can sympathise with the intention of the rapporteur in seeking to reduce the risk of commercial misuse of data, i feel that the unintended consequences which will result will outweigh the advantages. given the fact that action has already been taken outside of the eu on this issue, this raises serious questions as to why we feel it is necessary to legislate here. i refer to action by lloyd’s register in london and its dutch counterpart to set up a self-regulatory scheme. these discussions have resulted in ais restructuring, in order to specifically alleviate the concerns raised and benefit legitimate industry as well as government users. subsequently, all parties who use this ais data have agreed to use these measures. my fear is that if the proposals on restricting access to this data are adopted, european ports and companies will be put at a commercial disadvantage. this is due to overseas competititors being able to continue to be supplied with services which make use of the ais data. also, as the information which may lead to commercial misuse can easily be obtained from other sources in more detail, why are we only choosing this specific data system? finally, these clauses would be unenforceable. ais data is transmitted using normal high-frequency signals and there are a number of receiving devices on the market which are completely untraceable, meaning that anyone who wishes to misuse the data can still do so. therefore, i call on the house to think carefully about the content of this report and not to fall into the trap of over-regulation at a time when we are calling for less regulation from the commission.
madam president, i welcome the third maritime package. this parliament has a long history of taking maritime safety extremely seriously. after the erika and prestige disasters we have to ensure that nothing of this kind ever happens again and that we are working towards being world leaders at achieving the highest safety standards at sea. i specifically want to talk about mr de grandes pascual’s report. i welcome this initiative to reform the workings of europe’s classification societies and to improve the quality of these organisations. the report, i think, makes good progress on reforming the inspections, checking and certification tasks of ships carrying member states’ flags, but i do have a few issues. firstly, commissioner barrot, in your opening remarks you spoke of the need for an independent structure for quality control. i do not take issue with you over that, but i believe that this report, as proposed, is contradictory. if it is to be of real value, the new committee proposed, the assessment committee, must be independent, not only of the recognised organisations but of the member states and of the commission. yet at the moment, as things stand, the report says that the commission ‘may require the assessment committee to adopt the measures the commission deems necessary’. it is hardly giving the committee autonomy and independence if the commission is going to require it to adopt the measures they deem necessary. so i urge support for my amendment 73, which, regrettably, mr de grandes pascual says he is not minded to support at the moment. my amendment 73 will tone that down and give the commission the power to advise or suggest rather than require, because an independent committee cannot be required to do things, otherwise it completely loses its independence. regarding article 8, i am very supportive of the approach establishing a graduated penalty scheme for the recognised organisations and i feel that there should be no significant changes to the liability regime. regarding article 12, i am supportive of penalties for failing recognised organisations and this is a much fairer system than the current decommissioning. this is a more flexible way of working and it will allow for a corrective action to be taken swiftly, should a recognised organisation be failing. i wholly support a maximum penalty of 5%, as against the original 10% figure, and i support the position in article 20 on the mutual recognition of certificates by recognised organisations. i think we are making progress here. i hope that the report can go through with my amendment and i will be one of the first to support it.
member of the commission. my understanding is that the commission is aware of the problems in the new member states. before joining the european union, they had to accept the acquis communautaire and had to apply minimum rates, although they received some derogations. it is now quite difficult for the new member states, including bulgaria, to raise the minimum excise duty on alcoholic beverages. we therefore presented a proposal to the council, which was made in general terms without any specific figures. following a decision by the council, we agreed that any member states – without specifying whether they were new or old member states – that find it difficult to increase the excise duty, may apply for a derogation. bulgaria and romania were not members of the european union at that time but this certainly applies to those two countries. therefore, if bulgaria has any difficulty in complying with the regulation which was adopted at that time, it may request a derogation which i am certain the commission will support.
commissioner, you and i have sparred on this issue several times in the past, but you will accept that the huge divergence around europe in excise rates on alcoholic beverages and other excisable products is one of the major stumbling blocks to providing for a proper single market in europe. would you agree that increasing minimum rates by any percentage on excise duties that are zero in some countries ends up in a zero increase, so the divergence gets even bigger? are you not aiming at an impossible target, and would not the best thing be to eliminate minimum rates altogether and allow the free market to operate freely in commercial and personal-use products?
i particularly welcome the commissioner’s answer to the question of more disadvantaged areas. i should specifically like to ask her about european regional development fund payments to my own constituency, which is london, and some of its disadvantaged areas. i wrote to the commissioner recently about this, and i wonder if she could please explain how any decision to suspend payments to projects in london could perhaps be reversed, and provide assurances that if the commission auditors are satisfied, this could happen quickly. i do not want to put her at any disadvantage if she does not recall the letter, but i did write to her recently and i would appreciate a reply either now or in the near future.
in order for the eu to forge stronger links with its citizens, it is not enough for citizens to be aware of eu funding being poured into their regions. eu citizens also need to be more involved in the eu funding process and the way eu money is being spent to fulfil public policy objectives. transparency and accountability are essential requirements for ensuring that eu citizens are involved in european policy-making. what measures are in place to ensure that not only the member states, but also the commission, operate as transparently as possible when it comes to distributing eu money via structural funds? citizens should be able to process information on who receives eu funding, how much, and for what purpose. is this information available?
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, commissioner, i welcome the opportunity to have this discussion tonight on galileo, but it gives me a very strange sensation of being in a time warp. it was seven months ago that we last had a plenary discussion on this topic and it is very alarming to realise that no progress has been made since then. on that occasion in september i expressed my concern, as did other members, at the spiralling cost of the project. we need to be brutally honest: no taboos, as the commissioner said. galileo has the potential to be a great european project, but technology moves very fast. there has been so much delay that the point could be reached where it is simply not worthwhile doing any more. galileo is dependent on revenue and, if it offers no added value, then no one will pay to use it. i listened with great interest to what commissioner barrot said. it seems that something which has at last changed is the council and commission’s willingness to take firm action. i very much welcome the 10 may deadline and the insistence that substantial, immediate progress be made by then on the heads of terms. i also welcome the undertaking to explore alternatives for delivering the project, but i am alarmed at the possibility of an interim solution dependent on the public purse. finally, the commission has said that it may have to revisit some fundamental aspects of its earlier assumptions and approach. i would ask the commissioner whether with hindsight he would concede that it was a mistake to agree in july 2005 to the merging of the two consortia. it seems to me that this was the point when the commission lost all leverage. would he now agree that it is the spur of competition and the existence of alternatives which is most likely to keep a public/private partnership on schedule and in budget?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, there is a perfectly good existing satellite system available for eu citizens' use. but we all know that galileo is really about extending the power and dominion of the european union and it is eventually intended to be used for military purposes by the planned eu armed forces. meanwhile, the funding plans of this grandiose project, which will run into billions of euros, are encountering severe difficulties. the british government, ever with an eye for an additional taxation opportunity, plans to use it to implement road-charging schemes so that british citizens can help pay for it by being charged for the privilege of driving on their own roads. galileo has all the makings of an airbus in space and, as galileo galilei pointed out, what goes up must come down. in this case it would be much better if it did not go up in the first place.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, firstly i would like to make one point. i would like to put on record my objection to legislation of such importance to european citizens being put on the agenda in the late evening. it seems to be common practice that codecision legislative proposals are discussed when the fewest meps and members of the public are present, and that is wrong. the core issues being discussed in this graveyard slot are the revisions to the 2001 aviation security rules, which are very much welcomed. having common regulations on this issue, as well as a common interpretation of the rules around all of the eu’s airports, means that security and passenger safety can be improved at a time when it is most needed. however, we cannot expect the travelling public to have to foot the bill yet again. i refer here to short-term special security measures such as the ones we saw last year at heathrow airport in london. these measures are a direct result of member state decisions and therefore should be funded by general taxation, not by the passenger, who is already fleeced when travelling by air. this issue has been the most contentious with council. parliament, however, stands united. this should send a strong message that the issue is not for negotiation. also, when looking at our previous aviation security legislation, we see that problems have developed, especially in the context of implementation. as we say, the devil is in the detail. for example, tons of in-transit duty-free goods are being confiscated from consumers. i now hear that this issue is being addressed and that the commission will be coming forward with proposals to alleviate this problem. i must pay tribute to commissioner barrot and to commission president barroso for taking action here and i hope to see commission officials follow their political lead and come up with speedy and workable solutions. i must also insist that parliament be kept informed of developments in this and other areas, as it is meps who have to answer to their citizens when things start to go wrong at europe’s airports. i do not want to see a delay to the implementation of these proposals over relatively minor issues. to conclude, we must not play politics with passenger safety.
mr president, i would also like to commend mr costa on his report. as he said in his introduction, we all want to travel safely and securely. both mr higgins, just now, and mr bradbourn, before him, referred to the alert over liquids in the uk last summer. unlike mr jarzembowski, most of us think that this threat is not just ever-present, but that it is one that is changing all the time. we cannot let up or compromise where aviation safety and security is concerned. european countries need to work together to achieve the highest possible standards, and yes, that does mean that some countries may wish to go further and put additional measures in place. but on other aspects passengers are confused. why are some airports seemingly more secure than others? why is there no european agreement yet on hand baggage allowances – on what is permitted and what is not? mr barrot, you said that we need to guarantee that safety rules are applied, and that is crucial. but you also spoke about fair competition, and i am not sure where competition comes into this debate. competition could mean compromise and, as others have said, there is no compromise when talking about aviation security. we all have to work together in this field.
in writing. – aviation security issues are of the utmost importance to our safety and need to be dealt with in a swifter manner than has so far been the case. a common minimum standard of security is needed not only because of the real threat of aviation crime, but also for the perceived threat that a lack of security shows the public. it is essential that member states pay for the cost of new security mechanisms and short-term special measures. passengers should not need to pay for security. smaller regional airports might have a hard time paying for new expensive measures, while airlines cannot be asked to increase their ticket prices. this is not a matter of passengers paying for the privilege of safety (this is no privilege but a given right), it is a matter of states keeping aeroplanes from crashing into populated areas on the ground. an effective evaluation of the measures we put into place is essential. some measures might turn out to be superficial; others might need to be more efficient. new mechanisms might need to be put into place.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after 9/11 le monde announced: ‘nous sommes tous américains’. times have changed. on economic, environmental and ethical grounds the united states government has been shredding the values for which america enjoyed our respect. the challenge for the eu member states is to resist us moves towards unilateralism, whether on trade policy, over kyoto or in respect for international law. this will require the frank, forthright, and sometimes fraught, transatlantic dialogue on issues like the visa waiver scheme, extradition and ‘open skies’, which our member states have thus far resisted. indeed, president bush succeeds in ‘divide and rule’ of europe at least as well as president putin. this summit is a time for some home truths. removing regulatory barriers and harmonising standards between the world’s largest trading partners must be our top priority. however, it should not come at the expense of securing a successful doha round before mr bush’s mandate expires on 1 july. we must also use the summit to force recognition of the greatest security threat of the modern age – climate change – and to make the americans agree to stabilise and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the un security council debated the issue for the first time last week, underlining the seriousness of the situation. but we must insist, too, that the administration clarify its position over allegations of torture, secret prisons and extraordinary rendition in the conduct of the war on terror. not only is it the right thing to do but it is the only thing to do to restore america’s reputation. in the long term, only wider democratic scrutiny involving this house and the us congress and senate, perhaps under a transatlantic schengen-style system, can strengthen our strategic relationship and prevent the kind of legal limbo that we are experiencing with passenger name recognition data or with swift payment transactions. success in the war on terror rests on balancing freedom and security, not sacrificing our civil liberties. the turmoil in iraq is proof of what happens when we get the balance wrong. the us and the european union should be helping to repair the damage and showing solidarity with iraq’s two million refugees. the americans have taken exactly 466 iraqi refugees since 2003. we know that they do not want to acknowledge a flight of refugees that is a symptom of their failure, but we need a clear and comprehensive aid budget and an agreement on sharing the burden of asylum claims. finally, our negotiators must not be afraid to take the initiative. paul wolfowitz has undermined the world bank’s moral authority. our message to them must be that it is time for him to go. in conclusion, i owe to an american poet, ralph waldo emerson, the thought that there is no such thing as history, only biography. europe’s leaders should bear in mind that they will be judged as individuals for the courage they summon up in washington.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i would like in the very short time allocated to me to make one or two observations, offering perhaps some words of caution. in the last couple of years i have seen that there is something of an addiction to gesture politics here, which is something we must be extremely careful to avoid in our relationships with the united states of america. the impact of legislation, for example, is completely global. everything we do has a global dimension. the serious gdp growth is in the pacific rim, india and china, notwithstanding other parts of the pacific and japan, so we must be extremely careful not to burn any bridges when dealing with the united states, which also has a very serious protectionist element in its society. as the british know, the united states is the uk’s biggest trading and investment partner and has been for some years. it is a shame that the british have been forced, against their will, to abandon the imperial measure, which of course we share with the united states of america, and which gave us a particular advantage there. however, that is something that must wait for another day.
mr president, here in this house we love to boast about our green credentials and to criticise the usa and president bush for their environmental vandalism. after all, we signed the kyoto protocol and they did not. let us pause for a reality check. in fact, the us did sign the kyoto protocol but they did not ratify it. here in europe we ratified, but we are not delivering. despite the commission spending the last 10 years trying to fudge the kyoto baseline figures, it still seems that perhaps only two member states will actually hit their kyoto targets. we say that the us is the world’s biggest polluter, but only because it is the world’s biggest economy. since kyoto has been in place, the us trend on co2 emissions has been better than ours! i repeat, for mr graham watson’s benefit, that in recent years the us trend on emissions has been better than the eu’s trend. the energy intensity of the us economy is similar to our own and, based on current trends, the us economy will be greener than that of europe by 2010. the usa has a vast biofuels programme. they are investing in green technology and their ap6 partnership engages china and india, without whom no global programme can succeed. commissioner špidla calls for the us to adopt a global approach, but it has already done so. it is time that we in this house stopped our moral posturing and started to treat our american ally with a little more courtesy and respect.
mr president, on a parliamentary visit to washington last week, we learned more about the high-level contact group on security than we did in brussels. thank goodness for the freedom of information culture in the united states! we also learned about renewed transatlantic discussions among officials on the legal basis for rendition. congressmen and meps must not only be informed but also included in that debate. the tactics of the global war on terrorism have failed, according to scotland yard’s counter-terrorism chief. he said yesterday that al-qa’ida had not only survived the six-year onslaught, but possessed momentum. we must certainly seek to build a common transatlantic justice and travel area in which there is maximum information-sharing. however, we must also insist on maximum safeguards and respect for fundamental rights. if the information shared is based on dubious profiling or data-mining exercises, or if it is tainted by torture, what value does it have? as one of the officials in washington said in that refreshingly direct american manner, ‘garbage in, garbage out’. the potential damage to individual rights is enormous. we must have more cooperation between the us congress and the european parliament in order to bring about democratic accountability and the desired goal of a transatlantic schengen-type zone.
mr president, the next eu-us summit will prove a historic one, and i fully support the german presidency’s initiative for an extensive economic partnership between the eu and the united states, which now represents some 40% of world trade, and in particular chancellor merkel’s ambitious aim for a transatlantic market without barriers by 2015 through mutual recognition of the same norms for various industries and services, particularly in the financial sector. some in this house would regrettably call this a transatlantic ‘rivalry’ rather than a ‘partnership’, because they view the eu as being in competition with the united states. if that is indeed the case, then america is clearly winning. the healthy long-term prospects of its free-enterprise economy are in sharp contrast to the eu’s gradual decline in a sea of over-regulation, which we must remedy before it is too late. eu-us relations, like eu-india ones – and i especially welcome the visit to our parliament later on today of president kalam of india – are a partnership built on our common values of democracy, human rights, freedom and security. on the world stage we should be grateful to the us that it is willing to bear a disproportionately large burden in fighting global terrorism, with its uncompromising stance on iran’s acquisition of a nuclear bomb, which now demands a similar response from eu governments. the us has led the way in calling for sanctions on sudan with regard to the genocide in darfur and has opposed arms exports to china. america is also helping make europe more secure through its deployment of missiles and missile shields, and it is now working with the eu to defend the quartet principles for a lasting arab-israeli peace. its engagement with countries like georgia, moldova, belarus and ukraine in an effort to resolve frozen conflicts is also most welcome. finally, we must together urge russia to behave as a reliable energy supplier and uphold its commitments to democracy and human rights.
mr president, as chairman of the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue, on tuesday last week i had the honour of leading parliament’s delegation in briefing congress in washington on the findings of the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. we received a robust response from the chairman of the international organizations subcommittee, congressman delahunt of massachusetts, who not only gave us his support but also thanked parliament for its work on this issue. this was the first time such a meeting had been held, in this case of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, under the umbrella of the tld and on the floor of congress. as our rapporteur, mr fava, told our american colleagues, it reflected great credit on congress that they were the first parliamentary body to ask parliament’s committee to share and discuss its findings. our criticisms have also been directed at european governments and national parliaments, which have to date failed to follow the congressional lead. as i told congress, we are allies who share common values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law, but in promoting these values elsewhere in the world we must ensure that they are maintained in our own countries. i hope that this congressional initiative, under the umbrella of the tld, will be taken up by other committees of this house in the weeks and months to come. this weekend i will be leading a small delegation from parliament, which will be in washington for high-level discussions on the margins of monday’s eu-us summit. i know that the council and commission give high priority to significantly improving the depth and regularity of dialogue between transatlantic legislators. in preparation for this summit a number of ideas have been floated. we will have to wait until monday to see how many are successful. but it is crucial that the summit declaration clearly spells out the need for closer dialogue. i conclude by saying that it is worth remarking that the three presidents, that is mr barroso, mr bush and mrs merkel, will be holding a formal briefing session with the transatlantic business dialogue and global corporate ceos but have not yet scheduled any such meeting with either us or eu legislators. i hope that they will put this omission right at future summits.
good luck with your delegation, mr evans.
commissioner, thank you for your efforts to shorten what was evidently a much longer speech. i have received seven motions for resolution see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place later today. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by mr swoboda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on croatia’s 2006 progress report (2006/2288(ini) (a6-0092/2007).
good luck with your delegation.
the house is grateful to mr gloser for the council and to mr špidla for the commission for renouncing their speaking time at the end of the debate. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i rise because a member of my group, mr geremek, is to have his mandate as a member of the european parliament revoked by his own government with effect from 19 april. the powers under which the polish government is revoking mr geremek’s mandate are a ‘lustration’ or monitoring law adopted just a couple of months ago which is currently under legal challenge in poland’s constitutional court. this law requires all journalists, academics and elected mps to sign a declaration stating that they never collaborated with the communist-era security services. mr geremek has signed such declarations in the past. his refusal to sign in this case is on moral rather than political grounds. he rightly objects to the witch-hunt which the polish government seeks. (loud and sustained applause)i would ask three things, mr president. i would ask first of all whether mr kaczyński, who met mr pöttering last week, raised this issue with him; secondly, whether it is right and indeed possible for a member of this house to be stripped of their democratically-elected mandate in this way; and thirdly, whether you would give this house the assurance that parliament will act to protect mr geremek’s right to exercise his democratically-elected mandate with all possible haste. (loud and sustained applause)
mr president, how often do we hear the argument that because a particular field of policy has an international dimension, we need eu jurisdiction? that argument is superficially plausible, but on closer inspection turns out to be specious, and nowhere is this more neatly demonstrated than in aviation policy. this is plainly an issue that crosses state borders, yet the way to deal with it, as we have seen in this report, is internationally rather than supra-nationally, and involves states outside the eu as well as within it. this is surely a better model for the organisation of our continent than the control of all cross-border matters from brussels. let us extend that dispensation beyond aviation.
in writing. i voted against those amendments which aimed for the european aviation safety authority to take on a security role. that is a separate issue and must not be confused.
in writing. today i voted in favour of the package of amendments designed to ensure the inclusion of key ethical safeguards in the legislation on advanced therapy medicinal products. the amendments aim to protect the principles of non-commercialisation of the human body and its parts through voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells, to prohibit all interventions in the human germline which could be passed on to future generations and to ensure that no material from human-animal hybrid embryos or chimeras would be used in research. finally, i welcome the amendment respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which in this case gives legal certainty to member states to opt out of the use of certain ethically controversial cells.
in writing. our position on today’s vote, and particularly on block 3, reflects a number of factors, including the belief that such matters should be decided at national level and the fact that our party has yet to take a formal position on certain questions which arose in today’s vote.
in writing. i voted against this report as it aimed to impose criminal sanctions on the end users of counterfeit goods, i.e. the consumers. i believe that it is the producers of these goods, not the consumers, that should be punished.
in writing. while the european parliamentary labour party very much supports the work of the rapporteur mr zingaretti on the proposal for criminal sanctions for the enforcement of intellectual property rights, we continue to have serious reservations on the commission proposal to rush to extend criminal sanctions to first pillar legislation before the completion of current hearings at the ecj. moreover some of the proposals passed today concerning the definitions of intentional infringement and commercial scale threaten to remove the discretion of trained and qualified national judges to take the circumstances of each individual case into account. such decisions are best left to national courts and national judges who have a wealth of experience in dealing with such cases. the text as voted by parliament runs the risk of potentially putting innocent consumers in prison, while at the same time creating loopholes for individual criminals engaged in organised and serious crime. the compromise which the rapporteur agreed will lead to legal uncertainty and remove an essential power of discretion from judges and national courts. for this reason the labour meps have voted against this
in writing. despite attempts by many eurosceptic ukip colleagues to demonise this report, i will be voting for it on the basis that the attempt by the commission and rapproteur to extend its remit to include inland waterways is rejected. as for the inclusion of domestic sea transport, the rules incorporated here already apply largely to the united kingdom. thus this poses no threat to ferry services in my region, be it to the scilly isles or lundy, nor will the international dimension have an impact on services from gibraltar. i see no reason why ultimately travellers on board ship should not have the same levels of protection as those that travel by train or plane.
in writing. i voted for this report to give protection in the case of accidents at sea. in particular, however, i voted against those amendments which sought to exclude inland waterways from the legislation, as i feel that there is a difference in liability cover between accidents at sea and those on water such as rivers.
in writing. i voted in favour of taking inland waterways out of the scope of this directive for a number of reasons. firstly, this report was introduced to facilitate adequate liabilities for seagoing ships, not inland waterways including river and estuary crossings. secondly, any extension of the scope of this proposal to include inland waterways would have caused severe problems not only on the leisure-based inland waterways of the uk but also on many river crossings that provide an essential public service as part of the public transport network. thirdly, bringing estuary crossings into this legislation would have added a considerable cost burden on operators, bringing into question the very viability of some of the operations. i was surprised that the liberal democrats supported the move to include inland waterways, as this could have adversely affected the operations of ferries across the river mersey, which they purport to support. thankfully the plenary, in its wisdom, has now overturned the view of our liberal rapporteur and removed the problems that i have alluded to. this means i can gladly vote for the report as amended by plenary.
in writing. along with my colleagues in the european parliamentary labour party i voted to exclude inland waterways from these measures. it was successfully carried in the face of opposition from the liberal democrats, who wanted to include these small craft, leading to disproportionate costs, reducing economic viability and a loss of service. i particularly condemn the outrageous press releases prior to these votes suggested by certain political parties, which raised false worries and concerns. of course operators such as isle of wight ferries may have been forced to consider their economic liability because of such opportunist press releases. it is therefore welcome that, as i said before, no such measures will be introduced.
in writing. i will be supporting this report. one issue europe must deal with urgently is the us request to establish theatre missile defence facilities on our eastern border. these proposals threaten to destabilise our relations with russia, encourage them to modernise and update their own missiles and nuclear weapons, while at the same time driving them to rather than deterring them from producing an islamic bomb. europe’s reaction will be an important test of our ability to project our own foreign policy interests, rather than acquiesce in the us neo-conservative agenda that threatens us all.
in writing. relations between the european union and the united states of america have proven very fruitful over the last decade. in particular, financial services is a very positive issue whereby administrations and politicians on both sides of the atlantic have seen real progress. if the aims of the oecd working paper of 29 may 2005 – which was adopted by both sides – can be put into practice, there would be great benefits. the barriers it mentions, if removed, would lead to growth of over 3% gni each year, year-on-year. the transatlantic marketplace needs hard work from both sides. failure to do so, however, means leaving our industries behind and our peoples at economic risk in the global environment.
in writing. my meeting with the president of india meant that i was unable to vote on this resolution. as a strong supporter of the transatlantic relationship, i would have voted in favour. however, i strongly object to what has become a regular and very dangerous sleight of hand in eu policy documents – the displacement of our national governments by the eu, in this instance in its efforts to become the single 'partner' of the us in the transatlantic relationship. this has particular significance for the uk. this language also appears in the reference to nato. furthermore, it should be recalled that the idea of a transatlantic single market was a british conservative initiative going back many years and included in more recent reports through my own amendment. as i see no justification for european parliament offices in other countries, i certainly oppose the costly proposal, in paragraph 40, of a permanent european parliament official post in washington dc.
in writing. i voted for this report, which congratulates croatia on some of the changes it has made in meeting the criteria for accession.
in writing. british conservatives supported the swoboda report but voted against amendments relating to recital g. conservatives are strong supporters of enlargement of the eu, in particular to include croatia, which will be a relatively smooth process, but are strongly opposed to the idea that a constitution is a requirement for further enlargement as stated in recital g.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, on the subject of human rights i would like to draw attention to the plight of a political prisoner in the european union. he has been imprisoned in rome for the last four months. he is now in poor health both physically and mentally. he is being held without prospects of release or trial to try and break his will, in an attempt to force him to sign false confessions against himself and others. his name is mario scaramella and his alleged offences are contrived accusations without foundation. mr scaramella was, of course, the man who went to london in november 2006 to warn alexander litvinenko that he was about to be murdered. mr scaramella and mr litvinenko had both been associated with the mitrokhin commission for investigating links between italian politicians and the kgb. mr scaramella should be released and returned to his family immediately, pending any trial.
madam president, in this my 100th speech in this house i am glad to be talking about human rights: something which we all take for granted, but to which millions can only yet aspire. as a major player, particularly in trade, the eu has a key role to play. we are good on all the platitudes about human rights, but do we see them through? take china, for example, with whom we facilitate vast trade. frankly, however, we do little to insist on parallel human rights compliance. we could do so much more. vested interest is no excuse, nor is it when it comes to western-friendly pakistan. there, increasingly savage persecution of christians is rampant under the aegis of islamic extremism, wicked blasphemy laws and forced conversions. here the eu’s role is not just complacent or ambivalent: it is an area where we are complicit through the millions of euros which we pour into the madrassas. many of these schools, like lalmasjid, are training grounds for islamic extremism, so why do we keep funding them? both in our trade agreements and in our development aid, we need to proof our actions more robustly against true human rights standards. i conclude by commending the rapporteur for yet another comprehensive report.
mr president, firstly may i congratulate mr coveney. in his report, he has adopted the new approach which we agreed last year, that the work of parliament, in terms of an annual human rights report, should be to scrutinise what is done by council and the commission and advancing what we can do throughout the european union to promote human rights, not simply acting as a commentary. i thank him and congratulate him for that. i was very sad to hear that he will be pursuing a national parliamentary career in future and not standing again for this parliament. i just want to place on record that he has been a good champion of human rights and a good colleague of ours. in this debate, i believe we can emphasise that the european union can do more to promote human rights. many of us are concerned. parliament will continue to be intimately involved in ensuring that europe’s actions and involvement in the un human rights council are more effective. it has not made the start that we all hoped for. in the resolution, we drew attention to the fact that the commission is chairing the kimberley process. let us use that to get the independent verification system that the ngos called for by st valentine’s day 2007, which was a good aim. we welcome the fact that after our criticisms of europe’s position vis-à-vis belarus and the ilo last year, and given the attacks and harassment of trade unionists, the commission has now recommended pulling out of trade preferences for belarus. you have listened. thank you for that. we can do more. on human rights treaties, we are concerned about cluster bombs. many european countries, led by belgium and including, i am pleased to say, my own country the united kingdom, now support a binding treaty to ban cluster bombs. i am deeply happy that europe has led the campaign for the un convention on disabled people’s rights. that was the fastest agreed human rights convention in the un’s history. the european communities have signed up to it for the first time. next year, let the communities and the member states sign the optional protocol so that there is a complaints procedure. show us that you are still listening.
mr president, i was privileged to observe the 2006 ukrainian parliamentary election, which was held in exemplary fashion. regrettably, the outcome then produced neither a stable government nor a climate of financial probity amongst many of the verkhovna rada mps, who had little interest in politics and really only a vested interest to protect their business interests or avoid prosecution by acquiring parliamentary immunity. i was therefore not surprised to hear the allegations that mps were being bribed large sums to cross the floor in an attempt by the governing coalition to achieve the magical 300 seats, or constitutional majority, required to finally strip president yushchenko of his remaining powers. i personally have always championed ukraine’s intrinsic right under article 49 of the treaty to apply for eu membership. that is still some way off, given enlargement fatigue and the fear by some member states of offending russia. nevertheless, i believe the council missed a trick in not granting ukraine, in the heady days of the orange revolution, the same status as western balkan countries like albania of being called a potential candidate for eventual eu accession. this would have been a great carrot to westernising democratic reformist forces. it is very regretful that this did not happen. i believe ukraine will come through this most recent constitutional crisis without violence and fully respect european norms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. i strongly condemn the alleged attempts to intimidate the constitutional court judges in their legal deliberations over the legitimacy of president yushchenko’s dissolution of the verkhovna rada. in the meantime, i welcome eu plans for a free-trade and visa-facilitated travel area after ukraine joins the wto. ideally, in 2008 the expiring pca should be replaced by an association agreement. either way, ukrainians must be brought closer to the european union, where they rightfully belong. it is clear to me that the enduring legacy of the orange revolution, namely a free press and democratic elections, remains intact.
madam president, i rise in sadness, and not in anger. after the second world war, we still have not learned the lessons. during the 1930s we stood and watched as jews, communists, trade unionists and homosexuals were taken off to the camps. we stood. we said and did nothing. we have now moved on. i say to those countries that have lived under domination and repression that they, of all countries, should know the value of fundamental human rights, freedom of association, freedom of speech and the right to a private life. (applause)you should be teaching us about fundamental values. that is why we will not hesitate to defend human rights and human rights defenders, wherever they are. let me say to anyone who feels under attack wherever they are – and, as a gay man, i could have been born in poland, latvia or the czech republic in fear of my life, in fear of my job – you are not alone, we are with you and we will win for the simple reason that goodness and justice always succeed in the end. when we refer to politicians in office and the statements that were made, we are not talking about a one-off statement but rather a series of statements that have been calculated and made over the years. hate-speak creates a climate that somehow lives are inferior, that the person poses a threat to society. a climate is created and fear is engendered, rights are under threat. words once spoken cannot be taken back and the harm that is done continues and the words too often empower the thug, which leads to violence. i note that mr weber says ‘no to homophobia’. however, it is sad that he also says ‘no’ to doing anything about it here in this house today. let me finish on this: we will succeed, but that means we have to take up our responsibility to defend human rights and to end human rights abuses, wherever they are. (applause)
the next item is question time (b6-0017/2207). the following questions are addressed to the council. question no 1 by manuel medina ortega (h-0177/07) subject: bolstering the frontex agency what action has the council taken in order to bolster the operations of the agency for the management of external borders (frontex), with a view to ensuring that there are no massive influxes of immigrants over the next few months, such as occurred last year?
question 2 has been withdrawn. question no 3 by sarah ludford (h-0183/07) subject: the investigation and prosecution of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes in order to increase the effectiveness of the investigation and prosecution by law enforcement authorities of persons who have committed genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, the council adopted decision 2002/494/jha oj l 167, 26.6.2002, p. 1. on setting up a network of contact points on genocide and decision 2003/335/jha oj l 118, 14.5.2003, p. 12. on the investigation and prosecution of serious international crimes. what plans does the council have to improve the institutional infrastructure of the network, in order to strengthen cooperation among the national authorities and contribute to the creation of a consistent approach by member states in the fight against impunity for grave international crimes? what is the attitude of the council regarding a suggestion to establish eurojust as the secretariat for the network? will the council consider including the network on the agenda of the article 36 committee (cats) meetings so as to ensure a follow up of network conclusions? in light of article 4 of council decision 2003/335/jha, how will the council address the current lack of specialised war crimes units within member states?
yes, that is reasonably encouraging. i hope that you will conclude that eurojust should indeed be a secretariat or at least a contact point. i am glad that there is going to be a meeting in may of the contact group – unfortunately there was none under the last presidency. can you assure me that the european parliament will be informed about the conclusions of that meeting? as the council begins the process of developing the post-hague jha programme, what steps will be taken to ensure that the eu’s commitment to fight impunity from international crimes, genocides, crimes against humanity and war crimes, both within the union and outside, is included as a vital part of the justice, freedom and security agenda so as to create a single area of justice for victims of the gravest crimes?
question no 4 by glenis willmott (h-0184/07) subject: type 1 diabetes type 1 diabetes, a condition most commonly found in children, is a disease which predominantly affects european populations, more so than the much talked about type 2 diabetes. finland has the highest registered number of sufferers in the world, with the uk ranked fourth on the list. there is little understanding of what causes type 1 diabetes and attention needs to be turned towards ensuring that sufferers can enjoy the best quality of life possible. a timely and accurate diagnosis and effective control is essential for this. what measures does the council intend to take to ensure not only that all diabetes sufferers have access to a minimum standard of care across member states but also to ensure that the insulin pump, widely believed to be the best tool currently available to help well-motivated diabetes sufferers to achieve improved control and quality of life, is available to all those who need it?
given that type 1 diabetes predominantly affects children and that poor management of diabetes in children can cause problems in the long run, such as kidney failure, blindness and amputations, what measures can the council put in place to ensure the provision of appropriate education for the patient and his family, as well as providing education campaigns about the disease, in order to prevent the discrimination that many diabetes sufferers come across?
the president-in-office replied that the eu has no legislative competence, which is true, but it has the framework programme for research. does the council believe that the eu is providing enough financial backing for research into type 1 diabetes? my understanding is that scientists believe that a cure for type 1 diabetes is deliverable, although a concerted effort will be required to achieve this. it is probably the worldwide disease for which we have the best chance of finding a cure. i should add that i must declare an interest, as my husband is the chairman of the uk arm of the juvenile diabetes research foundation, which supports research on type 1 diabetes.
question no 5 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0186/07) subject: provision of child care following the barcelona european council in 2002, when member states agreed that by 2010 child care should be available to at least 90% of children between 3 and 6 years old, and at least 33% of children under 3 years of age, and in light of the new commission communication on demographic changes within europe, can the council report on how close different member states are to achieving these targets?
thank you, president-in-office, but with respect that was a very general answer. perhaps that is all you can provide me with at this stage, but could i ask you to kindly e-mail me any details you have, or indicate how i can obtain a breakdown of details by member state because, as you rightly say, improving the work/family life balance is a priority and it is in all our interests to ensure that priority is widely shared. i hope that you will in turn encourage your successor presidency to take it on board as a priority too.
question no 6 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0188/07) subject: updating the directive on 'television without frontiers' and combating violence and discrimination in the context of updating the community directive on audiovisual media, known by the title 'television without frontiers', does the council intend to adopt a common policy against the use of violence and material offensive to human dignity, in particular when the media target children and young people or the content of their programmes concerns women's issues and disadvantaged social groups? is it possible that heightening the awareness of members of the council in regard to the above matters is of more crucial importance than rules relating to the free market, competition and the international obligations of the union?
question no 7 by bernd posselt (h-0189/07) subject: bringing macedonia closer to the eu what possibilities does the council presidency see for continuing the process of bringing macedonia closer to the eu, and what practical progress might be brought about by candidate status for this country in the foreseeable future?
question no 8 by sajjad karim (h-0192/07) subject: darfur the sudanese government continues not only to fail in its responsibility to protect its citizens in darfur, but continues to support janjawid militias which, together with sudanese government forces, bear the largest responsibility for grave violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in this area. in light of the sudanese government’s recent refusal to administer visas for the united nations human rights council high-level mission to darfur, which follows consistent objection to the necessary deployment of a un peacekeeping force, is the council willing to consider targeted sanctions against khartoum and is it able to confirm that it is doing everything in its power to press russia and china to act, as their strategic oil interests in sudan make them well-placed to influence the sudanese government?
deputising for the author. – there is a dreadful sense of impasse over darfur, with lots of hand-wringing but no progress, and recent events have rather added to that feeling. in the absence of an agreement on a un peacekeeping force, is the council considering, among the further measures it is looking into at the moment, the possibility of an eu-enforced no-fly zone, with the enforcement planes based over the border in chad? that has been discussed periodically since 2004. does the president-in-office feel that now is the moment to implement it?
question no 9 by tobias pflüger (h-0196/07) subject: extrajudicial executions in the philippines what is the council's assessment of the political situation in the philippines, where more than 830 left-wing political activists, journalists, lawyers, judges, human rights activists, priests and trade unionists have been killed in extrajudicial executions since gloria macapagal arroyo's government took office in 2001, a situation which has recently been strongly criticised by the un special rapporteur philip alston? what is the council's assessment of the arroyo government's evident failure to act and reports that the philippines army is behind these killings?
question no 10 by sahra wagenknecht (h-0199/07) subject: attacks on anti-war activists in sri lanka on 9 january 2007, members of sri lanka's united people's movement (upm) were attacked and chased by an armed mob before a public rally. according to reports in the media, a deputy minister, mervyn silva, was involved in the attacks. what view does the council take of direct attacks on peace activists in sri lanka by members of the sri lankan government? how will this incident affect the council's support for the government in future?
question no 11 by danute budreikaite (h-0201/07) subject: ecological consequences of the northern oil pipeline the northern dimension policy, of which the baltic sea strategy is a constituent part, places particular emphasis on the environment and climate change. the baltic sea is one of the world’s most contaminated seas. furthermore, 282 000 tonnes of dangerous weapons have lain on its bed since the second world war. economic activities, and in particular the planned construction of the northern oil pipeline, may lead to an ecological disaster whose consequences are difficult to predict. does not the country that holds the presidency and which is a participant in the project consider that, before it starts to implement projects of this kind, the eu should obtain independent expertise on the possible ecological consequences of the construction of a gas pipeline? clearly, expertise provided by the authors of the project and relating to their own interests will not convince the community’s citizens of the safety of the project.
question no 12 by georgios papastamkos (h-0203/07) subject: eu territorial agenda one of the priority objectives of the eu german presidency is the adoption of an eu territorial agenda. what measures does the council intend to take in practice towards an integrated urban and rural development policy? will the projected leipzig charter effectively combine this policy with regional development policy and, if so, how?
questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). i should like to thank the president-in-office and colleagues. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.00 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the rapporteur accepts that government finances in several eurozone countries are still not in good shape. sovereign debts in italy and greece have not fallen significantly, and although deficits have been falling, this is a result of some higher economic growth helped by global recovery. it is not evidence that the stability pact is working. however, this week’s news from spain has shown that weak government finances are not the only threat to the functioning of the euro. spain has an awful trade deficit of 9.5% of gdp, and its construction asset price boom, which has driven domestic demand, is now definitely over. the boom was driven by euro interest rates which had been far too low but are now too high. spain can now look forward to serious economic difficulties, with rising unemployment and deteriorating government finances. the normal solution to this dilemma would be for spain to lower its interest rates and devalue, but neither of these options is available as it shares the single currency. there are therefore three possible outcomes. the first: to forestall a crisis, the european central bank reduces the euro interest rate. germany would not like this, as it would lead to rising inflation; it would also mean the european central bank losing its hard-won reputation for holding down inflation expectations. the second possible outcome is that spain leaves the eurozone and re-establishes its own currency, enabling it to devalue and have suitably low interest rates. yes, we have come to the point when this may no longer be unthinkable. it would lead to serious problems of private and public sector debt default that would spill over across the whole eurozone. other countries would not want this, which makes the third possible outcome maybe the most likely, and that is large-scale bailout by other countries, despite maastricht rules against this, and this would be accompanied by centralisation of control over spanish public finances. i do not know which of these outcomes will take place, but it is time we faced up to the circumstances: spain is a large country and the european union would not find it easy to stand idle while it suffers in recession.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, airbus, alcatel, lucent and delphi systems are just the latest in a never-ending stream of instances of major restructuring that have led delegations of workers to come to us complaining of breaches of eu information and consultation laws, not just the works council directive, but others too: directives on collective redundancies and transfers dating from the 1970s, and the directive establishing a general framework for information and consultation of workers. we have quite a body of information on consultation laws, but the inconsistencies and contradictions between them and the loopholes in them mean that they are often avoided altogether. there is often no attempt at meaningful information or consultation in good time in avoiding or mitigating job losses. we urgently need a clear definition of the concepts of information and consultation in eu law. we have different definitions in several different directives. the works council directive does not define either notion clearly, while the later directives on a company statute and the general framework have different definitions. this is an open door to abuse and avoidance. the need for a revision to the works council directive is now glaringly obvious: it was due for revision eight years ago. the deficiencies and loopholes are well known: failure to provide timely information and consultation, to fully recognise the role of trade unions, to provide expert support, the inadequacy of sanctions, the misuse of confidentiality rules to withhold information and so on. these deficiencies must now be addressed to give workers the effective tools they need. i know there is a view that a revision should not be launched because we might end up with a weaker, not a stronger, instrument. the view of my group is that the avoidance and abuse of this legislation is now of such scale and breadth that we have nothing to lose in insisting on a revision. i urge the commissioner to bring that provision forward as a matter of urgency.
in writing. – the reason for this statement and next month’s resolution is the appalling situation regarding airbus in europe. a combination of mismanagement, unfair competition and poor judgement has threatened the success of this most vital of european industries. i find it inconceivable that the us with boeing should totally dominate the world market for medium- and larger-scale aircraft. boeing has its civilian sales and r&d underpinned by military contracts and military r&d: a sad indictment of europe’s lack of a common defence and security policy. nevertheless, the key problem here is that despite massive eu and national governments loans to airbus, it was run like some kind of edwardian corner shop with minimum consultation with the workforce. workers possess one of the most important resources for any industrial enterprise – craft knowledge and experience. it may well be that by focusing on that, management could have avoided some of its worst mistakes. now a minimum of 10 000 families face the prospect of suffering job losses. if this company in the vanguard of european industry pays so little attention to its most important asset, its workforce, it can only be time for the commission to strengthen and reinforce legislation that is clearly not strong enough.
mr president, i do not wish to hold up the proceedings, but i and others tabled a text for a written declaration concerning the fact that the bureau of this parliament had reversed its decision to introduce a total ban on smoking in the european parliament. i have received communications from the services and now from the president stating that a written declaration on an internal matter of the parliament is not within the rules. however, if you look at the rules of procedure it is very clear that a written declaration may concern any matter within the field of responsibilities of the european union, which clearly this is. could i therefore ask through you that the president refer the matter of interpreting the rules on this point to the committee that is responsible for interpreting the rules, namely the committee on constitutional affairs?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner for his statement. here in parliament we have long wanted to discuss the whole of our relationship with switzerland and to celebrate swiss success in three successive referendums on eu issues – referendums that would scarcely have passed in many of our member states. although switzerland is not a member state, swiss people are informed europeans. we wanted to discuss the interesting government report on european policy last autumn to recognise that, yes, the swiss wish at present to pursue their own national interests outside membership, but also perhaps to counter some misconceptions about what might be on offer here. in my view it amounts, as the commissioner has said, to building on the bilaterals and perhaps a framework agreement that simplifies the administrative load on both sides. however, what some of us would call ‘membership-light’ is not on offer, and that is where the current difficulties over cantonal tax might stem from. either you are a member of the european union or you are not. switzerland is not, and both sides do well to recall that. switzerland does not enjoy the benefits of membership, nor is that country subject to all of the obligations. that is the difficulty of such an atypical, variable geometry: it will forever throw up problems and sources of irritation. however, those problems should be solved with goodwill. let us take the tax issue head on. if what the commission really wants from switzerland – which i suspect to be the case – is to extend the code of conduct for business taxation, then let us talk about that. even between member states it is a voluntary code. i have no doubt that there are offshore taxation arrangements in a member state i know only too well that would not bear close scrutiny, yet i do not see such activity from the commission in that direction. we need a discussion as benefits the relationship between the eu and our nearest geographic neighbour in the heart of europe, a country providing our second largest export market and an inspiration to us and many in terms of its democratic structures and internationalism. instead, we tell the swiss that their cantonal tax systems are ‘predatory’. that is a strong and unpleasant word. if they are indeed predatory, i would expect to see a line of obvious cases of actual harm to community trade: practical examples that could be cited and demonstrated as having this predatory effect. i have seen none mentioned. indeed, the commission relies instead on an argument that it does not have to demonstrate but merely show that the structures could have this effect. however, there are no actual examples and i wonder whether that is because, under examination, they would not stand up against the strained argument that is put forward – an argument against a non-member state, based on an old free trade agreement, designed primarily to deal with the trade in goods. let us look at it in another way. perhaps my voters in yorkshire might wonder why i spend so much time on switzerland. however, if my northerly region of england had enjoyed over the years the level of fiscal autonomy vis-à-vis london that swiss cantons have in their country, maybe we would not have been such a drain on eu structural funds. switzerland contributes financially to our enlargement process with popular consent. this is a deep and complicated relationship, one that over the years i have found exasperating and frustrating, but never, ever dull! we are often told to be nice to the swiss before a referendum. we are asked continuously what we will do if they vote ‘no’. the answer is that the choice is always that of the swiss people, but if they wish to work with us, we have to work with them in a respectful and proper way. the best i would like to see is that one day there are swiss ministers in the council, a swiss commissioner and swiss colleagues here with us to debate these issues, not us doing so at second remove.
mr president, the european union has many bilateral agreements with switzerland. these have seen the prospering of both the swiss and member states of the european union. the bilateral agreements should be recognised by all representatives of a joint and shared desire for prosperity. there are further indicators that show the things we share and the direction we are heading: amongst other things, switzerland is the second-largest trading partner of the european union after the united states. 900 000 eu citizens live and work in switzerland, while many more travel between these borders on a regular basis. however, the present disagreement between the commission and the swiss government is disconcerting and should be addressed swiftly. i realise that the issue of double taxation which the eu and switzerland are facing is no small one, but i would not like to see threats made in the preliminary rounds of negotiations, or in later rounds for that matter. the issue of double taxation does not offer an easy way to investment, jobs and revenue for the swiss cantons that allow the double standards. the council and commission and parliament should do its utmost to protect the interests of the member states. i wish you well in your negotiations and look forward to a positive outcome.
mr president, why are the swiss doing so much better than us? why is the helvetic confederation richer, more content, more orderly and better administered than the european union? allow me to suggest a reason. switzerland is founded on what one might call the ‘jeffersonian principle’: the notion that decisions should be taken as closely as possible to the people they affect. the european union, by contrast, is founded on the converse principle. the very first line of the very first article of the treaty of rome commits us to an ever-closer union. whereas power in switzerland is dispersed, power in the eu is concentrated, and from that one structural flaw come most of our present discontents: the unintended consequences of our directives and regulations, the inflexibility of our policies, the sense that the government has become remote from the governed, the determination of our national electorates to vote ‘no’ to brussels at every opportunity. why then do we keep bullying and hectoring the swiss over their refusal to join us? why do we attack their success in keeping their cantonal taxes down? why do we encourage that minority of swiss legislators who see eu membership precisely as a way of sidestepping their voters and escaping their system of direct democracy? is it that we envy our neighbours their success or is it that we fear that our own citizens will be encouraged by their example to demand independence for their own states? let me propose an alternative approach. instead of seeking to drag switzerland into our union, why do our member states not instead apply to become cantons of their confederation? they are, after all, getting something right, these switzers!
mr president, i wish to move an oral amendment to amendment 19 so that the second half of the paragraph includes the words ‘urges expansion of the temporary international mechanism and’, with it then continuing ‘urges the council and the commission to monitor changing circumstances closely’, etc. this oral amendment would therefore simply add some words from the original paragraph 28 to the text of amendment 19.
mr president, i promise that this is the last time. i would like to propose a small and efficient amendment to amendment 13, so that it reads: ‘calls on its committees to make every reasonable effort to respect gender balance’. this would allow the alde group to vote for this amendment. otherwise, we will have to abstain, because the original text is too prescriptive. i hope that this oral amendment can be accepted and that it will maybe even allow the rapporteur to accept the amendment.
in writing. british conservatives recognise the important role of the eu in promoting human rights and democracy in the world, as it is highlighted in the coveney report. however, there are a number of paragraphs that we fundamentally disagree with, for instance paragraphs 4, 16, 28, 31, 47 and 132. for this reason, british conservatives abstained overall in the final vote on the report.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe in the dignity of the human being, which should never be taken away through sentencing to death.
in writing. the uk independence party will not support this resolution because we believe the european parliament has no business laying down moral standards in different member states.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have abstained on this joint motion for a resolution. while we abhor all discrimination against gay people and all aspects of homophobia, we believe this motion has been brought forward on a politically speculative basis with a serious lack of factual information. we believe it would be wise to await the developments with regard to poland referred to in the motion, rather than commenting on generalised allegations.
in writing. i am proud to have voted for this resolution and very much regret the antagonistic approach taken by some colleagues to its being tabled. this is the european year of equal opportunities in a union which prides itself on its commitment to human rights. however, we still have certain member states, such as poland, where the government has yet to realise what such a commitment means in reality. it means delivering on equality at work; it means that you do not use language which incites hatred and attacks on individuals simply because of who they are; it means respecting the human rights of others, including their right to assembly and to be protected from violence - including state violence. i sincerely hope that this is the last time that this house has to address this issue as i trust that member states will fulfil their duties under the law and under international convention. i extend my thanks to those members from the states concerned who have also voted for this resolution.
in writing. the conservative party in the european parliament has consistently opposed (and remains opposed) to the entry of the united kingdom into the euro zone, and in doing so usually abstains with regard to reports on the operation of economic and monetary union, as these are matters for those countries who are in the euro zone. however, we understand that the health of the economies of those countries which have opted to join the emu is important to that of the uk and we support all measures which seek to ensure the economic stability of our major trading partners. we are abstaining in this instance, but wish to state our endorsement of the rapporteur’s strong commitments to sound public finances and the proper application of the stability and growth pact. such principles are essential to healthy economic and trading conditions and a good relationship between the uk economy and the economies of the euro zone.
the next item is the council and commission statements on zimbabwe.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i wish to thank the commission and the council for their statements. every member of this house will be aware of the appalling situation in zimbabwe. we have expressed our views in some 16 resolutions in recent years, but the mugabe regime persistently reminds us that no matter how bad the situation, it can always make matters tragically worse. millions have fled the country; many of those who remain are on food aid; hyper-inflation is expected to reach 5000% by the end of this year; unemployment stands at 80%; 3000 people a week die from hiv-aids; and zimbabwe has the world’s highest orphan rate. those are the grim statistics. when people try to gather or make any sort of protest, they are, as we have seen, brutally attacked by the regime’s police. i agree that there has been one positive development: mugabe’s latest brutalities have at last provoked a response from neighbouring african countries. this must be encouraged. the southern african development community has finally recognised that a crisis exists in zimbabwe. that is a very significant development. it is further evidence that opinion across africa is shifting. mugabe is now seen by his peers as a dictator who has selfishly abused his own people and whose actions threaten wider economic development across the whole continent. they no longer accept mugabe’s tired excuse that zimbabwe’s problems came from outside. it is clear for all to see that it is mugabe who has brought his country and its people to their knees. he went into the sadc summit expecting endorsement of his policies, but instead left with a flea in his ear and the appointment of south african president mbeki as facilitator of the dialogue between zanu-pf and the opposition. mbeki’s task will be to create conditions for free and fair elections. however, until freedom is restored to zimbabwe there must be no let-up on the pressure on the regime. all too often, european governments have on spurious grounds failed even to apply the eu’s own travel ban and other restrictive measures. when mugabe finally falls from power, the international community must be ready to act without delay. i call upon the commission and the council to begin serious planning now for a massive, comprehensive and urgent programme of assistance to zimbabwe for the post-mugabe era.
madam president, i am in total agreement with what mr gahler said with regard to mr pafilis. i have never heard such perversion of the truth in my life as what he just said in this house. first of all, i welcome the joint motion that seeks strongly to uphold the sanctions against the ruthless violence of the regime that is plaguing zimbabwe in the worst possible way. i thank those who have worked hard on this motion for a resolution, and i am pleased with the result. isolating mugabe and other members of his regime is of the utmost importance in showing both the international community and the other african nations that the european union member states will not tolerate these blatant abuses of human rights and dignity. we have consistently opposed this brutal menace and will continue to do so together. mugabe should remember his promise to step down and do so now. this is the only action that he could take to benefit zimbabwe. absolute power corrupts absolutely. members of zimbabwe’s illegitimate government are not allowed to enter any eu member state and i refer, in particular, to the eu-africa summit scheduled to be held in lisbon in december. the joint motion for a resolution makes clear and reasserts that this move would seriously undermine the european union’s resolve. it would hamper the future use of soft power wherever we might need it. the european union sanctions in place put real pressure on mugabe’s brutal regime. as such, they need to be reinforced, strengthened and taken to the next level. as regards the next level, it is well known that mugabe is seeking financial backing and support from countries, such as china, that are not always as firm on issues of freedom and democracy as i and many others would like. this joint motion shows parliament’s determination to take this issue to the un security council. finally, the money that we give to zimbabwe must be spent in the proper way and must not swell the dictator’s coffers. i end by stating very clearly that we are for the zimbabwean people but we are not in any way for mr mugabe.
i have received six motions for resolution see minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on recent repression of demonstrations in russia see minutes..
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions see minutes. on the kidnapping in gaza of the journalist alan johnston.
author. – madam president, with your agreement i should like to begin by saying that last week over one thousand bbc staff, friends and colleagues of alan johnston gathered at vigils for him at bbc buildings across the world. i should like to welcome the bbc staff working here in strasbourg who, in tribute to their missing colleague, are in the public gallery today to listen to our debate. (applause) when a kidnapping takes place anywhere in the world, the victim’s friends and family always look to the media to keep the fate of their loved one in the eye of the public and of us as politicians. when the kidnapped person is himself a journalist, it is our responsibility to cherish their fate as they cherish others’. such is the case with bbc journalist alan johnston, abducted in gaza 46 days ago. alan’s career personally symbolises the outstanding reputation of the bbc for integrity and objectivity. having previously worked in uzbekistan and afghanistan, alan is passionate about his reporting on the palestinian people, with whom he has a close connection and for whom he has deep respect. this has resonated among his audience, 50 000 of whom have this week signed the online petition asking for his release. our first thoughts are, of course, with graham and margaret johnston and with the other members of his family, to whom we send our sympathy and support. i would like to pay tribute to the efforts of all the bbc management and staff and to journalists, trade unions in britain and worldwide who have led the campaign for alan’s release. one of the colleagues here today told me that alan is known quite simply as someone who brings stories to life. today his life is our story. alan johnston’s courageous presence, as the only permanently-based western journalist in gaza, has precisely enabled him to report the suffering of the palestinian people, and now he has become the ultimate case of a journalist caught up in his own story – a victim of the suffering itself. we are told that alan remains alive and secure, but not who is holding him. we can speculate whether his abduction was for reasons of politics, money or recognition, but we do not know which, if any. we can recognise that to prevent what has happened to alan from happening to others requires a political understanding and solution. however, today our response is not political – it is humanitarian, to say to whoever is listening: release alan johnston without harm and without hindrance. the european parliament should welcome the assurances of help made by europe’s foreign ministers this week and of ‘permanent contact’ promised by our own high representative. we are sure you will act on these promises. i understand too that commissioner almunia, responding to today’s debate, will pledge that his colleague mr michel will this weekend press alan johnston’s case with president abbas and representatives of the palestinian authority. we thank you. the european parliament acknowledges the support and cooperation of the palestinian authority and we are proud of europe’s support to sustain your staff and the vital services they provide, but it is your intelligence services who have been able to make contact with those who have abducted alan, and it is in you that we place our hopes for a breakthrough. in radio circles, they say that the biggest crime is to say nothing into the microphone. alan johnston’s kidnapping is the radio silence that now must come to an end. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – i too would like to offer my support and that of the alde group to alan johnston and his family. i do not think any of us can imagine why he is being held. he is a man who has consistently spoken up for the palestinian people. to kidnap someone like him is unbelievable. what do they hope to achieve? it certainly does nothing for the palestinian cause, as many palestinians themselves have pointed out. his only offence is his belief that the story of gaza and its people should be told in a fair and balanced way, and he has being doing that in an exceptional manner for the last three years. he was the only foreign correspondent living permanently in the gaza strip. we all hoped that he would have been released by now, as the 14 others kidnapped since 2005 were released, and we are today adding our voices to those calling for the palestinian authority to redouble its efforts to secure alan johnston’s speedy release. we are also calling for all attacks on journalists to cease. what more can any of us say? i am sure that people across the eu are hoping and praying for his release. all we are doing today is trying to add our voices to those of his parents and his colleagues, and to say to his kidnappers: realise that if anything happens to him, you will have lost a strong voice telling your story to the world. all you will achieve is to isolate yourself and the palestinian people further. that cannot be what you want. you want your voice to be heard, not to be further marginalised. these acts make it more difficult for those of us who have always supported the palestinian cause to persuade people of the validity of the argument, and that is why it is completely self-defeating and betrays the palestinian people, who continue to suffer.
madam president, alan johnston has been a bbc journalist for 16 years and has worked in a variety of countries, including afghanistan and uzbekistan, so he has not exactly chosen a comfortable life! during his three years in gaza he has taken a strong interest in social and political developments there and he has told the story of the people of gaza. therefore, as others have said, it very much harms the palestinian cause for him not to be doing the job that he loves and does so well. in 2005 and 2006 alone, 181 journalists and assistants were killed, 1678 arrested, 56 kidnapped and 2780 physically attacked or threatened. the year 2006 saw the highest death toll since 1994 when 103 died, in particular in rwanda, algeria and the former yugoslavia. censorship and media bans are, of course, widespread and persistent. in this joint motion for a resolution we are calling on all eu bodies – member state diplomats, the high representative for cfsp and the commission – to strengthen and coordinate their efforts to secure mr johnston’s release. we are also calling on the palestinian authority to increase its efforts and it, no doubt, will give the matter all the greater priority if it is pressed by the palestinian people. i thank all those in gaza – journalists and citizens of all kinds – for their vocal demands for alan johnston’s release. they know that they need a journalist of integrity and commitment to give them a window on the world. free democracies cannot flourish without press freedom. as we insist on alan johnston’s safe return, we salute the courage of all journalists who put their safety on the line in order to bring the truth to the world and to allow us all to enjoy democracy.
thank you for those statements. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions see minutes. on the philippines.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, gloria arroyo’s succession to the philippines presidency after former president estrada’s impeachment trial on corruption charges, and her eventual election in may 2004, have brought some improvements to the country, particularly in terms of security. the government of the philippines has degraded the military effectiveness of islamist terrorists in the south-east, and negotiated a peace accord with one group and an ongoing ceasefire with another. however, for some time, sadly there has been a series of murky extrajudicial killings, allegedly carried out by the security forces. the government rightly recognised this as a very serious matter and ordered appropriate investigations. this resulted in a series of recommendations this february from justice melo’s independent commission, set up specifically to address this issue, followed by a six-point government-endorsed plan to stop further human rights abuses and end the existing climate of impunity. i warmly welcome this approach, and in particular the setting-up of a dedicated police task force, usig, to bring those in authority who have ordered human rights violations to eventual justice.
that concludes the debate. the vote will be taken shortly.
thank you, and thanks too to mr nooke.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 17.00)
mr president, i think that ‘mind your own business!’ is the best reaction i can give to this resolution. housing and regional policy within the member states is a matter for democratically elected national governments, and it is not for the european commission to poke its nose into. as well as using much pseudo-intellectual mumbo jumbo, the text also manages to be incredibly patronising when it makes statements of the blindingly obvious such as ‘stresses the importance of safety issues’. this is like a doctor lecturing his patient on the importance of continuing to breathe. the british government says we must build half a million houses, mostly for first-time buyers and lower-paid purchasers. i may not agree with this entirely, but i would sooner accept this idea as closer to our needs than the wishy-washy ideas that this eu report has come up with. despite its frequent use of the wonder word ‘subsidiarity’, this resolution is a recipe for housing policy micromanagement from brussels and more gross interference in the way the member states are governed. we in britain do not need brussels to tell us what sort of houses we need, or when and where to build them.
mr president, across the european union, housing affordability is creeping up the political agenda. more and more people are being priced out of the housing market and face exclusion, with first-time buyers being particularly marginalised. that is why paragraph 6, hoping that national and local decision-makers will adopt measures to help young people get their first home, is such an important point. so, too, is the mention of rural housing. in scotland, many people born and brought up in idyllic small towns and villages are priced out of their communities due to lack of affordable social housing. housing today needs to meet the needs of tomorrow. it will not only have to be accessible, but also to be environmentally friendly. i thank the rapporteur and hope that we can see more discussion at a european level over how we can learn from one another how to make housing decent, affordable and accessible to all.
mr president, i wish to commend the rapporteur on his forward-looking approach to the future of european union funding. innovation is clearly one of the key ingredients of economic progress, and unless the european union embraces it fully we will find ourselves unable to compete at world level. in particular i welcome any initiative that recognises the role that small- and medium-sized enterprises have to play in economic progress. often we associate innovation with large multinational companies with enormous research facilities. however, the backbone of the european economy has always been our small, often family-orientated, businesses. i welcome proposals that enable the smes to work with large-scale industry and with universities. with the current programming period for the structural funds coinciding with the seventh framework programme, it is logical to look at means by which one can complement the other. as regards my own constituency of northern ireland, i have often pushed in the past for heavy emphasis on economic regeneration to be applied to our structural fund spending. i would very much welcome any opportunity to permit our now vibrant economy to tap into innovation-focused structural funding. queen’s university in northern ireland is recognised for its excellence in research and i am keen to ensure that such universities can take full advantage of eu funding, while also receiving proper national government support. while it is sensible to promote the development of regional, academic and scientific research centres, it is most important to note that we all have centres of excellence within our own countries which should be the first to receive support. building a reputation for research and development takes time and i would like to feel assured that what we are aiming at is supporting our well-established universities first and foremost. it is important that in an area such as this, where the opportunities for cross-border cooperation are endless, we do not make the mistake of being over-prescriptive. the worst thing brussels could do for innovation in the european union is to tell national and regional governments how, when and where they are to promote innovation. it is our function to provide the means, not the method.
mr president, i would like to move the following oral amendment on behalf of the ppe-de group. ‘stresses the importance of strengthening unity and solidarity among the eu member states in their relations with russia. welcomes, therefore, the common line taken by the eu in the negotiations with moscow on the lifting of russia’s ban on polish agricultural products;’.
mr president, this resolution has been tabled in the name of certain political groups, but the name of the ppe-de group does not appear. that might give the impression that we have somehow been excluded from the process, given that we spoke out against having a resolution in the first place as we will shortly be producing a report in committee. however, the fact is that we have been actively involved in the discussions with other groups. we share the general desire to see this legislation reviewed and modernised and have indeed contributed significantly to the text in its final form. i just wanted to record that although we still have certain reservations over some of the wording, i am pleased to confirm that ppe-de group policy will be to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. on behalf of the socialist group i very much welcome this amendment to our rules of procedure, which will enable parliament to deal much more efficiently and speedily with proposals to simplify european legislation, either through codification of existing legislation, without changes of substance, or else through recasting proposals where changes of substance are combined with the simplification of existing legislation. more and more, european legislative proposals that we consider in this parliament are about amending or updating existing european legislation rather than bringing forth new legislation on new subjects. yet few things contribute more to the opaqueness and complexity of european legislation than the habit of having sets of directives amending previous directives, without the texts as a whole ever being consolidated into a single document. the commission must speed up its program to codify existing community legislation, not simply as an exercise in reducing the number of pages of the acquis communitaire, but to provide greater transparency and ease of access to all. in amending its rules of procedure today, parliament is giving a powerful signal that it is ready to assist in this process and to do so with due speed and diligence.
in writing. i supported these amendments to bring in new rules on public passenger transport services by rail and by road, which seek to rebalance the award of contracts for these services between the public and private sectors. i particularly support the move to repeal old eu legislation and replace existing national rules on competition in the public transport sector with standard europe-wide rules.
in writing. i voted for the council's common position on a proposal to deregulate pack sizes for pre-packed products. once the legislation is implemented, it will be possible to sell many everyday consumer products in a wider range of sizes than at present. i believe that this is an advance for consumer interests.
in writing. i supported these amendments to bring in new rules on the manufacturing standards of road vehicles. these will raise environmental and safety standards as well as making it easier for producers to sell their vehicles europe-wide. in particular i am glad that the legislation will take more account of the needs of disabled car users.
in writing. i voted for this resolution which recognises the importance of russia for europe, especially in energy relations, but also highlights the need for democratic values and human rights. in particular i support the call for russia to 'fully respect its obligations under the vienna convention on diplomatic relations', guaranteeing the protection of embassies and diplomats.
in writing. the tension between russia and estonia requires a resolution. it is deeply concerning how quickly this difficulty over a local estonian decision could escalate to energy supplies being cut off by russia. our dependence on russia for our energy needs continue to worry those who have an interest in security of supply. 60% of russia's oil exports go to the eu, which amounts to 25% of our oil consumption. in addition, 50% of natural gas exports from russia accounts for 25% of the eu's total natural gas consumption. i hope that on 18 may when the eu-russia summit will take place, these issues will be highlighted and addressed.
in writing. i agree with the general thrust of the rapporteur's stance on this issue. it is imperative that peace is brought to the middle east, and the european union is well placed to influence that process.
in writing. i have abstained on this report. while i do not want the closure of existing nuclear plants, i am not in favour of their massive expansion, with all the problems that poses for health and the environment. it may be that the emission of co2 and other greenhouse gases is limited but the hazards posed by radioactive release were all too graphically demonstrated by chernobyl and the nuclear disaster in the urals so graphically described by roy medvedev. i also object to the undemocratic nature of euratom decisions and the waste of resources in the boondoggle that is the iter project. i supported its location in japan rather than france as then the japanese would have wasted their money rather than the eu wasting ours!
in writing. british conservatives have abstained on the final vote on the andria report. we support many of the aims of this report and, in particular, we approve the sharing of best practice in construction and technology of housing as a way to encourage energy efficiency. however, we are insistent that housing and housing policy be subject to the principle of subsidiarity and that therefore such issues are, and must remain, an exclusive competence of the nation states.
in writing. this report addresses the key question of housing. while the eu's competencies in this sphere are not extensive, it should intervene wherever possible, such as through the erdf, to ensure that decent housing is provided.
in writing. the andria report is important to place the subject of housing on the european political agenda. with more and more people finding themselves excluded from the housing market, we must do all that we can to find solutions to the housing shortage. that is why learning from each other across the 27 member states, sharing best practice and finding common solutions can help us tackle the growing problem.
in writing. this report combines two key areas for eu action: regional policy and innovative capacity. i support the approach of the rapporteur.
in writing. innovation and future regional policy is vitally important to making the eu the most dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010. the point the rapporteur made, quoting professor hunt, the nobel prize winner, that of the 20 top universities only three are from the eu and those three are located in the uk illustrates the need for a more strategic approach to funding research in europe's universities. if we want innovation we need investment in europe's higher education institutions.
in writing. the need for action on better information and consultation for workers is urgently required. there is a need to review and to modernise current legislation as well as ensuring that member states are properly implementing current information and consultation rules. the additional point reminding the commission of the need for a coherent industrial policy and of the role social partners have to play should be noted.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, much as i hate to disagree with mrs frassoni, we deferred the aubert report at the last part-session and sent it back to the committee on agriculture and rural development. there seems to be little chance of achieving a legal base and for that reason all of the coordinators, bar the verts/ale group, agreed that this matter should go to the final vote during this part-session – that vote is due to take place tomorrow. i have to ask my colleagues and all the other groups who agreed through their coordinators in committee that we reject this proposal from the verts/ale group and that we have the final vote tomorrow.
mr president, 18 days ago a 3-year-old girl, madeleine mccann, of british parents, was abducted from her hotel in portugal. so far, despite extensive police searches, she has not been found. there has been extensive coverage of this in the united kingdom, portugal and spain, but i am not sure that there has been coverage in other member states. the suspicion is that she has been abducted and transported out of portugal. firstly, i hope i speak on behalf of this house in expressing our sympathy to the family, but i would also ask that all national authorities give publicity to this case. as we know, there is a serious danger of there being trafficking in minors and we would hope this is not the case in madeleine’s case, but we would urge all national authorities to be on the alert to see if we can possibly find this girl before anything serious happens to her.
mr president, on wednesday the british government will publish its energy green paper, which was leaked over the weekend in britain’s press – in particular the independent on sunday. if those reports are accurate, the nuclear industry will be raised from the dead in the name of environmental protection, but, more importantly for europe, there will be a commitment to the first big sustainable non-co2-emitting energy scheme in europe, namely the severn tidal barrage. this, at a cost of eur 15 to 20 billion, will produce up to 8% of britain’s energy needs, control the consequences of climate change in the estuary, provide much needed employment in the south-west and wales, bring new roads and railway crossing points and will be an enormous boost to the local economy’s water-based leisure activities. i hope we can welcome this on behalf of europe.
madam president, two completely new and unnecessary laws will soon have an impact on the british people. one is the requirement for a home information pack at a cost of at least gbp 600, without which homeowners will not be able to sell their properties. the other is the reduction of household refuse collections from once a week to once every two weeks. both these pieces of legislation are a direct result of eu directives. the directives are those on the energy performance of buildings and landfill waste. weekly household refuse collections were established by law in 1875 to stamp out diseases such as cholera and other epidemics which killed thousands of people. only the eu could take britain back to where it was prior to 1875, while requiring the british people to pay through the nose for the privilege. two more good reasons – if they were needed – why britain should leave the european union.
mr president, this report is seriously advocating that cross-border healthcare should become a reality under the services directive. it states that ‘member states should treat residents of another member state on an equal basis with regard to access to health services, regardless of whether they are private or public patients’. it also states that there should be ‘a codification of existing case law on the reimbursement of cross-border healthcare’. let us be clear exactly what these two statements mean as far as britain is concerned. the first is saying that a visitor or migrant from another eu country, who has not paid a bean towards the cost of the national health service, should be entitled to the same access to healthcare as a british resident who has been paying tax and national insurance all his or her working life, and means a delay in their treatment. the second statement opens the door for the eu to override national governments and lay down the law on how cross-border healthcare is reimbursed, leading inevitably to how healthcare as a whole is funded and managed. a single healthcare system run by the eu is a nightmare too horrible to contemplate; it should never be unleashed on an unsuspecting world.
mr president, health services will remain the province of member states and healthcare organisations will be the responsibility of member state governments. but that does not stop our citizens from travelling, from falling ill while they are travelling, from moving permanently to other countries and wanting access to healthcare – perhaps something that mr titford might care to reflect on in a quieter moment. i want to thank mrs vergnaud for this report. it is an extremely comprehensive one. it has many valuable contributions to the work that you, commissioner, set out and it is extremely timely. it is quite clear that health services are not going to be reintroduced into the services directive. we will certainly support the compromise proposal that mr manders will table tomorrow making that clear. that should not distract us from looking at some of the really important issues that are picked up in this proposal, because more and more people are going to be challenging the boundaries of the system. one of the landmark court of justice judgments was because of a british patient who travelled to another country to have a hip replacement operation on the grounds that her own health service – sadly in my own country – could not provide that treatment within anything like an acceptable time. the court found in her favour and that is something that the commissioner will reflect on. i do not object to the basis of that judgment because it seems to me that this is a right that people should have across the european union. but there are going to be very difficult issues that we are just starting to face. the innovatory treatments that one of the previous speakers mentioned, particularly in the areas of cancer, are already presenting really difficult issues to public health services. expensive, life-prolonging tailored treatments: what happens if they are available in another country but not your own and you travel to that country and ask for that sort of treatment to prolong your life? this is an important report. it is an issue that we are going to be increasingly confronted with. i commend it to you and i hope the commissioner will come up with an imaginative response.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, on behalf of my colleague, mrs doyle, the shadow rapporteur, let me thank our colleague, mr adamou, for his report. it is a positive report and it pushes all the right buttons: it talks about the natura 2000 and the birds and habitats directives; it talks about the effective implementation of reach and water and pesticides legislation; it expresses the concern we all share over the financial constraints on natura 2000 and other biodiversity actions. i also welcome what commissioner borg has said along these lines, and i particularly echo what has been said about the inaction of member state governments in the european union. our target was 2010 – not ‘2010 and beyond’ – but we are nowhere near reaching our target of halting biodiversity loss by that year, which is not so far away. on the way here, i read an article in the times, which again referred to the loss of habitat, the use of pesticides and the introduction of alien species that we have heard so much about. this article was about birds – thousands of bird species under threat. overall, 2 033 species are in danger; 86 % of the most threatened species are threatened because of the loss or deterioration of habitat due to factors such as dams, fishing, cattle numbers, etc. alongside this is the issue of alien species, and mrs doyle, if she were here, would refer to the grey squirrel and the damage it has done to the red squirrels native to our continent, particularly in britain but now in italy and spreading north through france and spain. we see the damage of the harlequin ladybird. we see the chinese mitten crabs. they are there, they are damaging and they are dangerous not only to human health but also to the health of our environment and our natural native species.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to start by saying a few words in praise of the progress we have made in the european union. we have banned some products, pesticides and practices; we have cleaned up our rivers and have protected some significant areas from development and the results are there to be seen. in britain, for example, red kites and raptors are in greater numbers in our skies, otters are returning to our rivers, but as is so often the case it is one step forward and then one or two or three steps backwards, with habitat destruction continuing, with invasive alien species causing havoc, and all too often our own direct activities killing. sometimes we are wholly at fault, the classic example of the way in which we are denuding our seas out of sight all too often out of mind, and our policies there, as commissioner borg knows better than anyone, are simply unsustainable and ludicrous. sometimes the damage is inadvertent. changing farming practices, for example, are not intended to wipe out bird species, but that is one of the effects in some instances and we wait with interest to see whether the results in the changes to the common agricultural policy produce positive results. sometimes we do not know who or what is at fault, but as politicians we still avoid adopting the precautionary principle. how else do you explain the mad decision of those member states who voted to reject the commission’s plans for the recovery of eel stocks, numbers of which have fallen catastrophically? short-term considerations like these mean that species are now heading too often towards extinction. setting a target for halting the loss of biodiversity is easy – especially when it is nine years off – it is the most easy thing in the world to find a target a long, long time off. but now that deadline is fast approaching and some hard decisions have to be taken if the target is to be reached. more than half way through their term, i think some commissioners can start to see the end of their own positions starting to loom. i hope they will use the remaining time well. decisions based on short-term political expediency will be quickly forgotten, but firm steps to reverse negative trends and protect species will earn them the respect of history.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, may i also express my congratulations to mrs laperrouze. we started off on a very good footing and we worked well together throughout. we started off by putting the safety of the public and the environment first. i think that was particularly important. the proposed directive sets limits on concentration in surface water of a number of substances including some pesticides, heavy metals and other dangerous chemicals and substances already mentioned by the rapporteur. these chemicals pose particular risks to both human health and animal and plant life – particularly aquatic life – and therefore this dovetails well as the final piece of the jigsaw in the water framework directive. it is important that pollution is controlled and that there is a coherence with the water framework directive. the commission must establish common methodologies for guaranteeing an adequate level of protection while avoiding distortion of competition. the amendments proposed for plenary for the eqs vote are designed to make the text less confusing, more feasible and easier to implement. the suggestion of two new recitals aims to ensure coherence with the water framework directive requirements on priority substances. there is currently no consensus on how to take measures, again mentioned by mrs laperrouze on the sediment and biota, and until we get the scientific data set on these levels, we need to look very closely at it. instead of setting levels now for member states, we should monitor the concentrations of substances in the sediment and biota with a view to reaching a framework standard. the purpose of this proposal is to protect the environment and human health. this is a very important aim but it is important that all elements of the water framework directive are workable and realistic. part of this is keeping the cost to a reasonable level and to bear in mind that the targets cannot be met without necessary technical ability. i thank the rapporteur once again.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, the alde group welcomes the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland. we take this opportunity to repeat our thanks to the home rule government for the very fruitful discussions on this and other issues that a delegation from the group had with them when it visited greenland last autumn. we are clear that the agreement is a matter of mutual benefit. however, we have serious concerns about one aspect of the regulation, namely article 3(2). this would allow the commission to reallocate licences between member states in cases where fishing opportunities have not been fully taken up. we understand the commission’s wish to ensure full value for sums expended by the community, but we do not believe that the same procedure can be used in the case of agreements where access to resources is based on vessels and tonnage. the greenland agreement is based on the purchase of quota. it also differs from other agreements in allowing for quota exchanges with norway, iceland and the faeroes for which there is no monetary compensation. in addition, the parent regulation for the setting of quota entitlements allows only for member states to exchange quota with other parties. article 3(2) is therefore of dubious legality. it also undermines the principle of relative stability. amendment 7 offers an alternative mechanism to achieve the optimal use of fishing opportunities and one that does not give rise to such problems. we hope that the commission will accept that the grounds for concern are justified and that parliament will give its support to the amendment.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur. in article 3(2) of the proposal the commission has suggested that, should quotas be under-utilised, the commission could reallocate member states’ licences to other member states. this appears to be legally questionable, a point underlined by the council’s legal service in a recent working group. as uptake is already high, it is also unnecessary and would undermine the principle of relative stability and remove the opportunity for member states to swap quota with other member states rather than seeing the commission reallocate it. i want to keep the current mechanism, which brought about much higher rates of utilisation and preserved the respective rights and responsibilities of each party. the concept of relative stability is vital to the scottish fleet and gives our fishermen the historic rights that they have enjoyed for centuries. undermining this amendment puts all of this at risk and ignores the basic differences between southern fisheries agreements, where fishing licences are at stake, and northern agreements, where quota is at stake. i urge colleagues to support amendment 7, which upholds the principle of relative stability and historic fishing rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr caspary, on such a wide-ranging report – not surprising given the title of global europe – and i welcome its general tone. however, i have a few concerns and worries about a few possible contradictions. i read a report calling for all so-called ‘public’ services to be kept out of trade negotiations, including media services. but surely focusing on media services goes against the grain of the lisbon agenda, which aims to make the eu a leading digital economy? however, even if we leave media services aside, are we really going to ignore citizens in poorer countries who have to put up with poor or non-existent health, education, water and transport services run by poorly-performing state monopolies or companies often linked to corrupt or inefficient politicians? i urge my fellow members to listen to the citizens and not the politicians of these countries. i also see paragraph 80 supporting the view that trade defence instruments need not be reviewed, but i ask that the commission no longer succumb to the protectionist sentiments of uncompetitive companies. for example, tdis have made shoes more expensive for poor families, especially those with children, and penalise those eu companies that have grasped the opportunity provided by globalisation and global supply chains, creating high-value research, design and marketing jobs in the eu while outsourcing low-value jobs to asia. in truth, tdis mean that the commission listens more to uncompetitive european companies than it does to consumers, retailers and global eu suppliers and i do not believe that they will save one european manufacturing job in the long run. however, i do not wish to dwell only on my concerns. the report rightly confirms that the benefits of liberalisation outweigh any disruptive impact and that those countries that lift tariffs and non-tariff barriers and open up their markets benefit most. it also highlights the problem that the new french president will have to grapple with, in that protectionism leads to unemployment. for these reasons, i commend the report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i believe in free trade. it has benefited my country and is an important tool in helping the world’s poorest nations escape from poverty. however, the epas do more harm than good to the cause of free trade because of the hypocrisy of the european union. on the face of it, opening up our markets to imports from these countries sounds very good as it will help boost their economies, but, as always, there is a flip side to the coin. the developing countries have to open up their markets to goods from europe, to drop their import tariffs – according to the eu’s timescale by the end of the year – and, if they will not, up will go european trade barriers and down will come the amount of european aid. you cannot run before you can walk. as the rapporteur notes, the facilities are not yet in place in many acp countries for revenue collection to replace tariffs as a principal source of government funding. in trying to force the pace, i believe we are doing more harm than good to the cause of global free trade. furthermore, who do we think we are to be bullying these nations into scrapping tariffs? after all, only last year the commission brought in tariffs on shoes from china. but that was not free trade, or fair for that matter. we were told that they were dumping subsidised products on us. but what are we doing with our surplus agricultural products, subsidised by the cap? exactly the same thing: we are dumping them on poor countries and, in the process, dragging their farmers into poverty. the rapporteur says that epas are going to be concluded between the eu and many acp countries. this may well be true, but only because the eu holds the whip hand. ‘partnership’ it may be called, but it is a most unequal partnership. it suits big business but it does not suit the developing countries. the health and environment standards in europe are so high that the potential for many acp countries to export their agricultural produce will be very limited. what is more, the commission’s own impact assessment suggests that signing these deals could well precipitate the collapse of manufacturing in west africa. as a citizen of a country that has historically espoused and promoted genuine free trade, i do not want to be complicit in this. it only adds to my determination that my country will negotiate its own trading arrangements and leave this appalling european union, which, for all its pious talk of relieving poverty and encouraging development, has actually been directly responsible for causing poverty on a massive scale throughout the developing countries of the world.
madam president, there are some good things in this report – the importance of the transatlantic relationship, the progressive reduction of tariffs on transatlantic trade, the importance of trade liberalisation and the fact that protectionism leads to unemployment – and yet the report is practically schizophrenic on customs duties. on the one hand it commends what it calls ‘the success of the eu’s customs union’, despite europe’s long-term economic decline compared to asia and the us, and on the other hand it calls for the progressive reduction of tariffs. we must make up our minds. trade barriers are either good or bad – they cannot be both at the same time. the fact is that customs unions are a 19th-century bismarckian concept and they have no place in the 21st century. it is time to abandon the eu’s common external tariff and to create a european free-trade area. the report also commends the european social model and the updated lisbon agenda, yet we all know that the lisbon agenda is a dead letter. we talk about it but fail to put it into action, while eu competitiveness slips ever further behind our competitors. i well remember our british prime minister, tony blair, in this very chamber, asking the question: what sort of social model is it that leaves 20 million unemployed across europe? answer: the european social model. i also remember a visit to singapore when the then prime minister, mr goh chok tong, was asked by our colleague mr corbett why a prosperous country like singapore had such poor social benefits and unemployment pay. mr goh chok tong replied: ‘we find that when we pay people to be unemployed we get a lot of unemployed people, so we don’t do that’. that is the wisdom of the orient, and we would do well to bear it in mind. there is only one way forward for a competitive europe: we need konrad adenauer’s ‘bonfire of the regulations’. we need major reductions in taxes and in social and employment costs. then, perhaps, we can start to compete in the world.
mr president, i should like to express my appreciation for all the work that mr caspary has put into this report. as commissioner mandelson rightly said, our priority this year is to conclude the multilateral doha development round. alongside this, there are complementary negotiations for bilateral free trade agreements with south korea, asean and india. mr caspary’s report lays down a template within which we must try to operate in these negotiations, not because of mr caspary but because of our committee. the report however contains its contradictions, i think, as mr helmer said, it is positively schizophrenic. some members of my group complain that the report is not development-friendly. i am not sure it was intended to be as our imminent negotiations are with countries like singapore and south korea, thailand and india, countries not really in anyone’s less-developed countries category any more. within asean, laos and cambodia are covered by the eu’s ‘anything but arms’ policy and therefore have a degree of protection. i welcome paragraph 30 of the report, which takes into account the interests of the smallest and weakest countries. i certainly welcome paragraph 32 that demands that ilo standards on decent work be included in future ftas. i have some sympathy with mr kamall’s points with regard to audiovisual services, though i have to say that the privatisation of health, education, drinking water and energy rarely helps the poor in developing countries; rather it helps the minority rich population. i welcome paragraph 33, which makes it easier to suspend free trade agreements when they are not fulfilled, particularly with respect to social clauses. yet for some in the pse group, it is paragraph 29 which is the killer paragraph. it demands far-reaching liberalisation of services. my group met yesterday and narrowly decided that it could not support the report if this and similar paragraphs were included.
rapporteur. – mr president, before turning to the substance of this report, i should like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in the preparation of the report and in particular to thank the commission’s trade dg and development dg, which, i am pleased to say, have been very keen to engage with parliament on this particular issue. finally, i should like to thank pelayo castro zuzuarregui, the parliament official i worked with on this report. he is leaving us for a year – we hope it is only for a year! – to work for the spanish prime minister. i have worked with him on this report and a number of other reports; i have found it intellectually stimulating to be in his company and i wish him well. on the substance, aid for trade is a vital tool for linking developing countries to the global economy. however, i want to stress at the outset that it is not a substitute for the doha development round, but a complement to it. it is clear that liberalising markets is not sufficient in itself to link developing countries into the global economy. you just have to look at the experience of the last 40 years: ldcs have seen their share of world trade almost halved from 1.9% to 1%, and this is despite tariff reductions following the uruguay round and other tariff reductions and recent efforts such as the european everything but arms scheme, which gives duty-free and quota-free access to developing countries. therefore, liberalisation, which i would argue is important, clearly of itself has not been enough to engage the developing countries fully in the global economy. i also do not argue – and i want to make this clear – that aid for trade is of itself a panacea. however, it is quite clear that there is now a growing consensus on the benefits that aid for trade might bring. the wto ministerial meeting in hong kong in december 2005 set out an ambitious work programme for aid for trade and called for more assistance to help developing countries into the global economy. this followed mr barroso’s commitment at the g8 summit in gleneagles of eur 1 billion of european union money and eur 1 billion of member states’ money to assist in the aid for trade budget line. while this is all most welcome and sounded quite dramatic at the time of the announcement, we have to realise that the increases are quite modest in substance: the european union’s contribution will increase from a base of around eur 850 million at the moment to eur 1 billion, while the member states – if they deliver – will go from eur 300 million to a eur 1 billion. last october the general affairs council called for a trade strategy to map out how we fulfil these pledges. my report indicates some of the key points i hope we will see in that strategy. firstly, in relation to the scope of aid for trade, i want the measurement of the barroso billion to be against the existing base, which has two categories: one being trade policy and regulation, the other trade development. however, i welcome the fact that the wto task force has added three further categories: trade-related adjustment, trade-related infrastructure and productive capacity. these are vital aspects of the aid for trade agenda and i hope additional resources can be found to assist developing countries to deal with such matters as the phasing-out of preferences, reductions in government revenue as a result of tariffs being lowered, or help in adjusting to new competitive pressures due to regionalisation, such as epas. my report argues that aid for trade should be demand-led and country-owned. in this context, the wto’s enhanced integrated framework should become the key diagnostic tool for developing countries, assisting them to identify where aid for trade can bring maximum benefits. within developing countries we must also ensure that the private sector and civil society are engaged with the process. while aid for trade undoubtedly represents a different approach to general development aid, it should, in my opinion, be based on the same fundamental principles of poverty reduction and sustainable development, and our main point of reference should continue to be the millennium development goals. i am pleased that much of what we called for in this report was reflected in the commission’s communication published in april, and, perhaps naively, i like to believe that was part of the intense interaction between the commission’s dgs and the european parliament. i hope that, when the final joint eu trade strategy is adopted over the summer, it will also be reflected in that strategy document. i have called in my report today for biannual reporting back to parliament so that we can check that the member states and the commission have delivered on both the quality and quantity of the aid that they are promising. all institutions so far have shown a willingness to deliver collectively on what i believe is an important strategy that can make an important, if modest, contribution to linking the poorest countries of the world into the global trading system.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the way he has dealt with this report. as ever, mr martin has been open and willing to engage in compromise with colleagues, producing a report which demonstrates a real consensus in the committee on international trade. that said, having asked the shadow rapporteurs not to bring forward amendments at the plenary stage in order to preserve the spirit of that consensus, it would have been respectful had the pse group kept to that agreement. nevertheless, i think we have done enough to ensure that the consensus will hold through the plenary. i was unsurprised by the depth of common ground between us on the crucial issue of the eu’s aid for trade. the g8 summit in gleneagles where the commission and eu governments both pledged eur 1 billion in aid to the world’s poorest people was preceded by a hugely popular campaign. through the make poverty history marches, the live aid concerts and other efforts, millions of people have made their voices heard. they are angry, and right to be, about unfair trade rules and highly protected markets that work against those living in poverty and they are passionate about the need for change. if we are to build on the phenomenal mobilisation of public opinion, the pressure must continue at every level, domestic and international. the key question is whether there is the political will to drive that change. aid for trade must ensure that the poorest nations have the capacity to benefit from increased trade liberalisation, efficient customs agencies, better infrastructure, tax regimes which do not rely on import and export duties and anti-corruption measures to ensure that the money gets to the people who have earned it. ultimately we will be judged not by how much is promised but by how much is delivered. pledges on aid are always more easily made than kept. we are all too familiar with the double counting and relabelling tricks that recycle all pledges as new money. the eu’s aid for trade package has a unique role to play to ensure sustainable development, growth and prosperity in the developing world. as such it must be new money over and above existing commitments and trends and it must not come at the cost of monies already earmarked for other crucial development projects such as health and education. whilst aid for trade is a long-term driver of development, meeting short-term targets, such as the millennium development goals, must remain central to the eu’s international development policy. there too we must do better: some usd 50 billion more a year rather than the current commitment over a five-year period. if sustained political will is required to deliver aid for trade, then political courage is needed to ensure we deliver the mdgs in sub-saharan africa. aid works best when it is delivering a common set of objectives agreed between donor and recipient. we have to concentrate on finding solutions which best fit a country’s needs. that means responding to the demands of civil society and the private sector. as a parliament, we have already thrown our weight behind the fair trade movement. if we are to help reduce the poverty in which they live, we need mechanisms to ensure the aid reaches the people who need it most. this report provides the commission with some clear and reasonable guidelines to that end. it is up to you, commissioner, to deliver on them.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a particularly important report. the commission, including the commissioner himself, and i have worked very closely on it. this report highlights the complexity of establishing a forward programme for trade relations between the eu and the acp, two very different and largely unequal groups which share a common goal to strengthen trade as a means of real development. idealistic as this may sound, i have received a great deal of support from both the commission and the representatives of the acp regions and, despite the many concerns expressed by ngos and political groups, they and i, and i am sure the commission, remain optimistic. epas have moved very slowly because of the conflicting ideas on a number of issues including regional integration, identification of sensitive products and preparing concrete and detailed proposals for epa-related support. the acp has been asked to do a great deal and too often the institutional infrastructure and lack of capacity has raised questions as to whether these proposals will contribute to their development in a manner that they want. the january 2008 deadline is obviously what makes this year so crucial for epas. time is running out. negotiators must press on to reach a mutually beneficial settlement on epas that will help acp countries develop and support international trade relations. in the event that some regions need more time, i believe it is incumbent on both parties to seek to ensure that acp exports to the eu should not be harmed. this should be the objective, not discussing the feasibility of another wto waiver, although i appreciate that the commission is continuing to focus on reaching the deadlines. however, i am anxious to know what provisions have been outlined for these regions which find themselves without an agreement. my report makes a number of recommendations: simplified, liberalised and more flexible rules of origin, full duty-free, quota-free market access for the acp, workable safeguards, dispute settlement and monitoring mechanisms with transparent provisions and a real power to act in the event of changes caused by epas having a harmful effect on sectors of acp economies. these are the positive aspects and need to be correctly framed in negotiations. we need to know how these mechanisms will work and to build trust and ensure that europe will be as keen to help implement these mechanisms as the acp countries. we have recognised that, if epas are to be successfully concluded, there must be more acp engagement than has been demonstrated throughout these negotiations. only a true partnership will ensure these agreements are beneficial to all parties. the official epa review due to be completed last december failed to provide a full and comprehensive report of the status of negotiations. this is far from encouraging and i am curious as to what precedence this sets in the actual signing of the agreements. it is clear that additional resources will be needed to cope with the effects of change ushered in by epas. the scaling-up of trade facilitation, technical assistance and support to help acp producers meet eu standards must be sufficiently extensive to offset losses from tariff revenues and help acp countries take advantage of market access. in the first instance this requires greater efforts to ensure that funds already promised are spent in a timely and effective manner. the eu must be accountable for all of its development assistance and, together with the acp, must set clear goals that boost acp competitiveness and growth. epas have an essential role to play as instruments for development and, appropriately designed, they represent an opportunity to revitalise acp-eu trading relations, promote economic diversification and regional integration, and reduce poverty in acp countries. i mentioned in my speech that the eu must be accountable. this is taxpayers’ money, and democratic accountability is of concern to all of us and is essential. we have failed in many respects to help acp countries; now i believe we have a real chance to do something that will really make a mark, provided we have the goodwill of all of them. unfortunately i have to leave now to go back for personal reasons. i have worked very closely with the commission and the commissioner. i think we have had a very good understanding and i would like to take this opportunity to thank them. i hope that we can continue to work in that manner.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for the approach he has taken. mr sturdy’s approach in taking the barbados resolution of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly as a starting point ensured that this report moved forward from a place of compromise. as a whole, my group was satisfied with the tone and balance of the point, which is why we have not tabled any amendments. however, we remain concerned about a key contradiction within the report and within the conduct of the negotiations themselves: on the one hand, we urge negotiators to intensify efforts to complete the negotiations before the end of this year; yet, on the other hand, we call on the commission not to exert undue pressure on the acp countries. both are accurate statements, but surely there can be nothing more pressing than a ticking clock with no acceptable deal on the table and no apparently suitable alternatives coming forward. the commissioner is familiar with the difficulties that deadlines present. we are not only dealing with the epas negotiations, but in the background we have timetables for regional integration and, of course, the troubled doha round. the fact that we do not have a wto agreement has made these negotiations even harder, as the acp cannot yet predict what they will get – if anything – out of doha. through all this, however, runs the thread of development. to make increased liberalisation a driver of poverty reduction and economic growth, the european union must integrate its trade and development policies, and nowhere is that more important than with the acp and epas. the eu is being accused of putting the year deadline before development. to counter such accusations i urge the commissioner to demonstrate the commission’s flexibility and commitment to the acp’s concerns by undertaking a genuine exploration of development-oriented alternatives to the epas and, at the very least, if we do not have a workable agreement by the deadline, according to cotonou we must provide at least equivalent market access to the acp on 1 january 2008. the european union has the resources to undertake such an exercise. meanwhile the acp is struggling on a financial and technical basis. we have already spent a great deal of time discussing the eu’s aid for trade this morning and the two rapporteurs worked closely to ensure that these two reports went hand in hand. the eu’s aid for trade programme is crucial to enabling the least-developed countries in the acp to maximise on the benefits of increased liberalisation, and the council has already confirmed that a substantial share of the increased trade-related assistance will be devoted to the acp countries. the acp will continue to require substantial development assistance to address their supply-side constraints to trade beyond the next edf. i would like to see the commission and the member states work towards significantly increasing the amount of aid for trade available as demand from acp states increases through implementation of the epas. we must, however, acknowledge the moral difficulties of a major donor sitting across the negotiating table from a key recipient of aid for trade. the commission must not manipulate the prospect of aid by linking future development assistance to concessions made by the acp in epas. aid, by its very definition, can be used as a carrot, but it must under no circumstances be used as a stick if the epas are not concluded before the end of the 2007 deadline. aid for trade works best when it is delivering a common set of objectives between donor and recipient. with the committee on international trade and parliament’s delegation to the joint parliamentary assembly, the commissioner has a breadth and depth of parliamentarians with the expertise and willingness to engage with him on epas. as the clock keeps ticking, i urge the commissioner to work with them to find a development-oriented solution to epas which ultimately fits in with the needs of the acp.
mr president, i would like to join with those who have congratulated robert sturdy on what i think is a good report. the report correctly stresses that these are negotiations that are being conducted between unequal partners and it has been a theme of many of the other contributors this morning. i think the fact that the commission and the acp countries perceive the negotiations from a different standpoint is at the heart of many of the problems. if we look at the end of the year deadline, the perception of the commission is that the deadline is an essential tool for meeting its wto obligations. from the viewpoint of many of the acp countries on the other hand, the deadline is being used to rush them into agreeing unsuitable agreements, and the commission, i think, has to do much more to reassure the acp countries that the deadline is not and will not be used to browbeat the acp countries into agreements that they cannot otherwise live with. on the situation with aid, the commission says, and commissioner mandelson repeated this morning, that the negotiations will not fail for lack of money. but it is unfair to expect acp countries to make long-term decisions on liberalisation and regional integration without having a long-term view of the amount of assistance that would be available to help them put together the regional regulatory frameworks to instigate new methods of collecting government revenues to make up for the loss of the tariff income or to construct a type of infrastructure which we know from our own experience in the eu is so important to developing our regional economy. when we move on to the issue of market access, i have heard the commissioner say in this chamber that the european union has no offensive trade objectives with acp countries. but again, when we hear from negotiators, their perception is that the commission is pushing them very hard to open up our services markets and to make other market-opening offers. i say all this in a genuine spirit of belief that the commission wants a pro-development package with the six regions. the commission believes it is acting in the interests of the acp countries, but it must understand that negotiations between unequal partners create suspicion in the weaker partner. when we talk about deadlines, they see threats, when we are vague on the aid package, they see linkage between the amount of market-opening they are prepared to offer and the size of their aid package. if we are to overcome these concerns, then we must bring more openness and transparency to the talks themselves and we must promise that once we conclude the talks, that there will be parliamentary oversight to the finally concluded agreements so that they can be reassured that parliamentarians will be involved in this process from their implementation.
mr president, following the progress of the epa negotiations has been like living in two parallel universes. on the one hand, there have been many statements from the acp side that the process lacks the development focus it is supposed to have. the acp countries insist that they are being put under pressure to negotiate on the commission’s terms and they are particularly concerned that the commission has failed to give time for proper impact assessments and has dismissed any assessments that were not in line with its own position. on the other hand, strangely, the commission has maintained throughout that no one is complaining or asking for alternatives to epas. however, the january 2007 review of epas by the united nations economic commission for africa was clear. this external and independent review concluded that there was a failure of the negotiations to have a development focus and an excessive focus on trade liberalisation alone. given this external un assessment, i do not see how the commission can keep on maintaining that the epa negotiations have a positive dynamic and that everything is rosy.
mr president, i trust that the commission will take note of the concerns that many– indeed, the vast majority of – members of parliament have raised this morning. the epa negotiations are clearly at a very critical stage, and this week european union and acp ministers meet in brussels to review progress, at a time when, as others have said, they are under intense pressure to conclude by the end of 2007. the reality is, of course, that even where technically they are well prepared, acp countries still face serious political issues which remain between acp member states, within governments in the acp, between governments and private sector, civil society and regional integration organisations. david martin raised some very important points about the level of suspicion and anxiety that exists in acp countries. in the last few weeks i have been in both west and east africa and, from the prime minister of senegal, to the president of ghana, to the tanzanian minister of trade, the message was exactly the same: there are too many unresolved issues. on aid for trade: is it new money? is it predictable? when is it going to be on the table? on levels of regional integration, in tanzania i learnt of the enormous problems there and of the new east africa configuration which they are planning for and have, i think, written to the commissioner about. then there are the singapore issues, which others have mentioned and which are currently causing enormous difficulties in the sadc negotiations. most acp member states have welcomed duty-free, quota-free access. however, it remains the case – and i am not sure that anyone has mentioned this – that a dozen or more eu member states are expressing concern and objections to the proposal, and some acp states are concerned about the impact on sugar, bananas and rice. only yesterday, barbados was saying that the region could benefit only if the eu ensured that they build the technical, productive and infrastructural capacity so that they can maximise the opportunities, particularly for sugar, between 2009 and 2015. there is this doomsday scenario that people talk about. that is why, if they cannot sign up by the end of this year, the acp should be provided with a high level of market access using gsp+. the assertion i hear that alternatives do not exist is simply not the case and neither is the claim that no acp region or country has asked for them. recent research by the odi, the un and others points to an enhanced gsp as a viable alternative to epas and would provide that essential breathing space for negotiations to continue. gsp+ would provide more generous access than gsp, which is clearly not an option. most acp countries could well meet the eligibility criteria and would be provided with a level of market access almost equivalent to cotonou for current exports, with very few exceptions.
rapporteur. – mr president, as rapporteur i can accept the oral amendment.
in writing. i supported these amendments to daphne iii, the eu’s specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women. i am pleased that the third phase of daphne (2007-2013) has an increased budget of eur 116.85 million. in addition, i am pleased that the bureaucracy will be reduced so that ngos have easier access to the programme.
in writing. i fully support the work of the rapporteur in combating violence against women. the daphne programme helps in tackling this issue across the eu and those who fail to support this report today should be condemned.
in writing. instead of some of the more far-reaching proposals suggested to us, the committee on constitutional affairs proposed a modest revision of rule 47 (which would be renamed ‘procedure with associated committees’). this more modest change would require the chairmen and rapporteurs of the committees concerned to meet and jointly identify areas of the text falling within their executive or joint competences. the chair of the committee responsible would have to take account of any such agreement when ruling on the final responsibility for different parts of the text. the rule would also allow the parties to agree, if they so wish, on more precise arrangements for their cooperation, which opens the door to possibilities such as a joint working group. the rule change also would guarantee that associated committees are represented in any parliament delegation in a conciliation procedure.
in writing. water quality is essential to our environment and i am pleased to see that through european action we have witnessed improvements. i believe that the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to look at the effectiveness of all community legislative acts with a direct or indirect impact on water quality is a step in the right direction.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of mrs aubert’s report on organic production and labelling of organic products. i believe that consumers have the right to clear identification of products they intend to purchase. nevertheless, regulations on labelling have to reflect day-to-day realities. we cannot specify requirements that lie beyond our ability to operate in a meaningful way reflecting the best practical means available at the time. to do otherwise is to collude in limiting the availability of products many consumers might choose to purchase.
in writing. i supported the resolution on organic food products which builds on the report in march to introduce stricter rules governing organic food products. i believe that this can increase consumer protection.
in writing. mr president, i am delighted today to support my group colleague in her report’s assertion that organic production and labelling represent a crucial area of eu production in need of protection. as the market for organic food grows it is vital that consumers feel safe in the definition of what is and what is not organic. we in scotland have a thriving organic sector and i want to see that flourish. a stable labelling and definitions framework will assist that.
in writing. as amendment 7 was not carried, the eplp was left with no option but to vote against the report. this report could jeopardise the historical fishing rights of the scottish fleet and sets a dangerous precedent for future fishing agreements.
in writing. mr president, i am pleased that this important report gained the majority it did, because the gradual loss of biodiversity should concern us all. the implications of the moves to biofuels should in particular be kept to the forefront of our attention. while nobody would deny that we need to move away from fossil fuels, the knock-on effects of major shifts in production to monocultivation of (often gm) biofuels could have long-term effects that are even more detrimental, and this report does well to keep this issue on our agenda.
in writing. the fact that 52% of freshwater fish species are threatened with extinction whilst cod and other fish stocks are at worryingly low levels should be a wake-up call for action. i agree with the rapporteur that biodiversity loss is as important as climate change and that member states must show greater political will to prevent the loss of biodiversity. i am also pleased to see that the amendment condemning deep-sea bottom-trawling and other unsustainable fishing practices was carried.
in writing. while this report had some negative elements, such as its call for a delay of the trade defence instrument review and the unprecise nature of the language on liberalisation (which has opened up the possibility that certain aspects of liberalisation may be negotiated upon which were controversial at the wto level), i felt on balance it was a report to be supported. the introduction at committee stage of paragraphs on the need for core labour and environmental standards to be integrated into the eu’s trade deals, and of additional references to development considerations, made the report more rounded. while it could have gone further in its considerations of development issues, it is my view that during the current generation of bilateral trade deals the targeted countries (south korea, india and asean – given that in asean there will be special and differential treatment to take account of developing countries) will be well placed to defend their interests during negotiations.
in writing. i support the call to reject this proposal, thus making the review unnecessary.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of my group i should like to welcome mr prodi back to parliament. prime minister, 50 years after the treaty of rome was signed, you have returned italy to its rightful place at the heart of europe, and at the heart of the european project. with president napolitano you have turned the osservato speciale into a partner speciale. your cabinet, with names like bonino, amato and padoa-schioppa, fills my colleagues and me with confidence. we hear some criticisms of your first year in government, but we recall the faint hearts who made similarly dismissive remarks about your first year at the commission. they were proven wrong. enlargement, the euro: these are the jewels in europe’s crown, so we will judge a government on its results, not on first appearances. it was italy which, while others hesitated, led the european union force into lebanon, and italy which pressed for a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty. you showed the world that europe can have the vision and the capacity to act in unison for the good of all. we must seize that vision, for europe’s future strength lies not in insulating itself against injustices, but in confronting the forces of pain and misery and destruction in the world beyond our borders. on our own continent we have healed the hurts of nations. our interest now, indeed perhaps our survival, depends on exporting in the next 50 years the domestic achievements of the last. global challenges like climate change, population growth and nuclear proliferation highlight what you have called ‘the inadequacy of unilateralism’. the world needs global mechanisms to create consensus on these matters. and the model? none is better than our community method, tried and tested over 50 years. and yet, even as europe comes of age on the international stage, some are seeking to divide us from within. what should we say to the eurosceptics who say that the european union is no longer fit for service, or that the european dream is menaced by globalisation, or that integration threatens national identity? they listen, but they do not hear. mr prodi, you wisely followed the advice of cavour, who told us that he had discovered how to deceive diplomats. he said, ‘i tell them the truth, and they never believe me’. as you told us in berlin, marking europe’s 50th birthday:"per creare abbiamo bisogno di buon senso, di pazienza, di fede, ma anche di un pizzico di follia." a grain of folly, of self-belief, as well as grit and determination are indeed needed to face the future. for now is not the time for apathy or egocentrism. our leaders must be bold: more europe, not less, is the key to competitiveness; more europe, not less, is the key to security; more europe, not less europe, is the key to a just world. that is why it is vital to reach an institutional settlement at next month’s intergovernmental conference. only stronger institutions can build a stronger europe. mr prodi, it was leonardo da vinci, your compatriot, who taught us:"non si volta chi a stella è fisso". thank you for holding true to your vision. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, once again back in this chamber and in his usual rousing style, mr prodi has confirmed his belief in a united states of europe and the fact that we should speak with one voice on the world stage. mr prodi, whilst i may disagree with those views, i have at least to compliment your honesty in saying things in the way that you do. i am surprised you had to time to come, given that in italy you have had 38 prime ministers in the last 60 years and it looks as though you may well be on the verge of the 39th. we are indeed very privileged that you have come along today. when you tell us that security is so important – this ‘drive towards closer cooperation’ as you call it – particularly on the day when the british police announced that charges are to be laid in the case of the former kgb agent alexander litvinenko, who was recently murdered in london, i wonder whether we really want your style of justice, given that mario scaramella, who tried to warn mr litvinenko of what was going to happen to him, has now languished in an italian jail for six months. the charges against him keep changing and he has not actually faced a court. if you are suggesting we give up common law and habeas corpus for that sort of european system, my answer to you is no, thank you very much indeed. let us have a real debate, mr president. mr schulz: 16 countries have approved the european constitution, not 18, so please can we have some truth, some honesty and some openness and please can we not push on and totally ignore the french and dutch referendum results. mr prodi did not even refer to that in his speech. people have said no. tens of millions of europeans are saying ‘give us, the people, a say in our future’. stop behaving like a bulldozer, stop sweeping aside public opinion. by all means have your treaty, but let the people decide on their future. do not impose it upon them.
mr president, prime minister, today we are once again debating constitutions and institutions when the citizens of europe are really more interested in jobs, prosperity, the environment and global poverty. it is a myth that the european union is in a crisis or paralysed and incapable of taking decisions, and this is the pretext that some governments are using to demand that the constitution should be back on the table. i know that you, prime minister, believe this as well. it is not a constitutional crisis. even the british government has said that the eu is able to take decisions based on current treaties, and the period of reflection following the french and dutch ‘no’ votes should, in my view, have been used to take a long, hard look at the reasons for the rejection of the constitution. instead, the discussions now seem solely focused on what parts of it can be kept at all costs. as someone who believes in my nation’s membership of the european union and the potential for good that europe possesses, i am saddened by this debate. i have always believed there was a need to simplify and make more transparent the decision-making processes and institutions of europe, as the laeken declaration envisaged. the enlargement of the eu may indeed require some amendments to existing treaties or new treaties from time to time, but i cannot accept that this constitution is required, nor is it desirable at this moment. there is no doubt that the british people will demand a referendum on any new treaty that might propose additional powers for the eu, and my party would support that. we will watch with great interest the actions of the british government in the weeks to come. mr blair will attend the brussels summit on the very eve of his retirement and he must not commit his successor in his absence. gordon brown should insist that he attend the summit alongside tony blair and take full responsibility for whatever his government signs up to. i hope that this kind of realism will guide mr brown’s actions in the difficult times that lie immediately ahead.
in writing. – as elected politicians, we must listen to the people – all the people. some, such as mr farage, want to listen only to some of the people, those who voted ‘no’ in france and the netherlands. others want to listen only to those who said ‘yes’ in the 18 countries which have ratified the constitutional treaty. fortunately, a majority in this house and of the governments of the member states want to listen to all, to bridge the divergence of views and find a solution capable of being ratified by all 27 member states. of course, the european parliament, which approved the constitutional treaty by a large majority, wants to salvage as many as possible of the reforms contained in the constitutional treaty. it is perfectly natural that parliament should want to sacrifice as little of the treaty as possible, but it must also be as much as is necessary to secure agreement by every country.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the president-in-office said that the new unity government in palestine had not quite passed the litmus test. well, the israelis have not quite stopped building their security wall, stealing palestinian land and water. the israelis have not quite released the 10 000 prisoners, many of them held without charge or trial. the israelis have not quite stopped holding checkpoints – 589 according to the commission’s latest figures – which impose an economic embargo upon the palestinians. the israelis have not quite paid back the money – which may amount to about one thousand million euros now – that they have withheld from the palestinians’ own revenue over the past year. they have not quite stopped the partition and separation by way of identity cards, which my own party leader, paddy ashdown – our former representative in bosnia-herzegovina – described just last saturday as racism dressed up as administration. i say these things to the president-in-office because we are seen as a european union that practises double standards: we are seen to ignore every israeli illegality, but to expect palestinians to behave like saints. when the commissioner says that we are using all the instruments at our disposal to get the israelis to observe international agreements and obey the law, i do not think that can possibly be the case. there are many tools at our disposal that we are not even trying to exercise. therefore, what does the palestinian unity government have to do now? just two weeks ago our delegation heard prime minister haniyeh not only convince us in a way that satisfied us all that the unity government was determined to meet the quartet’s three principles, and believed it was doing so, but also that it would meet with members of the quartet without reservation or precondition at any time to try to sort out these differences. i urge the president-in-office to take up that offer. note also the comments just yesterday of the norwegian foreign minister when he asked what would happen if we do not support this government. there would be only chaos and crisis if we do not give it our support. therefore, president-in-office, the good news in your speech is that you are seeking an urgent meeting to review the situation yet again. that is a positive step forward. all i can say is that we have often accused the palestinians of missing opportunities; we have often accused the israelis of missing opportunities. this is an opportunity that we ourselves must not miss.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – madam president, i have to say i am still in a bit of a state of shock over the words of the representative of the council. i do not understand how he can say that the new unity government does not fulfil the criteria of the quartet. our delegation has just come back from the region and all of us unanimously agreed that they had. yes, there are still some qassam rockets which of course are to be condemned. but do you really think that, by refusing to fully engage with the government, the eu is helping bring that back under control? do you really think it has got nothing to do with the economic and political stranglehold in which israel holds gaza? you mention the detention of soldier shalit – and of course he should be released – but you did not even mention the 41 members of the palestinian legislative council who are still detained by israel; you did not even mention the detention of 10 000 palestinian political prisoners held by israel, many without trial. so, let us have some balance in this debate. by refusing to fully recognise the new unity government and by channelling aid via a temporary international mechanism rather than through the palestinian authority, the eu is actively undermining the authority and the apparatus of palestine’s democratic institutions. and, even worse than that, our position is actually encouraging those elements both inside and outside palestine which want this government to fail. every day that goes by when we refuse to engage fully with this government is another day for the extremists to say, ‘look: democracy is not working. we did everything the international community demanded – democratic elections, a new unity government, fulfilling the quartet demands, and still we face a political and economic boycott. so, why on earth are we helping to bring about a democratically-elected government which is doing its best to keep the peace?’ is that really what we want? do not imagine that the alternative will be a slightly different government whose colours we like slightly better. the alternative will be chaos and violence on an unimaginable scale, the whole region will become destabilised and there will be even more rapid growth of extremism across the middle east. because, while the council adopts a wait-and-see policy to review how the new government performs, each day it waits it puts the very outcome it wants to see in ever greater jeopardy. there is a very real danger that in a few years’ time we will look back at this moment and think, ‘why on earth did we not support democracy in palestine when we had the chance?’ so to the council i say please tell us again what the palestinian government has to do, and to the commission i ask, when will you suspend the eu-israel association agreement?
madam president, the misery and suffering in palestine is truly awful and, while the fact that it is largely self-inflicted does not lessen its impact, it undermines those who always want to blame israel for every tragedy in the region. today, of course, the usual suspects in this debate, like mr davies and ms lucas, on their habitual hobbyhorses, have done their biased best to unreasonably shift all the blame onto israel. what we are witnessing is a veritable civil war in palestine between fatah and hamas, and the particularly aggressive actions of hamas show us that the pursuit of democracy and a democratic mandate has done nothing to tame or to temper their adherence to terror. it is this undiluted attachment to terror that makes hamas so unfit to govern. likewise, their continuing aggression towards israel, with their sustained rocket campaign, wholly justifies the defensive response of tel aviv. i fear that, as long as fatah and hamas can tout both gun and ballot, democracy and the peace that it can bring will not prevail in this troubled and failed entity that is gaza. any international initiative that fails to address the removal of the gun from both sides in palestine will flounder and fail.
madam president, once again we are discussing this tragic situation in palestine. let me say at the outset that all of us condemn terrorism wherever it occurs. i should say that the suicide bombers who attacked london a couple of years ago all came from my constituency. however, they were motivated by events in the middle east – by iraq and by palestine – and therefore it is proper that we should not only consider the events in the middle east as they affect the people there but also people in our own territories. i used to say that israel was the only democracy in the middle east. but two years ago i chaired our delegation for the elections of president abbas, which were much welcomed by the international community. however, when he came here a few months ago he said that if we, the international community, would not support him, there would be chaos and civil war in his country. last year i chaired the election observation mission for the elections to the parliament in palestine, and then the european union turned its back on those results. we seem to be paralysed by the roadmap. however, in my view the situation has now got to the point where the eu simply has to change its approach. palestine is collapsing economically, politically and socially. we are risking another algeria, where, when the west turned its back on the results of the elections in 1992, the result was 200 000 dead. i believe the time has now come for the eu, if it cannot recognise the government of national unity, at least under the terms of a draft resolution some of us discussed last week, it should cooperate comprehensively with that government. secondly, it is surely high time that the european parliament’s committee on foreign affairs had a working party – not just on the united nations or the balkans or the five external financing instruments: let us have a working party on the middle east.
madam president, the recent downward spiral of internecine violence between armed secular fatah and islamist hamas militias in gaza is of grave concern, as we now see the consequences of a weakened israeli leadership post-lebanese war and a weakened palestinian president abbas having to deal with the religious fundamentalists within hamas, who won the elections last year. the hamas members of the unity government are clearly not able to break away from their intransigent positions based on theocratic obscurantist views that the state of israel can never be explicitly recognised, that terrorist violence is justified and that they are not bound by previous agreements signed by the late chairman arafat. so clearly this palestinian authority unity government does not fulfil the quartet criteria and the eu cannot lift the ban on hamas as a terrorist organisation or directly fund the palestinian authority at present, relying instead on the tim for delivery of humanitarian aid which now totals over eur 500 million yearly and has actually risen during the last three years. there is increasing acceptance amongst arabs, as evidenced by the recent proposals from the arab league, of the desirability of a negotiated solution. the israelis all recognise the damage to israel’s economy and society of the continuing violence after the recent spate of over 100 qassam missiles launched by hamas at civilian areas. in fact there was one fatality last week which constitutes, in my view, a war crime under international law. only the extremists, it seems, are afraid of peace. whatever the origins of the middle east conflict, there is increasing recognition amongst arab states that israel is here to stay, whilst jews around the world can see that israel’s long-term security is best served by recognition of the legitimate aspirations of the palestinian people to have their own secure state also. but the palestinian authority must first be able to secure law and order on its territory, which it is failing signally to do right now. securing the release of the bbc reporter alan johnston and the kidnapped soldier, corporal shalit, would be a great start and create a climate conducive to restarting the vital roadmap for peace talks.
mr president, i was mildly encouraged by what the commissioner had to say and, frankly, thoroughly depressed by what the council had to say. it seems incredible that the council fails to recognise that the creation of a government of national unity in palestine was a major political risk both for fatah and hamas. the platform of unity government is a platform of negotiations and trying to reach peace, something the council failed to acknowledge. i believe – and i think the majority in this house now believes – that the time has come to stop all restrictions on our dealings with the palestinian authority. the commissioner has said today that the conditions for renewing direct aid have almost been met. commissioner, let us not wait for protection. i plead with you to go to the next foreign affairs council meeting and ask them to recognise the palestinian authority’s government of national unity. if the palestinian government fails to keep its promise, of course we can then end our negotiations and our involvement with them, but let us give them a chance. failure to cooperate with the palestinian government does nothing to end the cycle of violence or tackle the grave humanitarian crisis that so many of my colleagues have spoken eloquently about this afternoon. failure to cooperate with the palestinian government also does nothing to encourage israel to end its financial and military assaults on palestine. even today, the deputy defence minister of israel warned that his country could single out the leader of hamas, the current palestinian prime minister, for extrajudicial killing. does anyone really believe that actions such as this would help the peace process?
mr president, after the tragic failure of the bush administration to push for an israel/palestine peace deal in the last five years, the arab peace initiative is a rare bright spot. the release of corporal shalit and alan johnston and the 40 palestinian legislators would create much-needed goodwill. the fact that the eu and the us are maintaining links with palestinian foreign and finance ministers shows that there is no boycott, no failure to engage and the hundreds of millions of euros of humanitarian aid mean our back is not turned to the peoples’ plight. however, it is very difficult to conceive of resuming budgetary support to the pa when the unity government has not, despite some claims to the contrary, fulfilled the quartet demands. even if we do not attribute to prime minister haniyeh the continuing statements of hamas spokesmen vowing to destroy israel, we cannot ignore his invocation of god or martyrdom to rally palestinians just last night. colleagues who wished to argue pragmatically that the unity government is the best deal on offer should stick to that justification for supping with them and not try to persuade us that something has happened which has not.
mr president, our message to every israeli, every palestinian, every member of hamas or fatah must be: in the name of your god and for the sake of your children, pull back! today we have the israeli spokesman threatening to kill the elected prime minister of palestine; we have the hamas threats to seek vengeance; we have fatah and hamas in and out of conflict with each other; the killing of a palestinian family on a gaza beach leading to the capturing of the soldier shalit, which led to attack and counterattack, tit for tat and on it goes. stop; think; talk. release soldier shalit, release alan johnston and release the speaker and the 40 members of the elected palestinian parliament. and to the eu i say, engage with both the palestinian government and with the israeli government. secondly, one says, let us find ways of ending the causes of violence, and the biggest cause is poverty. palestinian poverty has rocketed and poverty comes from withheld taxes, from unpaid employees, from trade and banking embargoes. it is time for all that to end before it ends in more violence. it is time to stop and remove illegal settlements. it is time to stop and remove that gruesome, cruel, immoral wall, and it is time, commissioner, to publish the document compiled by the heads of mission in jerusalem and ramallah, who reported on east jerusalem and whose summary was that israel’s activities in jerusalem are in violation both of its roadmap obligations and of international law. let us have that out in the open; let us talk, and let us then persuade everybody to think about their children’s future, stop the violence and work for peace. (applause)
thank you, commissioner, for that reply. do you accept that the objective of the biofuels policy of the european union is to reduce global emissions, not just european union emissions? my concern and the concern that lies behind this question is that if we only measure the emissions from biofuels in europe and not the emissions involved in the production and shipping of those biofuels, we might not actually be contributing to the reduction in global emissions. i am pleased to hear what the commissioner said about the sustainability scheme. will the commission look at how we can distinguish between good and bad biofuels from the point of view of emissions?
commissioner, your answer clearly reflects the efforts that you put into the framework decision on racist crimes and you are clearly saying that that this kind of cybercrime has hit websites which, if they were in the printed word, would be deeply offensive to everyone in this house. now that they are on the web they are equally as offensive. do you feel the framework decision will do the job adequately or do you feel that the cybercrime communication, which again is current, may be a way forward or do you believe it is just a question of asking member states to implement adequate laws which will cope with an accelerating rise in the most offensive sites which excite racial hatred and violence based on difference?
thank you for that very comprehensive answer, commissioner, but you give your opinion on whether you feel that the eu’s efforts to tackle forced prostitution during the world cup in germany were successful, and what lessons can be learnt from this experience for future international sporting events held in europe, such as the 2012 olympic games which are to be held in london?
mr president, on a point of order, i have to object to the way the questions are being handled. members take the time to draft questions, submit them six to eight weeks in advance, and then you do not take those questions because you give the floor to other members who wander in, look at the list and may have a fleeting interest in the question. you have taken up time with two questioners or people who have not taken the time to question the commissioner properly. i object to that on the basis that i have taken the time to draft proper questions and i would like an answer from the commissioner so that i can also follow up with the press on those issues. in future members will not want to table questions if this is the way you intend to conduct question time.
mr president, i cannot agree with the last speaker in her interpretation of moving a war memorial to a military cemetery. it seems to me that this is entirely the correct procedure. it is the right of the estonian government to make that decision, and this was used as a pretext, not, commissioner, as you said, for a dispute between russia and estonia, but for a dispute between russia and the eu. commission president barroso made the point extremely eloquently at samara that we express our total solidarity with estonia – as well as with poland, with the czech republic and, indeed, with my own country, whose ambassador has also been harassed by nashi, an organisation from which president putin does very little to dissociate himself. we are told constantly that we have to de-escalate the situation, which we did not create. in your reply, commissioner, i wonder whether you can dwell on the wto negotiations to which you referred. is it possible that we can continue to negotiate entry with a country which apparently appears to be implicated in the disruption of electronic communications – as mr savi has just explained – with the banking system, with our own security? surely a very clear message has to be sent to president putin that of course we want to continue these negotiations, but we cannot do so until the cyber-attacks cease.
mr president, russia regrettably will not wake up to the new geopolitical reality that the so-called ‘near-abroad’, where it exercised total power for most of the last century, from the caucuses to ukraine, is no longer a reality. the baltic states are now also proud, independent eu member states and it is right and proper that the eu and nato, which they have joined, should show total solidarity when russia attempts to bully the smallest of them – estonia – over what is entirely a sovereign internal matter of that newly independent republic. many might question the political wisdom of moving the statue of a so-called soviet liberator. however, i, fortunately, come from a country that has never experienced the brutal stalinist invasion and annexation that these countries have. one must appreciate that most estonians do not see the soviets as liberators but as tyrants, who extinguished the independence and freedom they enjoyed in the inter-war period. the relocation of the statue and fallen russian soldiers was conducted according to international law and it in no way justified the duma resolutions calling for the resignation of the estonian government; the subsequent violent demonstrations; the cyber-attacks on estonia’s sophisticated system of e-government; the outrageous use of nashi, an extreme nationalist organisation, to harass the estonian embassy – in violation of the vienna conventions, and on the back of a similar strategy adopted against the british ambassador, anthony brenton, who attended the kasparov rally last year. if it wants good relations after the summit with the eu as a whole and if it wants to negotiate a new pca, russia must appreciate that it has to respect all the eu member states equally. the cosy bilateral days of former chancellor schröder, now richly rewarded by president putin with a cushy job after his retirement, are well and truly over. the new eu leaders, such as sarkozy and merkel, are going to get much tougher with russia in future. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report calls for an eu foreign minister, a common foreign policy, a common eu seat on the un security council and much more and, of course, for the all too predictable full ratification of the rejected european constitution in order to make it all possible. the parts that amused me the most were those calling for a foreign policy to be decided by qualified majority voting and for national security services to be subject to democratic scrutiny by the european parliament. the justification for all this is that this is what the people of europe want from the european union. i do not know which people mr brok has been speaking to, but they certainly were not british. the idea that they would want to hand over control of their foreign policy, defences and security services to the european union is laughable. the frightening thing is that mr brok is serious.
(in writing). – this report by mr brok is an important step forward in european common foreign and security policy. with the successive development of european industrial union, social union – as part of the european social model – economic and monetary union and the adoption of the single currency, europe is now ready and must move to develop and project a united stance on foreign policy issues. this is beginning to happen. europe has adopted a distinct stance on the israel-palestine conflict, iran and the korean peninsula, all in my opinion with their commitment to dialogue and critical engagement far more appropriate than the confrontational and one-sided unbalanced approach of the bush administration. our first cfsp venture into asia has been a resounding success with the eu-brokered peace deal in aceh being overseen by the joint eu-asean aceh monitoring mission, which observed the decommissioning of arms, the resettlement of combatants – on both sides – and the removal of non-organic troops, all of which led to the historic elections last december that saw the former gam combatant and prisoner of the government in indonesia in banda aceh elected governor. we will continue to aid and assist this peace process to consolidate this success. now it is time for europe to express itself more strongly in the korean peninsula. (...) (written statement abbreviated pursuant to rule 142(7))
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the council and the commission want to increase the minimum rate of excise duty on alcohol, supposedly to reduce the distortions in competition and to promote the single market. the rapporteur states that the minimum rate set in 1992 and applied by a minority of member states has not prevented other member states from widening the gap by increasing their rates. the conclusion is that it is pointless to set minimum rates when member states are free to set higher rates and the directive should be abolished. however, the eu is never going to relinquish control over anything, however pointless it may be, and certain countries will see their rates rise when the minimum rate is increased in line with inflation. this at least will teach new member states a valuable lesson: the eu will interfere in that which is closest to their hearts and it will cost them money.
mr president, here we go again – yet another timid, surreptitious attempt by the commission to introduce tax harmonisation by the back door. in this house, we love to talk about ‘harmful tax competition’, so let us get one thing straight right away: there is no such thing as harmful tax competition; all tax competition is good. any attempt at harmonisation represents a cartel operated by governments against the interests of the people. like all attempts to harmonise taxes, this proposal will have the effect of raising taxes yet further in our grossly overtaxed economies. the commission’s proposal has a further defect: by seeking to apply a common percentage increase across the board, it further exacerbates the existing distortion between beverage types, which unfairly discriminates in favour of wine at the expense of traditional spirits, like cognac and scotch. here i must declare an interest: i once worked in the scotch whisky business; for several years i was mr johnny walker in korea. any reasonable person must surely agree that the gross discrimination in duty terms in favour of wine, and against beer and spirits, which these proposals enshrine, is wholly unacceptable. it cannot be allowed to proceed. let me therefore commend the work of the rapporteur, the admirable mrs lulling. rarely has a report in this house distilled so much common sense. the 1992 measure to harmonise alcohol duties has failed in its objectives. the changes proposed by the commission would also fail. the amount of duty collected is small, sometimes too low to justify the collection costs. member states should be free to set rates that suit their own people and their culture. mrs lulling’s final recommendation is that the community legislation in this matter should be abolished. let me congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lulling, on a job well done.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is not often i find myself in this position, but this morning i have to acknowledge what the european union is doing. in fact i have come along to say thank you: thank you on behalf of international business. you know the kind – the companies that employ thousands of people who are travelling around europe the whole time – the ones that make billions in profits. they are going to be big beneficiaries of this. and i want to say thank you on behalf of the super-rich in europe – not the people that just go to benidorm for a fortnight, but those that travel regularly. they too will be beneficiaries. but above all, i want to thank you personally. i use this piece of kit an enormous amount. your proposals are going to make me personally better off by eur 3000 a year. in fact, i wish to declare an interest. i will not be voting on the rübig report, as i am personally affected by it, and i would recommend that other meps abstain from the vote. we should not be voting on issues which will help to line our own pockets. the truth is that this is just a giant publicity stunt, is it not? you want to be loved. you want the eu to be loved, so you are telling people they are going to be better off. frankly, it smacks of communist central planning when bureaucrats and politicians think they know what the right market price is. they are always wrong. this will lead to higher costs for domestic consumers. it will lead to less competition and innovation in the market place. it is yet another giant eu folly.
mr president, moving on from the sour grapes you have just heard, i would like to say this measure represents a win-win situation for the eu because we are actually doing something practical for our consumers. it has been a long time getting here but now we are here i hope very much that we can implement this measure quickly and that the operators will take the hint and change their tariffs quickly. i hope that they will see the benefit of cutting their prices through getting additional business – even from my colleague sitting way over there. we are addressing a market failure. a specific market failure but a short-term one i hope, and it is significant that we have the sunset clause to show that we expect this situation to be rectified and competition to assert itself in this part of the market. we owe it to innocent tourists and consumers to save them from suffering that nasty shock when they come back from travelling on holiday – or even business – of being charged for receiving a call and having a huge bill. we owe it to them to fix it. we may hope for something like 60% savings on the average charge for a roaming call, and this is of material benefit to our consumers. i am very glad that my amendment requiring the operators to give information, the ‘icon’ amendment, has been incorporated into the text. i am grateful for that. and i would like to pay tribute to the consensus across parliament between the groups, along with the commission, the council, consumer groups, and the regulators, in supporting this measure. finally, i would like to recommend to colleagues my favourite mobile phone ring tone. please listen carefully. it is called silence mode.
mr president, i will echo our commissioner’s phrase ‘a europe of results’ to start my speech. i believe we can all, especially our rapporteur, take pride in an example of the eu working. roaming is clearly best dealt with at eu level, as we have a need to act. there is a clear case of market failure. our citizens are clearly losing out because of it. we had to do something. the package before us today is a proportionate response and my group supports it. it will impose transparency, rights to information and a protective tariff which will see reductions of up to 70%, and will protect vast swathes – hundreds of millions – of our citizens. crucially, it is time-limited to three years to specifically correct the market failure, whereupon we will revisit the subject. at a time when we hear too much talk of institutional minutiae, i will have no difficulty commending this europe of results to my constituents in scotland.
mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection i have got one minute to speak, and if i were speaking here on my mobile phone for one minute, as an ordinary consumer, i would still be paying excessive costs for making the call. of course this law will change all of that. consumers will see the cost of calls halved. they will receive automatic information on the cost of making and receiving calls and they will benefit from an automatic eurotariff. the imco committee first raised this issue in 2005 when in a hearing we responded to consumer complaints on excessive charging and now in 2007 this parliament has shown it can deliver for consumers. so this is good news and we want this to come in as early as possible. we want consumers to continue to benefit from this, even after the three years when the law will lapse, but consumers should be aware that the costs of using their mobile phone for internet access or texting is still excessive. commissioner, we would ask you to act in this area. the industry itself should move to reduce these prices. we have shown that we will act here on behalf of consumers if they are being ripped off. i hope the industry will take this message seriously.
mr president, calling home while on your holidays has been far too expensive for far too long. many mobile operators have been charging customers extortionate prices and, in parliament’s view, very unnecessary tariffs. we warned them to put their house in order. we gave them the chance to do the right thing but they persisted and it is for that reason that we have had to introduce legislation that gives protection to anyone who uses a mobile while abroad. it is not an ideal solution, but it is the only option left to control those who abuse the market. let this be a lesson to other industries. one of the things we discovered in our discussions with mobile companies was that much roaming traffic is kept in-house as customers are directed on to partner networks. so for many roaming companies, wholesale prices are simply a way of ensuring different parts of the same company benefit. when we understand this, the market price for consumers becomes even more exorbitant. this is a victory for consumers, a victory for the european parliament and a victory for the european union.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the commissioner has helpfully reminded us of the worldwide initiative on decent work and that it has been recently endorsed by the g8. indeed, at a un summit in september 2005 as many as 150 world leaders agreed that the international labour organisation concept of decent work should become a central objective of their own national policies. essentially, of course, this agenda concerns countries where such a concept does not really exist. within europe, frameworks providing conditions for decent work are largely in place, though implementation here can always be improved. the rapporteur has shown not only personal initiative in bringing this report to parliament, but also that a member of the centre-right political family can not only take the lead on this important agenda but also generate substantial cross-party support. that said, there were some close votes in committee that changed the overall balance of the report by inserting new points or paragraphs. these we hope to change in the full vote in the house later today, either by deletion or by modification via agreed compromises with other political groups. in promoting the concept of decent work, we should all be on the same side. of course, parliament does not have the powers to instruct member states on what to do in this area, and rightly so: it is for member state governments to decide. however, all such governments should surely agree the importance of providing lifelong-learning opportunities, the need to be proactive on increasing women’s participation in the labour market, the need to do so much more to resolve the challenges of reconciling work and family life and, above all, the need to offer help to the developing world. this is a thoughtful report, which deserves to be widely read.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. the report includes a very long resolution running to 94 paragraphs, but for me its essence is summed up in two paragraphs. recital v states that ‘in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union in a socially sustainable way, it is important to improve productivity by promoting decent work and the quality of working life, including health and safety at work, a better balance between flexibility and security in employment, lifelong learning, mutual trust and participation as well as a better conciliation between private/family and working life; combating gender discrimination and all other forms of discrimination’. paragraph 6 calls for ‘a better mobilisation of the internal and external policies of the eu on the promotion of the decent work agenda, especially in matters of development, external assistance, enlargement, neighbourhood policy, trade, migration and external bilateral and multilateral relations’. if these two paragraphs were fully implemented, the eu would have made great strides in promoting the decent work agenda, both here at home and globally. other paragraphs of importance to me include paragraphs 46, 48 and 51, which broadly cover the need for european multinational corporations to behave in a socially responsible fashion in their global operations. these build on our earlier work on the subject. a number of paragraphs set out the need for the eu to use its trade and economic power as levers to promote the decent work agenda globally. for example, paragraph 8 calls for the full and proper implementation of gsp+, in line with the debate we promoted with commissioner mandelson on the subject last year. finally, i want to highlight paragraph 47. this calls for the development of ‘a label for products that are produced under conditions that respect the principles of decent work and conform to core labour standards, and that specifically exclude any child labour input’. let us empower european consumers to drive forward the decent work agenda in their daily choices.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, we all want decent work, do we not? cleaning out a cesspit, out in all weathers, knee deep in mud mending broken gas mains or removing asbestos from the berlaymont building is hardly decent work, but somebody has to do it – or do generous rates of pay turn a rotten job into a decent one? i am intrigued, therefore, by paragraph 27, which talks about establishing a standard definition of forced labour. forced labour, here, in the eu? or is that a reference to the exploitation of people illegally trafficked from one country to another? now that does need cracking down on, and the best way to do that is to restore national borders and carefully check all those seeking to cross them. at the moment, it is open house all the way from the russian frontier to the atlantic coast. no wonder we now have people-trafficking on a massive scale and forced labour to follow it.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
mr president, on a point of order, in line with the rules of procedure, i would like to declare a pecuniary interest in the rübig report. i will not be taking part in the voting on the items in question.
that is very proper. most of us have mobile phones!
mr president, i also rise under rule 166 to declare a pecuniary interest. as a member of the european parliament and a frequent user of mobile phones, i stand to gain a great deal from this legislation. therefore i disqualify myself from voting. i trust many of my colleagues will join me! (laughter)
well that is noted!
mr president, following the logic of the last two speakers, will you enquire whether there may perhaps be a solitary member of the european parliament who does not possess a mobile phone? then that member can determine whether or not we adopt this legislation! (laughter and applause)
i think we can move on now. - after the adoption of the legislative resolution: president. congratulations to mr rübig and to the mobile phone users of europe! (applause)
because the commission has not made any proposals, it will automatically be referred back to committee. that will happen anyway.
there will of course be a debate when the matter comes back before the house.
that concludes the vote.
in writing. mr president, my group wanted to see our amendments incorporated to this report which would have increased the powers of parliament over future budgets on trans-european energy and transport networks, though they were unsuccessful. however, it remains important that this area of investment remain under close parliamentary scrutiny as it represents such a clear instance of ‘eu added value’. the eu has broken down barriers across europe for many years, yet so many infrastructural barriers remain in energy and must be addressed. scotland in particular has much to contribute to europe’s energy needs but we need the necessary connections to do so, and i will be exploring all ways to lever eu funding into connections to maximise scotland’s green energy potential.
in writing. it makes a pleasant change to welcome a piece of eu legislation. the enforced reduction in mobile roaming charges is good for consumers across europe. though still high at 35p per minute to make a call and 17p per minute to receive a call, they are set to fall further over the next three years. now reductions must be obtained on texting and email connections.
in writing. ukip meps, like all meps in parliament, have a vested interest in reduced mobile roaming charges. therefore, ukip meps will not vote on the rübig report. ukip believes it is morally wrong for meps to vote on an issue which could lead to personal enrichment. moreover, we never approve of eu regulation.
in writing. i warmly welcome the new deal on mobile roaming charges. labour meps have been campaigning for two years to introduce these measures which represent a genuine triumph for european consumers and could not have been achieved without the eu. for too long mobile phone companies have been charging outrageous sums to people using their phones elsewhere in the eu. it is a shame that conservative meps sided with the mobile phone industry to oppose consumer protection, making the case for higher charges to be levied.
in writing. i supported this first-reading compromise agreement. this is an important victory which will benefit consumers, who will be able to enjoy cheaper roaming costs by this summer.
in writing. i voted for the report on the proposal for a regulation on roaming on public mobile networks, which will lead to a reduction in prices for millions of roaming customers. the initiative will help an enormous number of consumers who are affected by the roaming charges that are unjustifiably high. the regulation will ensure that prices paid for international roaming when travelling within the european union will not be unjustifiably higher than the charges for calls paid within the user’s country. consumers will benefit from lower prices for making calls in the visited country, back home or to any other eu member state. consumers will also make considerable savings when receiving calls.
in writing. i voted in favour of this measure as so many european citizens are affected by higher than necessary roaming charges. the reduction of costs for so many people and businesses is a very useful contribution to peoples' private pockets, as well as business costs. the function of the mobile telephony market is to allow the maximum efficiency of the industry, while striking the right balance in consumer interests.
in writing. ukip meps, like all mep's in the parliament, have a vested interest in reduced mobile roaming charges. therefore, ukip meps will not vote on the rubig report. ukip believes it is morally wrong for meps to vote on an issue which could lead to personal enrichment. moreover, we never approve of eu regulation.
in writing. believing that the provision of quality and universal health services is the sole competence of the member states, i voted against the vergnaud report and the attempt to re-introduce healthcare into the services directive.
in writing. i voted against this report, as amended, because i believe it still leaves our national health services at risk from creeping liberalisation and legal uncertainty. i welcome parliament maintaining its position to exclude health services from the scope of the services directive. however, we are now apparently refusing to set boundaries on the role of the market in relation to the right of member states to decide on the method, financing and scope of the health services they provide. unless we adopt a clear legislative framework, preferably backed by a treaty change, we are actively encouraging the court of justice to decide what is, or is not, a medical treatment and whether or not it should be reimbursed or require prior authorisation. as the rapporteur on regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems, i wish to make it clear to some in this house that the reimbursement situation is not a new system: it has been in place for over 30 years and has proved invaluable to thousands of citizens but its scope and workings should be determined by parliament and government – not the court, so i regret the adoption of amendment 24 from the liberals.
in writing. i voted for this report on the consequences of excluding health services from the services directive. in particular i am pleased that the report asked the commission to propose "an appropriate instrument" to codify the case law of the court of justice.
in writing. i very much welcome the fact that, as of next year, agriculture will no longer be the biggest item of expenditure on the eu budget, but the various structural funds will. this is a welcome reallocation of resources – provided, of course, that the reallocated money is well spent! and here too, i would give a cautious welcome to the gradual shift within structural funding itself towards developing innovation and enterprise in our less prosperous regions. structural funding must be more than a simple transfer of resources from the more prosperous member states to the less prosperous ones – if that were all it is, this could be done simply by adjusting budget contributions and rebates. structural funding must bring added value and be a genuine european policy in its own right, helping less prosperous regions rather than member states, developing transnational linkages and helping ensure that all can benefit from the european single market.
in writing. mr president, i was pleased to support this own-initiative report on the importance of structural funds to eu cohesion, as in scotland we have vast experience of using the funds to develop our peripheral areas and regenerate our urban centres. as the new funds roll out, we have an expertise we are now using across europe to assist our new colleagues as they set up their programmes, and we of course retain a crucial interest in this topic so i am pleased to see this report gain the majority it has today.
in writing. i commend my colleague david martin for his all too apposite report, which i will be supporting. the eu has a responsibility to ensure that developing countries have the capacity to engage in and benefit from the global economy. it is not just about a fairer, more open trading system. despite enormous advances in market access including the ‘everything but arms’ initiative by the commission, the least developed countries’ share of world trade has halved over the last 40 years from 1.9 % to 1 %. aid for trade is necessary to create the conditions and infrastructure to trigger growth, but this aid must be under the control of the recipients themselves to fit within their own national development plans. i am delighted that the uk is taking a lead in delivering its share of the eur 2 billion annual aid for trade budget promised by eu member states at gleneagles by 2010. we can only eradicate third world poverty by empowering businesses, particularly those engaged in fair trade, to provide the decent work so desperately needed.
in writing. as rapporteur i gladly supported my report. there were only a handful of amendments submitted to the plenary vote, some of which added to the report or positively changed the language, some however changed the emphasis of the report too much, meaning i was unable to support some of the amendments.
in writing. economic partnership agreements have been highly divisive and controversial. at times it has seemed as though development considerations have not been foremost in the commission's thinking on epas. this parliament report presents a very timely and balanced contribution to the debate and the rapporteur robert sturdy is to be congratulated on his approach to the report.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports much of this resolution, in particular the high priority given to the consolidation of democracy, promotion of human rights and non-proliferation, and the important eu role in conflict prevention and building effective multilateralism. however, the resolution focuses too much attention on internal procedural changes rather than foreign policy priorities. the eplp voted against paragraphs 1, 5 and 11, and abstained on 2, 3, 4 and 5, as the references to the constitutional treaty and the detailed provisions within are inappropriate whilst its future is still being discussed. in particular, the adoption of the constitutional treaty should not be seen as a prerequisite for future enlargement. the eplp also abstained on paragraph 8(g), as the added value of an eu diplomatic academy has yet to be proven, and on paragraph 8(h) – whilst agreeing that there is certainly a need for external delegations to be strengthened, these will not be eu ‘embassies’. the eplp fully supports reform of the un security council and also supports improvements in the way that the eu speaks at the un – however it is inappropriate to talk of a single eu seat, as in paragraph 10.
in writing. i voted for this report and in particular am pleased that it emphasises the need for internal setting of external priorities, for example the fight against poverty, in order to have a common european voice in international affairs.
in writing. i will be voting for this report despite the conservatives and liberals gutting it of its most vital elements, for example deleting ‘binding initiatives in corporate social responsibility’, the need to introduce a ‘fair and innovative tax policy’ and investigating/listing companies violating core labour standards. i am appalled at their anti-labour movement attitudes.
in writing. uk conservatives fully support the ilo principle of decent work. we agree upon the importance of providing lifelong learning opportunities, the need to be proactive on increasing women's participation in the labour market, and the need to do so much more to resolve the challenges of reconciling work and family life. however, we disagree with the idea that the european parliament should take up its time issuing pronouncements on this subject, however worthy or well-intentioned. parliament does not have the competence to instruct member states on what to do in this area. it is for member state governments to decide, and rightly so. so, while we have taken part in the debate, and also in the vote to curb the interventionist excesses of the left, conservative meps abstained on the final vote.
in writing. i voted for this report and against the liberal and epp amendments which sought to delete the references to binding initiatives on corporate social responsibility. csr should be at the core of european businesses activities both internally within the eu and externally and i was highly disappointed that these two groups did not support the steps outlined in the report.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, yesterday, in this chamber, one of europe’s great champions sketched his vision of a union fit for the 21st century – a union that is democratic, transparent and, above all, effective. however, crossing that rubicon requires firm leadership, mr balkenende. the german presidency has shown its strength by uniting member states under the banner of the berlin declaration. it must pull them together again in the weeks before the european council and the intergovernmental conference which follows if we are to win the war of public opinion and unite around a revised treaty. the stakes are high. your foreign minister, mr verhagen, said: ‘in today’s globalised world people are afraid of losing their jobs, their social security, their quality of life’. yet that is not an argument for less europe, indeed, it may well be an argument for more europe. (applause) europe cannot secure its energy supply, combat climate change or tackle terrorism with a retreat into unilateralism. you, of all people, should know that, mr balkenende. for history teaches us that the netherlands’ golden years – as the wealthiest nation in the 17th-century world – came from uniting the seven provinces, not dividing them. you must convince your citizens that unity and prosperity are inseparable; that inability to make progress on political integration means europe will lose its place as a global standard-setter and end up at the mercy of powers like russia with its belligerent energy policy. to take key decisions on jobs, security and quality of life, the union needs an end to unscrupulous use of national vetoes. to address the democratic deficit, it needs greater democratic accountability. to maintain its international prestige and internal effectiveness, its institutions must change with the times. none of this is possible without the substance of what was agreed in the european convention, and that substance must be maintained, whatever cosmetic surgery you try to effect on the surface. we are not just talking about ideology here: we are talking about people’s jobs, their quality of life and their long-term prospects. it is time that you, and others like you, retook the initiative and brought europe back to their people. nobody here is seeking a european superstate – diversity of customs, history and language will ensure that. however, we are seeking a european ‘superpeople’, a united people. too often our heads of government have taken the advice of the english conservative prime minister arthur bonar law when he exclaimed: ‘i must follow them; i am their leader’. but populism cannot move europe forward, nor cement our quality of life, international influence or economic strength – only solidarity can do that. when concerns over the so-called symbols of a superstate – like flags or anthems –supersede debate on real issues, then it is time for a change of strategy. (applause) your public demands energy security; it demands a european environment policy; it demands common action on migration. from the new treaty, they will get it, for the tools are already in the text. so sell that to your people, instead of sidestepping the issues. stop letting the tail wag the dog, and lead the netherlands back to the heart of european decision-making, as befits the founder status of your country in our union. in conclusion, prime minister, i would say, do as your countryman justus lipsius advised: be stoical in adversity, embrace necessity and be constant in your faith in europe. for your people’s peace, prosperity and security depend upon it. (applause)
mr president, one has to ask how much energy has now been wasted on chasing the moonbeam of an eu constitution. in the rarefied atmosphere of this house, an eu constitution may seem important, but frankly, most of our citizens have moved on and care more about things like good education, a good health service and rising house prices – things a constitution will not change. part of the reason that the eu institutions are stuck in this rut is because of the refusal to take a democratic ‘no’ for an answer. these debates are dominated by siren demands for what is unobtainable and with demands for stratagems to avoid letting the citizens have their say. hence the ploys of a change of title, a slimmed-down text and a total aversion to referenda. but rejig it as you might, that which imposes the apparatus of statehood on the eu, with a president and a foreign minister, and that which further savages national sovereignty by promoting even more qualified majority voting, is the same old tired, tarnished product that has already been rejected, and upon which citizens must have their say. desperate as my own government is to welsh on the pledge of a referendum in the united kingdom, i say the people of each nation-state have a right to have their say. only those lacking in confidence in their own case or with a knavish design to thwart public opinion run away from letting the people decide. prime minister, you were brought here today – as i am sure you realise – so that the euro-fanatics of this house could try to pressurise you to depart from the democratic decision made in your own country. i trust you will not be so foolish as to allow that to happen.
mr president, prime minister, three elements puzzled and concerned me in your speech. firstly, your determination to keep the three-pillar structure will contribute neither to simplifying nor to making more transparent the system of the union, nor will it strengthen the capacity of the union to act effectively. secondly, i was quite unable to understand what you were saying on the issue of clarifying competences and the transfer of sovereignty. as we all know, sovereignty cannot be transferred and competences cannot be conferred without the full agreement of 27 member states. thirdly, your demand that national parliaments should be able to block the union’s legislative process seems to me to be a severe assault not only upon the right of initiative of the commission, but also upon the legislative prerogatives of the council and parliament. the setting-up of an effective third legislative chamber would be quite the opposite of simplifying, it would be an abuse of the principle of the separation of powers and it would certainly confuse the public. i would be grateful for a single example of where the tweede kamer [the dutch house of representatives] so far could have raised a complaint about a draft proposal breaching the principle of subsidiarity. (applause)
mr president, i should like to welcome the prime minister and congratulate him on his election success earlier this year. as he said, the june summit will be an important one, and we know that the german presidency is keen to reach an outline agreement then. agreement will not be easy. the stated positions of the member states continue to vary quite substantially and in these circumstances i believe it would be counterproductive to try to force through the wrong sort of agreement in brussels. you said recently at your bilateral meeting with the prime minister that any new amending treaty should not have the characteristics of a constitution. i wholeheartedly agree with this view and i believe that this is the view of many millions of people across our continent. you also said that you were keen to see the role of national parliaments strengthened. i strongly agree with this view too and i hope you will pursue this at the summit. i believe that our citizens need to have assurances that their national parliaments will also play a greater role in scrutinising draft european legislation. there remains a tangible disconnection between the european institutions and the people at this time. i have often said that i am not hostile to the idea of some solution that would improve the workings of the institutions in dealing with enlargement and which address the alienation people feel about the institutions themselves. however, i do not believe this solution is a constitution. we should not be seeking greater powers for the centre. instead, we should be concentrating on policy delivery. as you have said, and my party leader david cameron has also said, there is an urgent need for a greater emphasis on making europe more competitive, tackling global poverty and dealing with the serious issues of climate change. these issues are what people want us to tackle and member states can do much more to cooperate in these fields. i therefore urge the prime minister and his fellow heads of government not to get bogged down in institutional and constitutional debate in brussels. instead, let us begin responding to what people are asking us to do: reforming our economies, tackling global warming and alleviating the crushing poverty that we are seeing now in the developing world. (applause)
mr president, unlike some here i am actually quite encouraged by what mr balkenende has said. mr balkenende, you could, after all, have come here and done what some over on that side of the house are urging you to do, and say, ‘we said “no”, end of story. forget it. no new treaty. no reform’. but you are not. you are coming here and saying, ‘we said “no”, but we recognise that 18 countries have said “yes”, that an overwhelming majority of the european union wants to go ahead and reform our union in the way outlined in the constitutional treaty’. you are saying yes, we will sit down and negotiate a compromise acceptable to all 27 countries, and on top of that you are saying that you want to salvage some of those useful key reforms that are contained in the constitutional treaty. you do not want to throw away everything in that treaty, you want to drop some things which gave cause for concern, much of it to do with the presentation and the vocabulary of that draft treaty, but the substance you are willing to negotiate on and to save. i think that is a lesson to the doomsayers, and i am encouraged that a compromise is possible. (applause)
madam president, it was my first visit to nigeria and my first african election, and i was disappointed: i had expected to see a free and fair election, and it was anything but that. i will not bore the house with my conclusions, because they are the same as those of the leader of the commission’s delegation and of the leader of the delegation i belong to, and they can be seen on youtube, in a short video i made, under the headline ‘nigeria’s rigged elections’. i should just like to address some lessons for the european union from this election in the largest country in africa. it seems to me that the chinese influence, referred to by mr belder, might be a little deeper than we perceive. we know that china is involved in the democracy backlash around the world: working with russia as a dirty duet, all over africa, with belarus, venezuela, zimbabwe and egypt. there is a process under way that the european union has to respond to, and i believe that the commissioner is committed to making the most use of the instrument that she and i are very committed to – the european instrument for democracy and human rights. let me just make some specific points. i was one of three members of the european parliament on this delegation, and that was not enough. i believe we have to reconsider as a house the use of former members of the european parliament in such delegations. for example, we will send a delegation to sierra leone in august; i will not be surprised if there are very few takers. secondly, concerning the independence of the european instrument for democracy and human rights, we heard that the eu mission in nigeria is involved with the government in approving projects. this must not happen: this instrument is supposed to be independent of host-country control. then there is the question of follow-up for this election. i know that the final report has not yet been published, but i believe that the european union has a commitment to the pursuit of democracy in those countries and the follow-up to the process of a bad election. finally, the use of the united nations as an agent for organising these very effective missions is an expensive luxury and needs to be reconsidered.
madam president, i would like to pay tribute to mr van den berg for all his excellent work as chief observer in nigeria in very difficult circumstances. i believe that the standing of the eu election observation missions in general was enhanced by the fact that the eom to nigeria did not fudge but came out with a clear message that the elections had been irregular. the great value of eu election observation missions is that they are independent and completely neutral. they are at arm’s length from eu foreign policy. the one point on which i am unhappy with the motion for a resolution is that in recital v and paragraph 15 a confusion has entered the text. there is an association of election observation and foreign policy, whereas they need to be kept quite separate. i hope that a way can be found around this through a normal amendment to get over the problem, but otherwise i am afraid that the alde group will have to vote against both recital v and paragraph 15.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, yesterday the newspapers had some good news. it was about the hatching of some rare egyptian tortoise eggs. the problem was, they were hatched in rome. they should not have been in rome. they should not have been smuggled from libya to rome along with 275 other rare tortoises, because they are in the highest protection category under the cites convention. even worse, this is happening inside our european union. we know that the european union is one of the world’s largest and most diverse importers and markets for wildlife products, with demands for pets, for fashion products, ornaments and medicines. that is why europe has a particular responsibility to do something about it. in my country, some 570 illegal wildlife items are seized every day by her majesty’s customs. one wonders how many are not detected. we know that the illegal trade in wildlife is the second biggest direct threat to species after habitat destruction. we know that a quarter of the trade is illegal. we know that billions of euros annually are made out of this, third only to the trafficking in drugs and arms. we know, of course, that we have to take account of the local populations and their traditions and needs, and that is in this resolution. we know there are differences of views between ngos and between scientists, but this motion for a resolution, i believe, is a balanced one. lastly, i very much welcome what the minister and the commissioner said about the elephant, so will you please support the resolution from kenya and mali for a 20-year moratorium on the ivory trade.
i have received a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate tabled under rule 108(5)see minutes.. the vote will be held on thursday at 12.00.
the next item is question time (b6-0018/2007). the following questions are addressed to the council. question no 1 by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou (h-0339/07) subject: political crisis in turkey and prospects of accession in the last few days, in connection with the appointment of the president of the republic, turkey has fallen into a deep political crisis which gives rise to serious doubts about the functioning of its democratic institutions. the country's constitutional court has annulled the first round of the elections, a decision vigorously contested by the government. the prime minister has stated that the parliamentary system has been brought to a halt and he is calling for early elections, while the general army staff has issued a warning that it will intervene to prevent the election of the islamist, abdullah gül, to the office of president. what are the council's views on this situation in a candidate country for accession to the eu? does it share the opinion of the commissioner responsible for enlargement, mr olli rehn, that the armed forces should respect the independent role of the democratic process, that the eu is based on the principles of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and the sovereignty of political forces vis-à-vis the military, and his insistence that any country seeking accession to the eu must respect those principles, which are the key elements of the copenhagen criteria? what impact does it believe such interventions by the military could have on the country's accession procedure? does the council have direct contacts with leading political figures in turkey and what is their reaction?
question no 2 by manuel medina ortega (h-0278/07) subject: frontex activity on the union's maritime borders given how effective the frontex mechanism’s activities in protecting the eu's atlantic waters are proving, can the council guarantee that frontext activity along the union's maritime borders will be ongoing?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0280/07) subject: security or freedom for european citizens at airports has the council assessed the measures prohibiting the transport of liquids during flights in terms of their effectiveness in thwarting terrorism and in terms of the undesirable consequences for the economy, health and justice, freedom and security for members of the public at large, who are having their personal items confiscated unjustifiably, being deprived of or having to pay dearly for drinking water, and being badly treated by the security services at european airports, with no control over the quality of those services which they provide to the public?
i can advise the honourable member that there is a hearing on that tomorrow. picking up on what the president-in-office has just said, does he feel that the sentiments expressed in this question are naive and include insinuations, cheap generalisations and, i would say, criticisms of valued security staff at our airports? further, would the council agree that perhaps, for example, paying a bit more for water and sacrificing some convenience at our airports is a small price to pay if it means increased security for passengers, lower risks of terrorist attacks and improved welfare for all people using the airports, whether departing, arriving or transiting through airports?
question no 6 by sarah ludford (h-0285/07) subject: gay pride marches as a reaction to the opposition to and attacks on some gay pride marches both inside and outside the eu in 2006, the european parliament adopted a resolution on 16 june 2006 on the increase in racist and homophobic violence in europe. this resolution recalled that european states have a duty to allow such marches and to protect participants, and notably condemned the russian authorities' decision to ban the first gay pride in moscow on 27 may 2006. with the season of gay pride marches now approaching, concerns arise regarding the effective protection of participants in eu member states, while there is open opposition to the moscow gay pride march taking place this year again. what measures will the council take to ensure that member states' authorities effectively protect participants? how would any incident of intolerance of the lgbt community affect the council's relationship with other governments?
those are indeed fine sentiments, but what i am interested in is whether we are translating the sentiments into action. we have eu member states not only banning gay pride marches in the case of poland, getting a condemnation from the european court of human rights; now we have the vilnius authorities saying that the eu equal opportunities bus cannot be received in the city. surely this is a matter of breach of article 6 of the eu treaty on human rights and article 13 of the ec treaty on non-discrimination. what is the council and the presidency saying to the governments of poland and lithuania and other eu countries which are not respecting equality law? is vilnius the right place to locate the gender institute in the light of these very disturbing tendencies in that city?
question no 7 by bernd posselt (h-0287/07) subject: human rights in chechnya president putin has appointed mr kadyrov as chechen president, although the chechens were unable to vote, and while aware of the fact that kadyrov is described by independent human rights organisations as a commander of death squads. how does the council assess the situation in chechnya, and what steps is it taking to restore democracy, the rule of law and human rights in that country?
question no 8 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0291/07) subject: tariffs on light bulbs will the presidency-in-office be actively seeking agreement to reduce, or ideally remove, the import tariffs on energy-efficient light bulbs from china which come up for review this october? what is the council's assessment of the cost-benefit implications for eu consumers if these tariffs were to be withdrawn? specifically which member states currently oppose such tariff withdrawal?
well that was a most diplomatically crafted answer, but perhaps i could try again in a slightly different context. i see announced in the paper today that a certain food processing company is now asking for protection against imports of sweetcorn from thailand. is the council – not the commission – concerned at the growing tide of protectionism coming up from fellow member states and is the council under your presidency going to provide any leadership to combat this?
question no 9 by marie anne isler béguin (h-0294/07) subject: agreement on facilitation of the visa system for nationals of the russian federation the european union recently facilitated the visa system for nationals of the russian federation on the basis of the agreement reached at the st. petersburg summit in 2003. this means that residents of abkhazia and south ossetia, two secessionist regions of georgia not recognised by the international community, will be able to benefit from this new visa system since they all hold russian passports. no such agreement exists with georgia, making russian nationality appear more advantageous for people in those two separatist regions and further distancing them from the other parts of georgia. given that the european union is pursuing a peaceful settlement to the conflicts in abkhazia and south ossetia and working for their rapprochement with georgia, what will it do to remedy this situation? are there any plans to enter into negotiations in the near future on a similar agreement with georgia in order to grant the peoples of the southern caucasus the same rights?
thank you, president-in-office and thank you all for helping us get through more questions than i anticipated. questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.05 and resumed at 21.00)
the next item is the report by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the verification of the credentials of mr beniamino donnici (a6-0198/2007).
the rights of our colleagues must be protected first, and then the rights of the european parliament. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by adam gierek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on putting knowledge into practice: a broad-based innovation strategy for europe [2006/2274(ini)] (a6-0159/2007).
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, this report contains a long list of ways in which to encourage innovation, many of which are valuable. but i cannot reiterate too strongly that easy access – and i do not just mean simpler or less complicated access – to innovation programmes and ventures for smaller businesses is imperative and a lot of work remains to be done in that sphere. i am pleased that the report includes several of the suggestions from the committee on economic and monetary affairs, in particular the one emphasising that the 3% of gdp target for r&d expenditure should be a minimum. i am also pleased that it welcomes the proposal for a risk-sharing finance facility and recognises the problems associated with protecting innovation in services, most notably smaller businesses’ difficulties with trade secrets and confidentiality agreements, which can hinder their ability to raise finance. it is clearly true that intellectual property is intimately related to innovation. however, i am sorry to see statements in the report that are pre-emptive of the work that is going on within the commission under the auspices of commissioner mccreevy on various ways to improve the patent system. the approach of that work is pragmatic and constructive and may offer better solutions, for example, than trying to integrate the european patent office into the community, which is by no means a simple solution, nor most likely to resolve most of the outstanding problems. it is certainly not something that could be achieved rapidly. innovation, intellectual property and competitiveness are part of globalisation, where international norms are important. this means an outward-looking international approach is essential, and i welcome recognition of that with regard to standards. i caution against being too introspective with regard to patents. the victim is eventually competitiveness.
i now call mr van nistelrooij. are you, by any chance, related to the footballer?
rapporteur. – madam president, i am sorry to tell you this is going to be a tale of woe, of unhappiness and of problems for europe, because organised crime is growing in every field, it is hidden and we do not have a full picture. it is based in states outside the eu, mostly, where government is weak and therefore there is very little action to stop the gangs and the criminals who are working in an organised way. i am referring to drugs like heroin and cocaine, which are brought in from different parts of the world; to ecstasy, which is exported from europe to different parts of the world; to illegal immigrants, who are brought in from asia and africa without proper controls; to counterfeit goods of every imaginable kind, some just simple toys or music cds but also some things like medicines, which are deeply serious and life-threatening; and to crime on the internet – the theft of money and identity. in every area, crime is growing and in every area we each have, maybe, some small experience. every industry is aware of the problems in its own sector, but it keeps the statistics hidden because it does not want to damage public confidence. if a bag manufacturer says, ‘be careful about buying my beautiful leather bag because it may be a fake from the far east or elsewhere,’ they damage their prospects. so, nobody tells the public what is really going on. some organised gangs are ethnic families working very well in a tightly-knit way; some are now organised like very efficient, very big multinational corporations – this week i was even given an organisational chart for an organised criminal gang! they cross the borders inside our union with total ease and without any difficulty at all. here is the problem: our police cannot cross any borders. so, the criminals are going wherever they like, doing whatever they do, but our police are restricted to their own regions or their own member states and therefore are deeply handicapped and cannot fight the criminals on equal terms. what do individual police officers do if there is a problem across the border? do they go to a central point and get contact details from the telephone directory? there is no directory. there is no facility for a police officer in any one country to find a telephone number or an e-mail address for an appropriate contact in another member state. it is unbelievable – a total lack of cooperation. the reason for this is the lack of mutual trust and understanding, meaning that, traditionally, we do not want to give foreigners our information or reveal the source of our information, because that would give away too many secrets. we do not trust each other inside europe. the gangs trust each other beautifully and so they are winning hands down. it is not all woe. the americans, with their open borders between states, found exactly the same problem in the 1930s. you probably saw the film bonnie and clyde. they robbed banks, took the money across a state border and the police could not follow them. the americans invented the fbi with powers to cross borders, and i suspect that is the stage we have now reached in europe. we need a law enforcement agency that can pursue criminals across frontiers. the public will be very sceptical; the national leaders say nothing about it, but i think we have reached that point and we have to do something about it. today, however, on this side of the atlantic, in the european union, there are no statistics to tell the public the scale of the problem. each of the 27 member states collects statistics in its own different way. there are no comparative eu statistics, so we hope that the commission is working in that direction to start that happening in a few years’ time. we have no idea, no clear picture, no information for the public, no democratic control, because this comes under the third pillar and is therefore controlled by the national governments, who do very little because they do not feel any pressure from the public to take any action. the only way that we will get a change, i fear, is if there is a dramatic shock, something like 9/11 in europe. something so bad that the public says, ‘how was this allowed to happen? how did the criminal gangs get away with this for so long when there was so much inactivity in 27 national capitals?’ but, if the criminals are smart – and they are very smart – they will never come up above the horizon. they will never commit a 9/11 and they will just go on eating into our society, feeding off us, weakening us, taking away jobs and, basically, weakening the whole union. we really need action, and i hope parliament will support this report and push the ministers into taking some decisions.
madam president, i want to focus on something we might all take for granted, namely that in the eu one would expect every member of any form of government in the eu to wholeheartedly support the europe-wide fight against organised crime and terrorism. considering the antecedents of some of those recently admitted into the new government in my country, northern ireland, the irony of the welcome call in this report for the council of ministers to monitor the governmental activities of institutions at regional level whose members include political figures with links to criminal organisations is not lost upon me, especially in a week in which the deputy first minister in my country, martin mcguinness, protested at the use of the european arrest warrant to seek the extradition to germany of a person wanted in connection with an ira bombing charge, and during a week in which his policing spokesman condemned arrests in northern ireland in an organised crime investigation in which a leading irish republican figure has now been charged. if you genuinely support the rule of law, then you do not attack and protest against the means of securing international justice and you do not protest against operations attacking organised crime. but if shamefully, as in northern ireland, you are a sinn féin minister, then your first loyalty is still not to the rule of law, but to protecting the interests of the republican movement. little wonder some of us still regard sinn féin as unfit for government.
madam president, consolidation of 21 regulations on sector-specific common market organisations into a single regulation which combines all sectors as a simplification step is welcome. but it is the impact delivered on the ground that really matters. simplification must translate into noticeable improvements in terms of a lesser bureaucratic burden for the agri-food sector right across the member states. if i have one major concern: we must not denude the new management committee – or committees, if it be that – of the valuable expertise which existed on the outgoing sectoral management committees. a super cmo which, on the face of it, ticks the boxes of regulation reduction but which diminishes expert sectoral input would only be a short-term gain. a triumph of bureaucrats over experts from the sectors is not a good deal. sectoral expertise has been valuable and must be preserved. thus, i think we need to hear more from the commission in terms of assurances and indications as to how sectoral expertise will, in fact, be retained, utilised and respected.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. he is a very experienced member of this house and i would have expected nothing less from him. there is no doubt that the need to streamline decision-making and removing red tape from the common agricultural policy is a primacy of importance. it is my view that if we have to harmonise – and we must have harmonisation – we should always harmonise up to the best possible standard. it is clear that better regulation can be achieved. i do not want more and more civil servants – let me make that very clear – either in brussels or in member states making more difficulties for the farmers trying to do their job on the ground, creating and developing more problems than we would like to solve. yes, we need better regulation, but we also need more transparency. i share mr busk’s view on the need to keep intervention for pig meat, because this sector does – as we have experienced on numerous occasions – from time to time go into over-production, which is very difficult to control. i believe that, for short periods, we require support in that sector. i also believe that it would be going much too far, in the short term, to reduce the advisory committees, as we require a high degree of expertise on what can be extremely delicate issues. i would give qualified support to the commission to consolidate the existing 21 regulations. it is my belief that we need less regulation, not more. this is a welcome start, and i trust we can look forward to the health check to bring forward even more deregulation. let us destroy red tape in the common agricultural policy forever.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, this was a very interesting discussion, i should like to thank you very much for it. first of all, let me recall that this exercise is indeed about simplification and not about another reform of the cap or a redistribution of aid as some have feared. i think it also revealed that there are quite a few points which i can accept or where i am certain that acceptable solutions will eventually be found, notably on the carcass classification, the reference to potato starch quotas and also a clause giving a further assurance that the status quo for producer and inter-branch organisations is maintained. as far as the fruit and vegetable and wine sectors are concerned, and their inclusion in the single cmo from the outset and as regards the kind of management committee, i have already made my point. in some cases the report is asking to go beyond the status quo of what we have today. i do not think we should introduce any such amendments on this occasion as that would change the character of the exercise. concerning the set-up of the management committee – a matter raised by mr busk – organising four subsections would go against the idea of a single cmo and make the new committee unnecessarily inflexible. but we can assure you that the commission is determined to organise the meetings of the single committee in such a way as to include the necessary expertise and take account of the specificities of the sectors concerned. let me also make very clear that with regard to the role of the european parliament, technical decisions and market management decisions need to be decided at commission level. in no way is the commission receiving powers to amend substantive or any other policy decisions. therefore parliament is not being bypassed. the commission’s powers will be restricted to implementing rules. i can assure you of that. with regard to pigmeat, i am not so certain why an instrument that has not been used in more than 30 years should still be considered as a basic policy decision that needs to be maintained. in concluding, let me stress once again in answer to the points raised regarding the complexity and the bureaucracy of the cap, this is just a first step. others will follow.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, the commission has followed with great interest the debate in the committee on agriculture and rural development on mr glattfelder’s report. we are dealing with a sensitive issue here. doing away with an instrument such as maize intervention, as the commission has proposed, is never easy. but in this case it is necessary and the evidence shows that we are faced with a structural problem with maize intervention. it is no longer a safety net but has become a real market outlet. in one member state about one third of the harvest in 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 was offered to intervention. farmers are producing directly for intervention. is this normal at a time where market prices are at a normal level? eu maize intervention stocks doubled from 2003-2004 to 2004-2005 from 2.8 million tonnes to 5.6 million tonnes. if this growth continues, the european union will have 15.6 million tonnes in its stocks by 2013. this is hardly a development the commission wants to see at a time when the cap reforms are doing away with stocks in other commodities. the report suggests that the commission’s proposal is inconsistent with the principle of legitimate expectations, is founded on incorrect market estimates and would have negative effects on cereal markets. i would like to explain why the commission does not share these views, beginning with the legitimate expectations. farmers’ sowing decisions are based on a series of considerations and mainly the marketability of their crop. the commission’s proposal does not interfere with the broad range of potential commercial outlets for maize. market and income stability are not threatened in any way and the legitimate expectations of farmers are fully preserved. on the economics of the proposal, i would stress that commission’s estimates are based on long-term trends. forecasts by independent research institutes support the commission’s own analysis that maintaining the status quo is simply not sustainable. the lack of intervention offers during the ongoing campaign and the resale of intervention stocks in the internal market cannot be presented as conclusive evidence that the market has found a new balance. indeed, this is far from the case and the economics of maize production indicate that with price levels back to normal maize will once again be offered massively to intervention in some member states. the commission sees from this that there is a need to act. we cannot defend a simple status quo. it is not in the interests of the agricultural sector to insist on a scheme that so clearly has departed from its original objective. we wanted to act quickly and we proposed abolishing the scheme immediately, but we realise that this would create some difficulties. we are therefore prepared to discuss a phased reduction of the maize intervention scheme. this could be done over a period of two years and then we would have the opportunity to assess and discuss the future of the scheme in the context of the health check. commissioner fischer boel is prepared to have such a discussion. but for the parliament simply to refuse any considerations on altering the maize intervention scheme, as proposed by mr glattfelder, is not acceptable to the commission. we therefore sincerely hope that the european parliament will not support the recommendation to reject the commission’s proposal and will instead engage in a debate on how to design a phased reduction of the unsustainable maize intervention scheme.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like first of all to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and express the view that i hold quite strongly that i can see his difficulty, given the member state he comes from. i believe that if there is to be a change in policy it has to be phased in over a period, regardless of what policy it is, to allow for production to adapt to change. when i became a member of this parliament – a number of years ago now – we had butter mountains, we had milk lakes, we had cold stores bursting at the seams with beef. and now to a large extent all this is behind us. we have come through many reforms of the common agricultural policy that have taken place over the years, from macsharry to agenda 2000 to the mid-term review, and now – the commissioner is not with us tonight and i know why – we await the proposals for the health check. we are living in a world of changing markets and it can be very difficult to speculate upon what future prices may be at any particular time. you only have to look at the present world prices for milk to see the change that can occur in a very short period of time. intervention can be nothing but a short-term solution for farmers because in the long term they will achieve better returns from the market. i believe the new member states must look in the long term to other solutions for maize, rather than simply for food. there is an alternative use where it can be put to even greater good for everyone. i believe the new member states should investigate the alternatives and we should support them in this. in the long term they will be more rewarding than continuing in intervention. there must be some degree of compromise in this particular area between the commission, the council and parliament. i believe that the four compromise amendments recognising the problem of the new member states represent the best way to move forward.
madam president, on a point of order, under our rules of procedure, annex i, article 2, any member who has not submitted a declaration of interests has to be reminded of this fact by the president. if he or she continues to fail to do so, this fact is published in the minutes. it is then stated that, if the member continues to refuse to submit the declaration, the president shall take action in accordance with rule 147 to suspend the member concerned. i see from the minutes of the sitting on monday that mr herrero-tejedor and mr nattrass, from the uk independence party, have still failed to complete their declaration of interests. it is now several months in a row that they have been named and shamed in the minutes and i would urge the president to take action appropriate to the situation. it undermines the reputation and the credibility of this house.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am honoured to present the committee on foreign affairs report entitled ‘kashmir: present situation and future prospects’. this report correctly contrasts the situation between the world’s largest secular democracy which has devolved structures at all levels – india, including jammu and kashmir – and pakistan, which still lacks full implementation of democracy in azad jammu and kashmir and has yet to take steps towards democracy in gilgit and baltistan. it also highlights the fact that there is considerable evidence that over many years pakistan has provided kashmiri militants with training, weapons, funding and sanctuary and has encouraged militants to commit atrocities on the indian-administered side. it takes a firm line on human rights abuses in jammu and kashmir. it is also constructive as it highlights the common heritage shared by india and pakistan, exemplified in the ancient culture of jammu and kashmir, and recognises and values the pluralism, multiculturalism and multi-faith nature and secular traditions of the peoples of jammu and kashmir, which have been kept alive in the indian part of jammu and kashmir. this is an enlightened and balanced report, which denounces terrorism and those who support terrorism; it promotes a vision of peace, coexistence, friendship and economic integration and commerce between peoples on both sides of the border and in gilgit and baltistan along the lines of the european union model. i urge this house to adopt it in its entirety, with certain amendments, so that an unambiguous message is sent to the disturbers of peace in that part of the world that the international community will not tolerate extremism or terrorism any more and that we respect and uphold the rights and ethnicity of the kashmiri people. i have with me a strong statement – of this morning – by mohtarma benazir bhutto, chairperson of the pakistan people’s party, in which she welcomes this report for drawing attention to the right of self-determination of the kashmiri people; for reaffirming the eu’s commitment to the settlement of dispute by peaceful means; for taking note of the impact of the earthquake and urging the european union to help and support the kashmiris; for supporting the role of the composite peace process in moving towards a durable settlement for the kashmiris based on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights; for urging the indian and pakistan governments to facilitate the ceasefire on the line of control by calling further on militant armed groups to enrol in a disarmament, demobilisation and rehabilitation process; for encouraging the pakistan government to transform the ceasefire in place in siachin since 2003 into a lasting peace agreement; for urging both governments to allow international human rights organisations immediate and unrestricted access to all parts of the former princely state in order to investigate the human rights situation there; for calling on the indian government to put an end to all practices of extrajudicial killings, ‘disappearances’, torture and arbitrary detentions in jammu and kashmir; for calling on the indian and pakistani authorities to ease restrictions on travel between srinagar and muzaffarabad; for urging pakistan to revisit its concepts of fundamental rights of freedom of expression, freedom of association, freedom of religious practices in azad jammu and kashmir and gilgit and baltistan; for calling for the first-ever elections to be held in gilgit and baltistan and for seeking higher democratic representation in the northern areas. she firmly supports this report. i am proud to inform the house that imran khan mp, former captain of the pakistan cricket team and now head of his political party tehreek-e-insaaf, today pledged his full support for this report. the plight of the kashmiri people has been of concern to the international community for nearly 60 years. the european union strongly supports regional integration, trade liberalisation and economic cooperation. the european parliament is keenly interested in all aspects of the situation. let me draw your attention to the hundreds of young people who demonstrated in favour of this report, calling for the democratic freedoms that we recommend. they were beaten up by the police, their banners and petitions to the un were destroyed. they demonstrated again. two hundred of their relatives were kidnapped and have not been heard of since. subsequently, many thousands of citizens of azad jammu and kashmir have held meetings and pledged their full support for the report. over the border in jammu and kashmir, india continues to be criticised for her large military presence. the report is strong on human rights in jammu and kashmir, as in the other areas. in gilgit and baltistan, the people are kept in poverty, illiteracy and backwardness. the report makes clear its support for the current peace process. it recognises the ancient and unique heritage of the kashmiri people. it reflects many principles of the european union. i earnestly hope that this house will support the report as wholeheartedly during the vote today as it was supported by the committee on foreign affairs.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the tragic and bloody dispute over the beautiful himalayan territory of the former princely state of kashmir between the two great south-asian countries of india and pakistan is one of the oldest in the world, going right back to un security council resolutions 39 and 47 of 1948. i strongly support the nicholson report, and i congratulate the rapporteur on its content and quality, after considerable rebalancing during the committee stage, both in tone and in terms of its approach. the report is accurate and primarily recognises that current ongoing bilateral confidence-building talks between the indian and pakistani governments remain the best strategy to achieve a just and enduring peace between these two nuclear-armed states. my british colleague, mr bushill-matthews, who alone voted against it in the committee on foreign affairs, informs me that he will now be supporting the report, which indicates how it has progressed during its various stages. mercifully, since the agreed ceasefire on 25 november 2003, we are now witnessing one of the most peaceful periods in terms of military action since the 1971 indo-pakistan war: a ceasefire that has survived serious provocations to the government of india, including the mumbai terrorist bombings. nevertheless, kashmiri pandits still continue to claim that cross-border infiltrating terrorists are attempting a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the local hindu population, albeit it on a vastly reduced scale. similarly, the report rightly calls for restraint by the indian military, with full respect by the security forces for human rights, the wellbeing of civilian populations and observance of issued court orders. the report highlights the lack of genuine democracy in azad kashmir and, in particular, for the first time, the plight of the inhabitants of gilgit-baltistan. there are also general concerns expressed in ajk over a number of issues, including women’s rights and religious minority rights. i, and many colleagues, warmly welcomed in 2005 the launching of a bus service across the line of control between srinagar and muzaffarabad allowing divided families to be reunited after nearly 60 years, and it is my hope that, eventually, the borders, including the line of control, will be just a line on the map and become increasingly irrelevant. we in the eu have already proved this with our four freedoms of movement of people, goods, services and capital. a similar future vision of a south-asian economic community by 2025 will require free trade across the line of control. both india and pakistan, much to their credit, cooperated positively after the october kashmir earthquake to provide humanitarian aid to thousands of victims and displaced people. but much remains to be done to resettle the displaced populations permanently. the eu’s role, in my opinion, is to support a peaceful settlement of the problem over the former princely state, with the eu willing to act as an honest broker for peace, but only if both sovereign governments ask for our help, as, ultimately, we regard the kashmir dispute as a bilateral matter. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to repeat my appeal to all parties that support the militants waging a violent jihad to stop their activities immediately.
madam president, i warmly welcome this debate this morning. it is the culmination of a long process which started in march 2000 when the house voted overwhelmingly for a factual report on the question of kashmir. it has thus become not just a british problem, but is seen increasingly as a european one, as our debate this morning shows. we have had vigorous discussions in committee and we now have a more balanced report than when we started out this morning. some 450 amendments have been tabled, around 180 of those amendments have now been included in this document and so there has been a substantial revision. there are still some areas where i remain unhappy, in particular regarding amendment 21 which refers to the question of machine-readable pakistan passports. i understand there is no such concern in ajk. we have to be careful to keep the report factual. there are, however, three amendments in particular to which i would like to draw colleagues’ attention and which i shall be supporting. the first is tabled by mr tannock on behalf of my group – and i thank him for having done so – where in order to create an atmosphere of confidence and goodwill it is vital to remove all obstructions and hindrances for all kashmiris to travel freely in the entire state of jammu and kashmir. secondly, this particularly relates to the financial aspects of the earthquake. we all know what terrible suffering there was. there has been a request for further funds from the government of azad kashmir, but i understand that they have not yet had a full reply, therefore amendment 41 is asking for a clear reply from the commission so that we know what we have to do in budgetary terms. the last aspect refers to demilitarisation and that is why we have tabled amendment 55 together with mrs lambert. the article in the economist of 7 april was very clear and i commend it to the house. it says that there are three fundamental reasons why we should now be pressing for demilitarisation. first, the present numbers are not needed. we now have a process of nearly three years of a ceasefire and the dangers of militancy have significantly decreased. second, this would be hugely popular in kashmir where, to quote from the economist, there is an alienation ‘from indian rule which runs deep, the withdrawal of the army would be widely seen not as a removal of a protective shield but as a lifting of an oppressive curse’. third, withdrawing troops from kashmir would be a great boost to the painstaking rapprochement between india and pakistan. in conclusion, i would like to draw attention, as one or two other colleagues have done, to the work of my colleague mr bushill-matthews. i will be voting in favour of this report because it has a positive message of shining a light on the problems which are faced on a daily basis by the people of jammu and kashmir. we should keep that spotlight shining brightly and we should associate everybody possible with the process to find a resolution to the problem for the kashmiri people.
madam president, the european union’s positive role in dealing with any conflict in the world and our role in relation to kashmir should be to support peace processes and to uphold international law. our own labour amendments to this report concentrated on advancing the withdrawal of troops on both sides, extending development aid, encouraging the practical involvement of the kashmiri people themselves: balanced, constructive, diplomatic in our approach. when i was in kashmir in march at the same time as the commissioner, i saw an ajk more open than ever before; the indians willing to talk with the secessionists and both governments optimistic about their composite dialogue and when that bomb on a train from new delhi to lahore killed 68 people in february, the politics of blame was replaced by a mutual solidarity to defeat the terrorists who had planted it. however, the support the liberal democrat rapporteur claims for her report this morning is possible only because at parliamentary committee level we defeated her proposals to cut off trade relations with one side, not the other; to provide economic aid on one side only; to overturn the un resolution in favour of self-determination; and, most offensive of all, to score political points about the sixth worst earthquake in the history of humanity. i note today the liberal democrat amendment 58 to blame one side for preventing a plebiscite and the conservative amendment 5 to resist a plebiscite in the future. labour and socialist meps will oppose both. in this report, i regret to say we have seen a rapporteur who claimed to uphold the principle of primum non nocere – do no harm – yet she has done only harm. i caution others in this debate and in our vote: do not speak today for india or for pakistan; speak for europe, for peace and for human rights and you will do a greater service for the people of kashmir and for the honour of this parliament.
madam president, i welcome the commissioner’s comments. in october 2005 the catastrophic earthquake opened the eyes of the world to the desperate plight of the kashmiri people. this tragedy offered india and pakistan a window of opportunity to make peace out of disaster. it also gave the international community the prospect of engaging in a previously closed region. the council has stressed that india and pakistan must find a durable settlement for jammu and kashmir which takes into account the wishes of all the people of kashmir. this is a just and responsible approach and one which this house must follow if it is to contribute constructively to the kashmir debate. as liberals, whose forefathers shaped the concept, my group’s passion must be self-determination, self-determination and self-determination. it is an absolute right enshrined by the un and respected and protected by the european union. it is a democratic process that as a house we have a duty to support. the eu must support the positive ideas now coming forward – systems of self-governance, making borders irrelevant, and joint management across the line of control. it is not for us to take any options off the table. we must, however, insist that they are explored through full consultation with the kashmiris and, if the conditions are right, we must support their desire to determine their destiny through a democratic plebiscite. with a history of human rights abuses, a sustainable solution is impossible without ending impunity and ensuring that human rights are the building blocks of peace. india and pakistan are now both members of the un human rights council. with membership comes a responsibility to lead. women and children have born the brunt of the conflict and the earthquake. women have been widowed and children left orphaned. all are struggling to rebuild their lives. the eu, through its trade and economic relations with both india and pakistan, must protect the most vulnerable in the short term and secure their livelihoods in the long term. the greatest tragedy of the earthquake was the loss of a whole generation of kashmiris. we must mourn their deaths. for those who remain, our core goals must be peace, justice and self-determination for the generation of kashmiris to come.
madam president, i would agree with everything that my colleague, mr karim, has just said and, in particular, that self-determination is of crucial importance – even more so for peoples divided by history. we would agree that the conditions for a plebiscite are not met at present, but they should not be set aside. hence our amendments 18 and 56, tabled with colleagues from alde group, are of crucial importance for us. this conflict in kashmir has brought the world nearer to nuclear conflict than anything else since the 1960s. therefore, it is hugely important to all of us in this house. whether our countries have a historical involvement or not, the eu definitely has an interest. we welcome the confidence-building measures. the environment is of common concern to peoples on whatever side of the line of control, and can be a valuable peace-builder. we need the normalisation of relations at every level, grass-roots to political, and that softening of the border as an interim measure.
madam president, i wish to congratulate baroness nicholson on her work on what has already become one of the most talked-about reports initiated by this house. when i led a delegation to pakistan last december, this report was raised with us almost everywhere, and, having followed the progress of the report closely, i do not underestimate the challenges there have been in bringing the basic facts about these issues into the open. i am sure that, in time, it will become an authoritative report on the issue. i, too, have visited one part of divided kashmir and empathise with the plight of the kashmiri people, especially following the tragic impact of the earthquake. this report has also brought out into the open for the first time the conditions prevailing, not only in kashmir but also in the northern areas. whilst in pakistan, i met many people who expressed a strong desire for greater democracy and a greater voice. therefore, i hope one outcome of this report will be more democracy and greater democratic structures, especially in gilgit and baltistan, in the near future. one of the issues that has most divided the members of this house has been the question of a plebiscite. however, i welcome the consensus that has now developed on this issue in the report, and it is important to remember that the un resolution that called for a plebiscite to be held clearly stated that it should happen only when the conditions have been met. it is therefore unfortunate that the conditions under which this might happen have not been met so far. having chaired the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia and the south asia association for regional cooperation, and now the delegation for relations with india, i recognise that this issue has hindered proper development between neighbouring countries and the region as a whole. therefore, i strongly welcome the confidence-building measures that both india and pakistan have committed themselves to in the past few years. i urge them to continue along this track with soft borders and more trade, because this has already paid dividends as regards regional prosperity, and i sincerely hope it will eventually lead to improvements on all fronts for the people of kashmir.
madam president, this report is about the present and future prospects for the kashmiri people and we must not lose sight of that. this report is not about india and it is not about pakistan. i am pleased that the report was amended substantially in committee. i have, however, sought to amend it further and many of the amendments tabled by my group – though not all – are the ones i hope you can vote for. amendment 18 calls for the kashmiri people to exercise their right to self-determination through a plebiscite in the future. this, to my mind, is the bottom line. i believe all people should have a right to determine their own destiny. this is what the kashmiri people have been calling for for many years. sixty years ago the resolutions were passed by the un and they still have not been brought into effect. how can we be so selective about which un resolutions we adhere to? i would like us, however, to go further and for any plebiscite to have the three options: governed by india, governed by pakistan or independence. hence amendment 57. another concern i have about this report, although it is now much better than it was, is that it seems to be concentrating a great deal on the shortcomings of the pakistan government within pakistan, rather than taking a balanced approach relating to both india and pakistan’s failures in jammu and kashmir generally. finally, we must build on the positive steps taken by both india and pakistan and not undermine them. however, no solution can be achieved without the kashmiri people having the final say themselves.
in writing. – kashmir has suffered more than its fair share of tragedy, the most recent being the devastating earthquake. sometimes out of tragedy comes hope, and so with the aftermath of the earthquake both india and pakistan showed a desire to cooperate to improve the lives of the kashmiri people. we must encourage all sides to continue with confidence measures and ‘softening’ the border. india must reduce the suffocating impact of its troops in kashmir and pakistan must continue to tackle terrorism. when the time is right the people of kashmir must be given a voice in determining their future.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, perhaps first we could send our good wishes to commissioner dimas and wish him a speedy recovery. secondly, let me say to my polish friends that this is not an issue which is getting at poland. there are many member states who have been subject to pressure from parliament and the commission when a development proposal is potentially damaging to the environment. i think in this case, though, we have a serious case which is going to be a test of will of the commission, of the policy and certainly of this parliament too. we have irreversible damage in prospect for the habitats of a large number of species from eagles to woodpeckers, to capercaillie, wolves and lynx. i welcome the commission taking the steps of going to the ecj and i certainly welcome the subsequent decision to seek a special procedure from the ecj to make an order urgently requiring poland to stop the works pending the proper full decision. that is sensible. the ecj president granted that on 18 april and i hope that is a very strong message to the polish authorities who are involved with this scheme. but regrettably, it appears that poland is ignoring that and proceeding, at least in part, with construction works for two of the projects in north-east poland. so my request to the commission is to insist that we look seriously at alternative routes, because we believe, and my committee believes, that there are alternatives which would be much better for the environment. we believe that they must be fully explored, they must use the strategic environmental assessment principles and that only if those are complied with should we agree to this road corridor proceeding. i hope the commission will take that message to her colleague. i hope it will make him better. it will certainly make it better for the polish environment if we comply with the rules.
the debate is closed. written statemens (rule 142)
mr president, could you make it entirely clear that it is rejected on the recommendation of the rapporteur, not the committee on agriculture and rural development. i make no further statement.
mr president, i rise under rule 3(3) of the rules of procedure to ask you to invoke your presidential powers, defined in rule 19, to declare inadmissible, and therefore to stop the vote on, the report by mr gargani (a6-0198/2007). this report is in contravention of the treaties and, in particular, of articles 12 and 13 of the 1976 act. it is, therefore, without legal basis, and i ask you to use your presidential powers to declare it inadmissible.
mr president, my group considers what the house has just done to be illegal, as i explained earlier. nonetheless, we accept the verdict of the house. as they sometimes say in my language, we look forward to seeing you in court! (laughter)
mr president, i would like to move an oral amendment to delete the two words ‘at present’ from the paragraph.
mr president, i understood that a request had been put in for an oral amendment by myself through the alde group secretariat. could you kindly check your notes?
in writing. i welcome the busk report which should lead to signifigant simplification of the common agricultural policy. while i want to see further reform of cap i accept the rapporteur's argument that this should not be by the "back door".
in writing. i voted for the glattfelder report on the common organisation of the market in cereals not because i entirely support its contents but because it is in line with cap reform. i also accepted as a compromise the phasing out of public interventions to support cereal crops.
in writing. i voted for the gierek report but against all amendments which could have led to reviving discussions on the computer implemented inventions directive. given the efforts to find a majority in the first place for this directive it would not have been helpful to reopen the debate.
in writing. i welcome the report by bill newton dunn on tackling organised crime. it is vital that the eu has the necessary tools to promote and strengthen a coordinated strategy to tackle organised crime. the roles of europol and eurojust need to be enhanced and the public need to be made more aware of the eu’s role in this matter.
in writing. i voted for the report on the fight against organised crime presented by bill newton dunn (alde, gb) because it will ensure that europol’s role as a criminal intelligence body is strengthened, allowing it to fulfil its task of providing member states with information and intelligence leading to more effective results in preventing and combating organised crime. the eu has always played an important role in the fight against organised crime and it is now necessary to provide the union with a more powerful and ambitious instrument to work more closely with member states to improve cooperation in order to combat organised crime more effectively.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party is pleased to have been able to inject a degree of balance and impartiality into this report, which was severely lacking in the first draft presented to committee. in relation to amendments 16 and 34, we express our deep concern regarding the suspension of the pakistan chief justice and subsequent unrest that has led to over 40 deaths. protecting the independence of the judiciary is of vital importance in a modern democratic society. however, referring to this case is inappropriate in a report dealing specifically with the kashmir dispute. with regards to combating terrorism, we have supported the more constructive and forward-looking language in amendments 55 and 56, which acknowledge that there has been progress in decreasing the levels of infiltration by militant groups, but that further action needs to be taken in parallel with meaningful demilitarisation. in voting for amendments 18 and 56, we reaffirm the right to self-determination for the kashmiri people, which can be expressed through a plebiscite when the conditions are right.
in writing. reluctantly, i voted for this report. i recognise that it is radically different from the one-sided version originally put before the foreign affairs committee and thank those involved for those changes. kashmir is a region divided by history and has become a cause of conflict, which has been perpetuated at times by government and militant action on both sides of the line of control. this is not simply an issue for governments but also for the kashmiri people. i regret that parliament did not vote to strengthen the commitment to the right of those people for self-determination through a plebiscite. i also regret that we did not strengthen our calls for the demilitarisation of the region. i recognise the role of insurgency but we must acknowledge that the indian side has one of the highest ratios of military and security personnel to the population of any part of the world. we call for confidence-building measures and greater democracy: democracy cannot flourish in such circumstances. so, i wish the final report had been stronger on these crucial areas but i also recognise that this version now has a political value in eu relations with the peoples concerned.
in writing. i voted for this report, which is more balanced than the text put to committee. i abstained on the amendment which expressed regret at the suspension of the chief justice of pakistan not because i disagree with the criticism but because i did not see it as relevant to this report. i voted for the amendment calling for a plebiscite at a future date because i believe that the people of kashmir should be in charge of their own destiny.
in writing. having visited kashmir and seen some of the devastating effects of the past violence but also having seen a people ready for peace, i support this report based on the importance it has for the way the european union seeks, by offering best practice measures and experience, to show other countries how an economic zone can develop peace and prosperity in regions that have a history of war. i herald the confidence-building measures proposed in this report, in particular the joint monitoring cell for the sharing of data on seismic activity to provide early warning against possible earthquakes. i also see the importance of community development measures that will stimulate the economy and activate untapped economic resources in the region. furthermore, i believe it is of utmost importance that the region of ajk has proper representation in the pakistani government, which it does not yet have.
in writing. ukip deplores the behaviour of russia towards estonia, but cannot vote in favour of any resolution from the eu parliament whose legitimacy we do not recognise.
in writing. i supported the resolution on estonia, which showed solidarity with the country in the face of interference by the russian authorities in the internal affairs of estonia. in particular, i support the call on the russian government to respect the vienna convention on the protection of diplomats.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, dictatorships are not established overnight. they take form through a thousand small subversions of the democratic order – the targeting of opposition leaders, the subversion of the electoral commission, the vitiation of the judiciary, the dissolution of the national assembly and, not least, the silencing of independent media. hugo chávez’s venezuela has something of the feel of eastern europe in the late 1940s. there are still elections, there are still opposition parties, there are still free newspapers, but the direction is unmistakable. true, president chávez has not annulled the electoral process, but then there were elections every four years in the comecon states throughout the cold war. there are elections today in most of mr chávez’s closest allies – iran, byelorussia, zimbabwe – it is simply that opponents of the regime find it hard to contest those elections, and that is why we should be so alarmed by the harassment and expropriation of mr chávez’s critics. venezuela is not cuba, at least not yet, but the complacency exhibited by some in this house is at best naive, and at worst shameful. we are witnessing the slow asphyxiation of a once open and liberal polity. if we do nothing else, for heaven’s sake, let us at least register our disapprobation!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is true that president chávez’s economic and social policies are posing a big challenge to powerful interests and there may well be, as mr catania maintains, a campaign to delegitimise his government. however, we are not here to discuss the rights and wrongs of his socio-economic policies or indeed the internal politics of venezuela. this motion for a resolution is an expression of worry about a suppression of pluralism and dissent, and that is our business. it is a shame if the elevation of president chávez to an icon of anti-globalisation and anti-capitalism blinds some in this house to the drift towards an authoritarian and anti-democratic system. i find myself in rather rare agreement with mr hannan. this has happened to the mayor of my city, london, mr livingstone, who belongs to the labour party. a year ago he said: ‘for many years people have demanded that social progress and democracy go hand in hand, and that is exactly what is now taking place in venezuela. ... with chávez the choice is not difficult at all. he is both carrying out a progressive programme and doing so through the mandate of the ballot box.’ it is true, as mr hannan has said, that there are still elections, but there is an undoubted drift towards autocracy and a suppression of opinions that do not fit with the regime. we had some amusement when six months ago mr livingstone went 5000 miles to try to see president chávez but unfortunately got stranded in cuba because the president could not find the time to see him. we had a laugh about that. however, it is quite serious when somebody who is democratically elected as the mayor of, i would say, europe’s premier city, finds himself wishing to cosy up to someone who is not only populist but increasingly authoritarian. it is because there are breaches of human rights in venezuela that we have this motion for a resolution.
mr president, on a point of order, you said that the conference of presidents had decided this under the rules of procedure. could you tell me under which rule they were enabled to extend this item to have four rather than three debates?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the resolution talks about the wolfowitz affair in terms of ‘the world bank’s failure to live up to the globally shared standards of transparency and democracy’. what utter humbug! any standards of transparency and democracy in the world are practised on a strictly limited basis, and the european union hardly sets an example. mr wolfowitz has been hounded out of office by those opposed to his anti-corruption agenda. the worst thing that the executive directors of the bank could find to say against him was that ‘a number of mistakes were made’. if mr wolfowitz’s worst offence was giving his girlfriend a job, then it would hardly qualify as a minor error of judgement compared to the legendary levels of nepotism and corruption that the european union has been guilty of over the years and the usual levels of corruption associated with the world bank. mr wolfowitz wanted to clean it up and now he will not be able to, but it is an ill wind that cannot be used by the european union to its advantage. this brings me to paragraph 6 of the resolution that calls for the commission to have observer status at the bank and for it to attend and intervene at certain councils. the key phrase here is ‘pending legal personality for the union’. that legal personality depends on the ratification of the european constitution that the european union intends to stuff down the throats of the peoples of europe whether they want it or not. president bush should nominate a new head of the world bank whose girlfriend or boyfriend already has a job and who will either clean it up or close it down, and he should make sure that the european union is let nowhere near it in the meantime!
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group strongly supports the brok/barón crespo report and welcomes the clear, strong statements from the council and the commission this afternoon. we look forward to playing a part in supporting the intergovernmental conference that proceeds sharply to renegotiating and repackaging the constitutional treaty with the aim of substantively improving it. m. sarkozy brings a refreshing pragmatism to french european policy, and i trust that mr brown will replicate m. sarkozy’s performance when he becomes prime minister of the united kingdom. the public mood is turning, especially in the netherlands and poland, where we can see a growing realisation that it is not in the interests of those countries to be inside a union that is too feeble to act. in conclusion, i think it is possible to draw two principal thoughts from the period of reflection. the first is that we have to strengthen democracy inside the european institutions in brussels and between the authorities here and national, regional and local governments. the second is that we should devise cleverer and more flexible ways to change the treaties in future. countries that still wish to refuse the package may have the legal veto, but they will not have the moral and political authority to block progress for everyone else.
madam president, ‘no’ is really not a difficult word to understand. the continuing failure to accept the political reality of rejection is epitomised by paragraph 3 of this report. there it notes the concerns expressed by the french and dutch people. france and the netherlands did not express concern; they expressed rejection. it is the refusal to face that reality that has embedded the eu in the rut of the past two years. this report will do nothing to move us on because it still insists on everything which has been rejected, namely the apparatus of statehood for the eu and further diminution in national powers and vetoes. it is those who cannot accept that the constitution has floundered who are pushing towards a two-speed europe. if that is what you must have, then go for it. just leave out of it those states that still want real national control and power. and, even as a quid pro quo, let us repatriate real powers, let us bring them back from brussels. then those who want more europe can have it, and those who want less can have that. but you cannot foist on us all a constitution already rejected, no matter how you might disguise or repackage it.
mr president, mr allister has just said that the word ‘no’ is not difficult to understand, but equally the word ‘yes’ is not difficult to understand. we are in a situation where a large majority of member states have said yes. two have said no, some have a few reservations, but all 27 have agreed to embark on a process of trying to bridge that gap, of trying to find a solution capable of ratification by all 27. this report, which i commend and my group will be supporting, endorses that attempt. we think it is right to make an attempt to bridge that gap and to find a solution capable of ratification by all 27. this parliament, elected by the citizens of the european union, approved the constitutional treaty in adopting by an overwhelming majority the report by mr méndez de vigo and myself two years ago. so it is quite natural that we side with the 22 member states who wish to keep the text as intact as possible. i think that is quite logical. this parliament would prefer changes of form to sacrificing the content. it would prefer to relinquish the symbols rather than the substance. that is clear and that will no doubt be part of the solution, but it is unlikely to be enough. the issues of the substance of the constitution will have to be addressed in some cases, perhaps to improve, extend or revise it. but it is essential that we try to keep those practical reforms in the constitutional treaty, and it is a collection of very practical reforms – those reforms that make the eu capable of functioning as it continues to enlarge and that improve its democratic accountability. those are essential and must be kept. the constitutional treaty contains such a package of reforms. let us do our utmost to salvage as many of those reforms as possible.
mr president, yesterday i met a delegation of israeli citizens from sderot who related to me first-hand the terror in their civilian population from 300 random qassam rocket attacks launched at them from hamas-controlled sites in gaza, which clearly constitutes a war crime in international law, with two dead and many injured to date. last week 33 people were detained by the idf in the west bank, including the palestinian education minister nasser al-shaer, allegedly for their overt support for these rocket attacks. the detention of an education minister is interesting as it tends to support the repeated allegations in this house that the palestinian textbooks and school curriculum supported for years by eu funds are still aimed at fomenting a climate of hatred and distrust for israel and a glorification of terrorist violence. many of the hamas ministerial components of the unity government – like the hamas 1988 charter inspired by egypt’s muslim brotherhood – still believe strongly that the state of israel has no right to exist, that all terrorist violence is justified through so-called armed struggle, and that they are not bound by previous plo-signed international agreements. therefore, in my view at present the pa unity government clearly does not comply with the quartet criteria, and the eu must not yet lift the ban on hamas as a designated terrorist organisation, or directly fund the pa government. neither should the tim be abandoned for the delivery of humanitarian aid, which now totals over eur 500 million yearly and has actually risen over the last three years, contrary to popular opinion. i too support the arab league’s new proposals for a negotiated solution, although the right of return is totally unrealistic. but again, and curiously, hamas rejects their proposals for israel’s recognition. some hardliners on all sides reject peace or a two-state solution, but on the 40th anniversary of the six-day war it is clear that this is the only viable long-term solution for a lasting peace in the region. but first the pa must ensure law and order on its territory and stop the dissent into virtual hamas-fatah civil war in gaza, which is also being stirred up in lebanon. once again i would like to call upon the house and the international community to put pressure on all those responsible for the release of the bbc reporter alan johnston, who we now know is alive and well, and the kidnapped soldier corporal shalit. this will create a climate conducive to restarting the vital roadmap for peace talks.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i think many of the recent incidents and the shocking pictures that we have seen of a small boat towing people in its net, are the result – as we have been hearing – of a catalogue of failures, many of them absolutely avoidable with a bit of forward planning. we assume that the next justice and home affairs council will be doing some of that. it would have been avoidable if member states had delivered on their promises regarding logistical and other support for frontex and other measures promised in the wake of the experience in the canaries, lampedusa, malta, cyprus, etc. it would have been avoidable, as commissioner frattini said, if member states had prepared a plan b for when libya fails to carry out its obligations. indeed, it appears that libya has not clearly defined its maritime rescue area, so why are we negotiating in an emergency when we know there is already disagreement and we could have planned ahead? i agree with mrs roure: we need to beware of the agreements we negotiate with a country which has such a poor record on human rights. that covers many of the transit and origin countries too. such agreements have to be in the public domain, whether multilateral or bilateral, and this parliament has yet to receive documents promised by the italian authorities after our visit to lampedusa. my group believes we need an asylum agency to organise expert teams to help countries under stress assess claims. with reference to dublin ii, we are also aware that the fear of consequences makes some states reluctant to act and assume responsibility because they feel they are on their own. but there is also an issue about the reception and procedures directives and the quality of their implementation. the eu must again provide support to ensure a quality procedure: another task for an asylum agency. but we also have to provide back-up in other countries to deal with the processing of arrivals. we also need to be clear that we do not penalise those who carry out rescues, so we have no more cap anamur-style prosecutions. we are told that the law of the sea is clear: people in distress should be rescued regardless of their status. i am absolutely certain that, had those people pictured in our media been cruise-line passengers, they would have been picked up far more quickly than was the case.
rapporteur. – mr president, perhaps i could start by endorsing your welcome to those very important visitors. before i turn to my prepared remarks – and i will try not to take ten minutes, i am sure to your fervent relief – i am afraid i just wish to start on a slightly negative note, which is that this is billed as a joint debate on cross-border cooperation, combating terrorism and crime. up on the screen it just says that it is a debate about terrorism. in his introduction, mr altmaier said that we were going to talk about three cross-border policing projects. well, the major part of what i want to speak about is the regulation setting up the visa information system, which is a border-management system. its principal purpose is not combating terrorism and crime. i am sorry, but i take severe objection to the labelling of this debate, because i think sloppy thinking like this is what leads us into the idea that you set up a border control or immigration control database – and let us remember that 99.9% of visitors to the european union are legitimate travellers who do not have any connection with criminality whatsoever, nor indeed do illegal immigrants or unauthorised entrants. it is not itself a criminal offence to be unauthorised on a territory. i am sorry to take up rather a lot of time making that point. it is two and a half years since the commission made its proposals on the visa information system and we have had nearly a year and a half of often intense negotiations. so i am very pleased indeed that we have reached a strong and balanced agreement on these two highly complex legislative proposals, a regulation and a decision. i would like to thank the german presidency, in particular interior minister wolfgang schäuble, but also mr altmaier, for their strong political commitment to these dossiers, as well as previous presidencies, in particular the finnish presidency, which also worked hard towards an agreement. in my long list of thanks, i also want to thank the commission, in particular vice-president frattini, who was very hands-on in accompanying us throughout the process and in facilitating the final agreement. i also know that this result would not have been possible without the support of all the shadow rapporteurs – mr cashman, mrs klamt, mrs kaufmann and mrs ždanoka – to whom i would like to express my gratitude. finally, i should like to express my warm thanks to the parliament staff who put a huge amount of work in and were invaluable. my own assistant, alexandra, deserves special thanks. she has been absolutely superb. i would like to make an important institutional point. we have dealt here with two proposals, one in codecision and the other in consultation, but in reality we managed to treat them as a package, so we achieved quasi-codecision on the third-pillar measure as well. the agreement shows that parliament is a valid partner in codecision on highly complex justice and home affairs matters. it also shows that the separation between the first and the third pillars is simply inefficient and absurd. involving the european parliament on an equal footing in deciding legislation in police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters cannot but increase the legitimacy of the measures decided in this area. so i would take this opportunity to urge leaders gathered for the summit on 21 june to agree on lifting national vetoes in this area as a general rule. turning to the content of our agreement, i think we have managed to achieve what were my goals from the beginning: to have a system with clear purposes, rules and responsibilities and one which represents first and foremost a significant contribution to secure and well-managed borders. it will also deliver real facilitation for lawful travellers, who are the majority of those issued with schengen visas, as well as an improvement in internal security. parliament has introduced much more clarity and rigour into the vis, limiting the risk of abuse or malfunction and giving citizens the right to receive redress for mistakes. i am confident the system we have built will deliver both proper security and respect for people’s rights and civil liberties. many other improvements have been introduced in terms of data protection and data security, fall-back procedures for the use of biometrics, strengthened rules on access, use and transfer, and monitoring powers for data protection authorities. one new element represents a very positive achievement by parliament and should be seen as a precedent. it concerns access by law enforcement authorities to the vis database. after quite difficult negotiations, member states did recognise that the vis is not primarily a law enforcement tool and that therefore any access by police or intelligence services cannot be direct on-tap access, but must be indirect and supervised through filtering by central access points. these will check the legitimacy of each request, though since parliament is just as concerned as member states to have adequate tools to tackle crime and terrorism, we have agreed on an urgency procedure for emergencies of ‘request first, justify later’, which will cover exceptional cases of imminent threats. the vis will become the largest biometric database in the world, with details of around 20 million applicants, at any one time holding 70 million sets of fingerprints. biometrics can enhance but also invade privacy, and the same rigour that has been applied to the vis has to be applied to building safeguards for other existing or future biometric systems. this is even more important when it comes to possible future interoperability or even interlinkage, which could put privacy severely at risk, as data protection authorities – including the uk information commissioner richard thomas – have said. we must make sure as legislators that we do our best to maximise the benefits and minimise the risks of the new technologies. codecision means co-responsibility, and therefore an important part of the project will be implementation-monitoring and evaluation. parliament must be kept fully informed on the testing of the system, which i hope will be positive and allow the smooth entry into operation of the system. in eu legislation we are rather too fond of putting in review clauses that remain a dead letter. this must not happen with the vis. i would like to finish by highlighting two other important issues. the council has committed itself through two political declarations to coming up soon with a satisfactory agreement on two crucial pieces of legislation. the first of these is the framework decision on data protection that we are talking a lot about this evening: bringing in proper rules for exchanging the security related data, including that which police will get for accessing the vis. the second is the so-called ‘return directive’. it is unnecessary to say why these instruments are so important for europe and its citizens and i would just urge the council to keep to its political commitments.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, it is always good to see you in the chair when we are discussing fundamental freedoms and human rights. i am speaking on the vis regulation and decision. i would like to say that after two and a half years it feels as though it is the end of an unrequited love affair. i have admired this dossier from afar; i have wrestled with it, i have caressed it, but i have never felt that it has really returned my passion. i would nevertheless like to thank baroness ludford and the other shadow rapporteurs for the close cooperation that we have had. however, two and a half years is not really good enough. we should not be patting ourselves on the back. it is a first reading deal, but progress has been slow. we have before us a good package, but nonetheless if we are to be efficient when we are working in codecision, we need to work more quickly and more efficiently. i have to say that this is a call for greater resources, not only for the commission, but for the parliament, both within the committee secretariat and within our own delegation secretariats. as i said, we have a text which represents a balanced position. it does not include everything that the socialists would have wanted, but my group feels it does contain the major elements: limited and proportionate access; data protection rules; the right of appeal, which is absolutely essential; sanctions for misuse and the principle of non-discrimination, which i am proud to say was set in the precedent of my report on the schengen border code. we are also pleased that the german presidency can agree to the package of the vis regulation and the vis decision, again equally important for us. we also welcome the council’s willingness to reach agreement on the third-pillar data protection framework decision. this is of prime importance. i would like to finish perhaps on a somewhat controversial note: the issue of biometrics and in particular fingerprints. here we need a change of mindset if we are properly to enhance civil liberties, in particular freedom of movement, and, essentially, the protection of minors who are travelling unaccompanied. i believe this will help us to prohibit the trafficking of minors. will privacy be invaded or at risk? i do not think so. the risk to privacy is dependent upon the use of biometrics and the storage of biometrics. i end, as i began, by applauding all sides of the house, the commission and the presidency on the close cooperation that we have had.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – president, the purpose of the prüm treaty clearly states that it is to play a pioneering role in the integration of the eu. we all know that talk of combating crime and terrorism is secondary to the real purpose. as a framework decision of the council, it will become part of the eu body of law, its provisions set in stone and not subject to any real democratic scrutiny or approval. the british parliament will have no opportunity to prevent the implementation of this convention, and even this parliament only has a consultative role. britain faces a particular danger. for example, it has the largest dna database in the world with samples collected from over 4.2 million people, many of whom are entirely innocent and have never been charged with any offence. these people are suspects in waiting. this is the creation of a big brother europe by the back door in pursuit of further political integration.
mr president, i rise to speak in this debate on one issue only, and that is the prüm treaty. in my view, this issue has been rushed through by the council with what can only be described as indecent haste. the implications of this treaty are far-reaching and will affect all eu citizens. to give just one example, the provisions of the treaty could mean that data is shared and exchanged on all eu citizens regardless of whether they are suspected or convicted of a crime. indeed, the european data protection supervisor, as was mentioned by our previous speaker, has highlighted this and is gravely concerned. in a recent report, he said that the circle of data subjects that can be included in this system is not limited to data on persons suspected or convicted of specific crimes. in the european union, where we promote civil liberties and data protection, why are we allowing this to happen? also, there is the issue of hot pursuit, where foreign police are free to enter other member states without permission and with powers of arrest, thus negating civilised extradition procedures. in my view this is unacceptable. the system used in the recent world cup in germany, where foreign police were sent to assist the local forces but without the powers of executive action, worked perfectly well. to use the english expression, ‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it’. overall, this treaty is a classic example of where a few member states are trying to impose their system on all other member states. in this case only eight countries have signed up to this treaty and we are now trying to foist it upon the rest. we should not be going in this direction and i would prefer to see member states being given the option to opt into the parts of the treaty where it suits their national interest and not to seek to have opt-outs or derogations. unless this is the case, i could not support bringing such a provision into the eu acquis. it is a dangerous and ill-thought-through measure which does little to inform public safety, but does much to shatter public confidence in due process.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. three very short remarks. first of all, i would like to apologise to baroness ludford for not having explicitly emphasised the border control aspect of the vis. you are quite right in that respect. secondly, i would ask you to understand that we were in a great hurry to transpose the prüm treaty. i know we've made a lot of demands on you because of this. but please also remember: the prüm treaty is an international treaty to which so many countries have acceded that i do not know whether we would have found the necessary willingness in the council to transfer it to the european union in a year's time. thirdly, at the end of this debate, i would like to thank once again all those who have helped us to demonstrate the european union's ability to act in three very important areas.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – i will abstain in the vote on this report mainly because the uk is not a part of the schengen agreement and as such i should not be involved in determining policy in other member states. however, i also recognise the difference in jurisprudence in the uk in contrast to other member states. this issue of compatibility has broader implications and needs to be dealt with in an appropriate manner. i will be interested in the outcome of the court rulings on this issue. i recognise the positive aspect that this system will bring to security; however, the dangers are also relevant and need to be taken into account. thus the broader implications of the visa information system make me hesitant to approve or denounce its implementation.
we now come to the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
thank you, mr martin, we shall make sure your comments are passed on to the secretary-general.
mr president, in 2005 one of my constituents, mr michael davidson, had a quantity of cigarettes and alcohol and his motor car seized by her majesty’s revenue and customs when re-entering the uk at dover. their justification is that, purely in their opinion, he intended to use the goods for commercial purposes, something he strenuously denies. such seizures are illegal under council directive 92/12/eec. in 2006, commissioner kovács postponed proceeding against her majesty’s government in the european court of justice on the understanding that it would comply with the law. however, hm revenue and customs are still illegally seizing goods and refusing to restore the monetary value of goods previously seized. the british government has subjugated british citizens to eu law, but choose to ignore it when it applies to them. i intend to write to mr kovács asking him to re-open the proceedings against the british government in the european court of justice.
thank you for ensuring the application of eu law, mr batten.
that concludes the one-minute speeches.
the next item is the report by claire gibault, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the social status of artists (2006/2249(ini)) (a6-0199/2007).
very good definition of copyright!
thank you, commissioner. we wish all artists every success, especially those participating in the venice biennale – which opens this week – and particularly tracy emin.
yes, we have all experienced that degrading treatment.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, as you might expect, there are many areas of concern to me in this report but sadly i have time only to look at one. in her report, mrs gibault proposes a pilot scheme of registration cards for artists. could this be the thin end of yet another wedge? will this then be rolled out to apply to all professions and trades? will we all then require a card before taking up employment? could you then be prevented from taking employment in your chosen field, as is the case with photographers from other countries in germany, unless you have a permit? and who will organise this, pray? more bureaucrats? just as over-regulation stifles business, so this proposal will suffocate art. indeed it will ensure continued foreign dominance in the fields of art and entertainment largely from the united states. i predict that this, if passed, will be another example of the laws of unintended consequences.
thank you, commissioner, and thanks to all the members who contributed. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by zdzisław kazimierz chmielewski, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multi-annual plan for the cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (com(2006)0411 – c6-0281/2006 – 2006/0134(cns)) (a6-0163/2007).
mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report. from my point of view there are still some outstanding issues to be clarified. we must be able to ensure that the impact within different regions in member states is not too harsh. the mechanism of this proposal is complicated for those regions that applied the hybrid area-based model for the single farm payment, including my own area, and this, in particular, must be resolved. this is a difficult, complex area that must be addressed. there are many different outside pressures that impinge on the marketing process. high among those is the purchasing power of the large supermarket chains, where one supplier or producer is put against another to drive the price down. there are also those who import cheap produce, turn it around and add value to produce of unknown origin. we seem to be unable to stop this. i am now going to be rather parochial. last week i led a delegation to my local minister in northern ireland to raise the plight of mushroom growers in that area. four years ago in northern ireland we had over 226 mushroom growers, today we have 40 – an 80% drop in those involved in the industry. i have to ask whether anyone cares, and i have come to the conclusion that the answer is no. farming families have been destroyed and their incomes done away with. they have been totally disregarded by those capable of importing cheap mushrooms, adding value and selling them to the supermarkets, which pretend that they are local. if we stand back and allow such a situation to continue in this and other areas, we will totally destroy the fabric of rural society as we know it. these commodities keep families and communities together. we destroy them at our peril; we must defend rural society.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, one thing we all know. those of us here and those protesting at heiligendamm. the key challenges facing our people; challenges like climate change, energy security and international crime remain unsolved because our institutions of government are no longer fit for purpose. member states recognised this when they signed the treaty establishing a constitution, and yet some now backtrack on those commitments without even attempting ratification. such an approach is contrary to the spirit of european union, contrary to common sense, contrary to the interests of europe’s citizens. as javier solana said last month, ‘just when we should be at our most alert, just when the world’s demand for europe is at its highest, the union has turned inwards, immersed in a state of institutional crisis’. acting together, europe could make a real difference where individual member states meet only a brick wall. the detention of the bulgarian nurses is a case in point. as a result of january’s council, diplomatic pressure from all european capitals has been brought to bear that could soon bring the nurses’ captivity to an end. we call on the presidency of this house to demand that the summit unite in the same manner in support of alan johnston, the bbc journalist held in gaza. and yet on wider issues, matters of crucial importance? well, as mark twain reminded us, when all is said and done much more has been said than done! how can we protect our citizens from abuse of data? how can we ensure energy security? how can we manage migration policy if we fail to equip ourselves with the tools for the job? are the naysayers serious in saying they will sacrifice good governance for the sake of flags and titles? can they really defend a system of national vetoes which, as president-in-office steinmeier pointed out, castrates key initiatives? codecision and qualified majority voting must be the norm, not the exception, in european policymaking. june’s european council is an opportunity to close a barren chapter of non-cooperation and start afresh with a toolkit equipped for the times. this house stands firm in its desire to secure a roadmap for reform that can enter into force by the next european elections. we demand robust parliamentary participation in the igc, at which we demand greater and more pluralistic representation. as one of the co-authors of the constitutional treaty at the european convention, this house expects to be treated as such, not consigned to the margins as we were for previous treaties. if the text is to surmount the perceived lack of legitimacy of the original, then the people’s representatives must be given a voice. that voice will argue against a de minimis compromise on the substance of the text. it will insist that the charter of fundamental rights is too important to be downgraded in the manner proposed by the uk, because that way lies differential membership, differential citizenship, differential rights which have no place in a europe of equals. (applause) the path of the lowest common denominator outcome leads inexorably to a two-tier europe. let the faint hearts be warned: this is our best chance to make europe work for our citizens. we must not and we will not let it go. (applause)
on behalf of the its group. – madam president, the british government’s white paper on the original constitution said that it involved no fundamental change, but why have a constitution if you do not want fundamental change? what other purpose could there be? now we have angela merkel saying that the new version should have a new name, but ‘use different terminology without changing the legal substance’. how reassuring to be so vividly reminded of german commitment to democracy and the rule of law! the old and, no doubt, the new constitution totally reverses the relationship between the eu and the member states and between the governed and the governing. whenever before, i ask you, did a sovereign nation permit outsiders to write and impose a new constitution on them, except after defeat in war? in my country, the state draws power from the people and it answers to them. the eu plans now that the state seeks to exist in its own right and have the people answer to it. our rights and freedoms are our birthright. they are not in the gift or at the discretion of a passing parade of political nonentities, here today and gone tomorrow. the original draft of the constitution did us a great service. it crystallised the future. it attempted to turn a europe of nations into a nation called europe. it forced us to decide if we should allow europeans to become our masters. we do not. you are our neighbours. you should be our friends, but nothing more. whatever its new name, like the last one, this one will not be a constitution in any real meaning at all. the first was vague, grandiose, imprecise, complex, confusing and extremely long. but more important than any of that, it was proscriptive rather than enabling. it made law rather than seeking to create a framework for lawmaking. it offered no effective checks and balances to control future lawmakers, nor a mechanism to stop the train. it consolidated power for a system of government by a self-perpetuating bureaucracy and it turned the member states from theoretical masters of the house of brussels into its servants. what is different this time? this constitution is not the answer. it is a 1950s solution to 2000s problems and today we live in a very different world. no wonder there is hostility across all 27 member states. (applause)
mr president, president-in-office, what do you make of this latest craze for the simplified treaty? personally, it seems strange to me that those who support such simplification seek to delete what is the simplest article that we find in the 2004 package, which is the first article that sets out the principles for the union’s foundation. the problem is that in trying to simplify we end up by being simplistic, and in seeking to define an amending treaty – rather than a consolidating treaty – we are in the realm purely of semantics. in changing terminology and in suppressing the symbols we risk turning euro-scepticism into euro-cynicism. the fact is that there is no way out of this crisis, except with strong democratic leadership and a clear vision of the common interest of europe, and such leadership is certainly being provided both from the presidency and from the commission at present.
mr president, i am surprised we have the front to call this a debate, because the minister did not tell us any of the substance of the negotiations. but, of course, there is no debate, is there? there is no debate in the national parliaments, no informed opinion in the press, no debate at all – and why? because this whole treaty is being put together in secret and that is because you do not want to involve the citizens of europe. you are fearful that the more they find out about your grandiose plans, the more likely they are to vote ‘no’. worse still is the downright dishonesty with which this whole process is being pursued. for angela merkel to talk in a letter about the proposal to use different terminology without changing the legal substance is the stuff of alice through the looking glass. it is the twisting of language. it is the deliberate attempt to stop there being free and fair referendums in european countries. it is your plan to act like a bulldozer: just to sweep aside the french and dutch referendum results, to pursue your political goals without taking the people with you. i have no doubt that you think you are going to get away with it, but from a british perspective i have no doubt that mr blair, in his last act as the british prime minister, will sign up to virtually anything you want him to. but he will be handing to his successor something rather like a hand grenade with the pin pulled out, because the pressure on gordon brown to have a referendum on this treaty in britain is going to be enormous. in fact, i would go further. i am confident that this treaty will not become british law without the brits having a referendum, and when they have that referendum they are going to say ‘no’. but if you are proud of your european project, if you are true democrats, then you will join me in the call to let the people decide their own future. do not foist it upon them.
mr president, a key focus of the german presidency has been its determined attempt to revive the substance of the eu constitutional treaty, which was roundly rejected by the french and dutch voters. we claim to be a europe of values based on democracy and the rule of law, yet this attempt to resurrect the constitution in defiance of the clear and expressed will of the voters demonstrates a vast contempt for democracy and for european citizens. and the methods proposed are deceitful and dishonourable. you have heard this already but i shall say it again – we have angela merkel’s letter, in which she proposes different terminology without changing the legal substance, and replacing the charter of fundamental rights by a short cross-reference having the same legal value. mrs merkel, this is downright dishonest! you should be ashamed. our leaders will then fraudulently pretend that the new treaty is wholly different and deny us a referendum. i remind my country’s incoming prime minister, gordon brown, that he is bound by a clear labour manifesto commitment to put the constitution to the british people. he cannot pretend that a few cosmetic changes can escape that commitment.
mr president, you cannot choose those speakers that appear close to you on the board in these debates, but let me just keep to my text. my text voices concern, as you might expect, that the council meeting, which is a vital one, should not devote all its attention to the issue of the constitution. i and my colleagues do not believe that a constitution as such is necessary or that there is a massive crisis in europe at this time that requires it. we hope that a solution will be found which does not require the constitution to be pushed through regardless, following the views expressed by the people of france and the netherlands. we hope that the laeken summit and what it stood for – which was to make the eu more transparent and less intrusive in the lives of our peoples – will be the basis of whatever comes out of that very important summit. but i want to say how pleased i am that the chancellor of germany has taken such an interest in the issue of climate change and the need for us to work in a cooperative fashion to try to find solutions to global warming and, indeed, the global poverty which arises as a result of those changes. she shares with my party leader, david cameron, a firm commitment to tackling one of the gravest challenges facing mankind today. it is in relation to that kind of hard policy that we all feel that there is a massive urgency and priority and that we can work together in the right way. we can act together in a way which actually enhances the eu in the minds of the people rather than making them suspicious of its intentions for their future.
in writing. – this debate is in many ways a continuation of yesterday’s debate on the brok/barón crespo report on parliament’s position concerning the future of the constitutional treaty and the new igc proposed by the german presidency. i would therefore simply refer members to what i said yesterday on behalf of the socialist group and wish every success to the 27 heads of government at their meeting later this month, which must agree on a way forward capable of securing 27 ratifications.
mr president, on behalf of the pse group, we suggest replacing the word ‘possible’ with ‘reasonable’ so that it would read: ‘emphasises that everything “reasonable” must be done to avoid the creation of a two-speed europe’. i am sure you will accept the logic of this, that if we wanted to do everything possible, that might include shooting all opponents of this point of view. that is possible, but not reasonable, and as we are very reasonable people, we think we should say ‘reasonable’. (laughter)
mr president, as someone who was not phoned by the lobbyist but is delighted to vote against these amendments, i was just wondering what the point was of having a legal service at all. the two amendments that my colleague is suggesting are well beyond the bounds of what this house can do: they are, indeed, ultra vires. i am sure that under the corbett reforms that we voted on in our previous term there was meant to be some sort of impact assessment and common sense applied to amendments that we are trying to pass through this house, which obviously has not happened in this case. for example, i believe there is a call for a european social security card in this report, which really should not be allowed through this house at this stage.
in writing. whilst conservatives support co-operation between police forces, we cannot support bringing the provisions in the prüm treaty into the eu framework. we have grave concerns, as does the european data protection supervisor, with regard to the requirements on the collection of data on individual citizens who are neither suspected nor who have committed a crime. in addition, the issue of "hot pursuit" without authorisation by other member states police forces is a source of great concern. conservatives believe that intergovernmental co-operation in the field of counter-terrorism and serious criminal cases is essential but feel that there should be an "opt-in" clause to allow member states the freedom to maintain their traditional systems of justice.
in writing. i voted to abstain and against the amendments proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development. these amendments moved away from the principle and practice of reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). i abstained where there was no clear implication for uk interests, but where there were clear concerns for continental member states – 'hot pursuit' being that particular vote. i also voted against eight amendments, which, when taken in combination, actually increased funds to fruit and vegetable sectors, which is against the uk labour party's view that support spending should be reduced and contradicts cap reform.
in writing. the socialist group has approved this resolution by an overwhelming majority. i should add on behalf of the labour meps that the eplp fully supports the main conclusion of this report, namely "a commitment to calling an intergovernmental conference and the definition of a roadmap containing a procedure, a clear mandate and a clear objective of reaching an agreement before the end of this year". however, we thought that it was inappropriate to single out some - but not other - elements contained in the constitutional treaty as being essential, as the new treaty will only see the light of day if it is acceptable to all 27 member states.
in writing. i, along with my eplp colleagues, voted to abstain on critical issues of this report, which, even as an own-initiative endeavour, is inappropriate on certain levels. paragraph 5 is an ambiguous reference to the member states that have not put the text to ratification yet. there are also issues where inappropriate demands are made on a list of issues or concern idle threats to reject council negotiations. alongside this is a request to hold simultaneous ratification, which could present serious problems in many member states. however, there were other serious issues which could be supported and where i could support them, i did.
mr president, there may be a window of opportunity over the coming months to solve once and for all the issue of the seat of the european parliament. it may be a small opportunity, but i would urge us to seize it. the combination, on the one hand, of a newly elected french president who professes to be a reformer and, on the other hand, of an igc this autumn, which is going to agree on changes to the treaty, is surely an opportunity we should seize. clearly, whatever solution is found would have to compensate strasbourg if we were to move the sessions of this parliament to brussels, but i believe that is possible simply by holding the meetings of the european council itself here instead. that would give strasbourg just as much prestige as it enjoys in hosting the sessions of the parliament, and it would have an institutional logic. the three ordinary institutions which interact daily – the ordinary council, the commission and parliament – should be in the same town, but the european council, which is supposed to be a strategic body and take a certain distance from the day-to-day operation, could usefully meet here and at the same time solve this problem we face of having to come here every month. i would urge you to take up this matter, mr president.
mr president, the dangers posed by the european arrest warrant are clearly illustrated by the case of mr enrico mariotti. mr mariotti was granted sanctuary in england in 1998 after being accused of crimes allegedly committed in italy more than 30 years previously. the hearsay evidence presented against him would never have been allowed in an english court, let alone result in conviction and a prison sentence. despite the support of many people and sections of the british media, he was recently deported to italy by means of a european arrest warrant. he now languishes in a remote prison facing a 26-year prison sentence. mr mariotti is an italian, but the same rules apply for british citizens. the european arrest warrant means that our traditional safeguards against arbitrary arrest and extradition have been circumvented. people can now be transported to foreign courts with as much ceremony as posting a parcel.
mr president, this house should be aware of the growing, widespread concern in the uk of the constitution being resurrected as a treaty as a means of avoiding a referendum in great britain. as a direct result of this growing concern, there is now a conversation going on amongst various groups about calling a general strike if such a device were used to avoid a referendum on this issue – that is the level of anger which is now evident in my country. it would bring great britain to a standstill for the first time since the 1920s, and it is to be hoped that those now negotiating this constitution revision see sense and avoid such a device, if they possibly can.
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the house the serious flooding that occurred in northern ireland on tuesday afternoon last week. many areas were left under water in a very short period of time. schools had to be evacuated and old people’s homes and even hospitals had to be closed. hundreds of emergency calls were made within a period of two hours and many people had to be evacuated from their homes because of the flood damage. the fire and rescue service was stretched to the limit, but i commend them on their excellent work. i would ask the commission to mobilise the solidarity fund to give short-term assistance to those areas affected. this would send a very positive message to the affected areas in belfast, ballynahinch, saintfield, omagh, crossgar, cookstown and dungannon, to name but a few, and everywhere in northern ireland where these flash floods occurred.
mr president, last week showed hamas up for what it really is: a fanatic, banned terrorist group, as evidenced by its appalling behaviour after the military coup in so-called ‘hamastan’ – their new name for the sharia-based islamist regime in gaza – in which fatah officials had their throats brutally cut in front of their families. we must now extend our sympathy to israel, which is likely to receive a new barrage of qassam rockets and fresh suicide bombers. iran is rejoicing too that its proxies – hezbollah to the north and hamas in the south – now encircle israel. the eu must now immediately restore full funding to the palestinian authority government under secular president abbas and moderate new prime minister fayyad, and isolate the illegal islamist haniya regime in gaza.
mr president, i am very impressed to see the commissioners for competition and information technology job-sharing this evening. in the headlong rush to universal provision of broadband access to the internet, let us remember the impact of this technology on older people and less mobile people. it can be a great benefit, but it can also be a great challenge. we must remember that there are those people who may not be able, or who may not wish, to use the internet. i suggest that achieving our dynamic knowledge-based economy is not so much about access to knowledge as what we do with it. i cannot help wondering whether we are not at risk of turning our citizens into couch potatoes, sitting in front of their computer screens and having to resort to virtual exercise rather than the real thing. i note a recent report in the press that there has been a marked slow-down of internet shopping in the united states because – surprise – people still want to go to the shop and see the product for themselves and touch it, and not just see it virtually. furthermore, i would guess that we all agree that broadband is a good thing – we are all in favour of it – but i ask myself whether we really need 62 paragraphs to say so. finally, when i was listening to my esteemed colleague, mr rübig, a moment ago, i thought i was in a time warp addressing a rather different issue, but then i realised he had just ‘roamed’ off the subject.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i must apologise to the rapporteur and the commissioner for missing my slot earlier, but i was viewing another form of european technology at the paris air show and came here as quickly as possible. on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i want to thank the rapporteur for incorporating almost all elements of our opinion, including some of our suggestions, into his report. his report is to be commended, because it takes a very broad view of the issue. the report quite rightly emphasises that the provision of broadband is an extremely dynamic and evolving market. many comments have already been made in the debate about the importance of spreading broadband, particularly into rural areas, where it is more difficult to provide services. however, the new wireless and satellite technologies are opening up those markets at a far lower cost than ever before, which is important. i would caution colleagues who have been calling for local authority or state support for infrastructure. frankly, the problem is that if you invest in infrastructure it will soon be out of date and it is not characteristic of state enterprises to sustain investment, or even to sustain consistent policy. we do not want to crowd out the private providers of competing technologies. where there is a market failure, it would be far better, as our opinion states, for authorities to act as the lead customer and to aggregate demand, e.g. from their education and social services, and offer those launch contracts to private providers, ensuring that competition is kept in place. i know the commissioner is extremely keen on this approach to broadband provision. we fully support her desire to sustain competition as the main medium of delivery. in conclusion, i want to pick up on an earlier comment by my friend erika mann: as the lead committee for universal service end-users’ rights – and having dealt with that directive before – we await the commission’s green paper on this subject with great interest. our opinion and the hökmark report indicate some directions we wish the commissioner to look at. it is quite clear that the issue of universal service needs to be looked at, but we should be very cautious about applying a new rigid formula given the dynamic state of the market and the fact that broadband demand will continue to increase.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mr schnellhardt on his patience above all else. the spirit industry is extremely important to us, creating jobs, status, export and tax revenue. therefore it has been important to update the 1989-1990 regulations, to bring greater clarity and greater legal certainty to improve the definition of the main spirit drinks and to resolve any problems with spirits with a quasi-geographical indication status. what we now have is a proper registration system for geographical indication, which is important, and i am glad we have got rid of the three categories of spirits. we have now ended up with something that is compatible with the wto and trips, which ensures smooth running in the internal market, prevents fraud and counterfeiting, protects the consumer and does not underplay and undermine solid, long-established industries, such as the second biggest vodka producer in europe – the united kingdom – where in scotland vodka is such an important industry. that is why we must support these proposals. i think the commission proposal was better than the compromise, but it is important to move forward with the compromise on vodka, bearing in mind geographical indications will protect forever polish vodka, finnish vodka, swedish vodka, lithuanian vodka, and so on.
on behalf of the pse group . – mr president, the socialist group will be supporting the trialogue compromise and all its elements, as outlined by the rapporteur, mr schnellhardt. i should like to thank him for all his hard work and, like mr titley, his patience, because this has become a very complex dossier and one on which emotions have started to run high. we are supporting this compromise because we want the european drinks industry to have high-quality products for consumers and we want to protect our industry on the world markets. what we do not want to do with this legislation is to give one country’s type of production an advantage over another country’s type of production. that is not the aim of the legislation. there is room for all european producers, as long as they meet high quality standards. that brings me to the vodka compromise. i think it is a good compromise. why? because, as mr schnellhardt has said, for the first time it recognises that there is a special place for traditional manufacturers using cereals and potatoes. but, at the same time, it allows other long-standing producers of vodka to continue to market their products on the european market – and they will be labelled. we cannot have a situation as proposed by some of the amendments which seek to take certain european producers off the market. that would never get a majority in this house and would never get a majority in the council. everybody has to work in a spirit of compromise and what we have got on the table has something for everybody. we have also got to work with facts. it is simply not true that the compromise on vodka would allow you to make vodka, for example, from animal waste, as has been circulated again in this house today. that is not true. it is made from very high-quality agricultural products. i want to say something to the british conservatives about vodka. i understand from their press release last week they are not supporting the compromise now and they have accused labour of selling the british vodka industry down the river. i have to say that this is vital for european jobs, it is vital for the drinks industry, which employs 60 000 people, and has the support of british industry as well as european vodka producers and other drinks manufacturers. i can see surprise from some members. i hope we will have this clarified because i have the press release here. finally, it is not just about vodka, it is about high-quality drinks. many colleagues from different countries have come to mr schnellhardt, myself and other colleagues and asked for certain changes because of their traditional production. all those things have been met. the council and the commission have been very helpful and i very much hope that tomorrow, after, as mr titley has said, 18 years have passed since we started trying to get this legislation on the statute book, we just go ahead and do it and protect european jobs.
mr president, as a scots mep i have an obvious interest in any regulation that relates to whisky. however, we also have other national drinks, including a very significant economic interest in vodka and gin distillation and bottling. the debates in which i have taken part in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection have been interesting, at times heated, and i have argued strongly for a flexible definition of ‘vodka’. some say that spirits should be treated the same, but vodka and whisky are not the same, and this proposal simply has to recognise that fact. vodka has traditionally been made from different ingredients in different areas; scotch whisky is a product of centuries of traditional practice, by contrast. the first reference to scotch whisky in scotland was in exchequer records in 1494/95. the first taxes were imposed in 1644. some spirits have traditionally been rounded off using sugar. scotch whisky has not, and this regulation must not allow that to happen. protecting the term ‘scotch whisky’, as well as the methods of production under geographic definition, is extremely important for scotland for obvious reasons. some details still have to be underlined in the technical files, and i look forward to that. however, this first-reading compromise – the product of lengthy and very heated exchanges – is something that, in the spirit of that compromise, i am now prepared to accept, and i hope that the house will accept it tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to put aside my prepared text and respond to some of my colleagues who spoke earlier in the debate. mrs mcavan tells us that this measure is designed to protect jobs, yet to the extent that it either bans or qualifies the use of the word ‘vodka’ for existing brands and existing manufacturers, it seems likely to have exactly the reverse effect. mr maaten asks if we have not been to see a distillery which is a craft industry. well, mr maaten, yes i have. i worked in the industry for several years and i can tell you that a malt whisky distillery is indeed a craft industry, but a vodka or grain whisky distillery is an industrial process and the process for producing vodka produces pure alcohol whether you make it from sugar or from potatoes or from anything else. all this talk about consumer protection is nonsense. the product is identical and the reason we should not compare vodka with whisky – or brandy, as has been rightly pointed out by my colleague on the other side of the chamber – is because in those products, the ingredients significantly affect the flavour. whisky is only whisky if it is made in the proper way, but vodka is based on pure alcohol. if i may make a general point, we should not be seeking to change the established meanings of words by legislation. however, in this case the compromise proposed by the rapporteur seems to be the best outcome on offer so i suppose that we must reluctantly support it. as happens so often in the european union, we have to make the best of a bad job.
mr president, as mr helmer has pointed out, and just to clarify for the house, the uk conservatives are indeed supporting mr schnellhardt’s amendment on vodka. the issue which our scandinavian and polish colleagues appear to be banking on now is the old equality-with-whisky argument. i have heard people in the house this evening saying that that we could possibly have a situation where whisky is going to be made out of grapes. well i have to say that these arguments are completely bogus. we are trying to define these products for the benefit of consumers to ensure that what is in the bottle conforms to their expectations of what a whisky or a vodka should be. as distillers will tell you, if you distil at a lower alcoholic strength, more taste comes over the still. spirits like whisky are distilled at a low strength and derive their taste from the raw materials. other spirits like vodka are distilled at a high strength and may then even be filtered through charcoal to remove the taste of the raw materials. our nordic colleagues and their allies are trying to have it both ways. they are asking us to define a product not by reference to its characteristics or by reference to what the consumers expect, but by reference to the raw materials that their producers currently use. it is interesting that they have not sought to include sulphite waste, which was the predominant raw material in sweden in the 1920s, nor apples, nor coal and yellow turnips, which have all been used in poland in the past. parliament should not be in the business of defining products so as to exclude producers and distort competition. we should be protecting the consumer, and it is for that reason that we support the approach being taken by dr schnellhardt, which avoids artificial restrictions on production while ensuring that consumers are adequately informed.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. i consider it to be an excellent piece of work. this report and this debate have, to say the least, provoked a considerable disagreement between many members, between groups and within groups. i believe that we should support the compromise that has been reached. there are other proposals, but they cover what one specific viewpoint holds to the detriment of the other. the bottom line should be the quality and the standard of the product. additives are and must be controlled, but you cannot ban products that have been used for a long time. we have to be aware of the needs of the spirit industry, as well as of consumer protection. as some have said, this has turned out to be a complex report, with some very strong and different points of view, but we must have an acceptable agreement. compromise agreements sometimes dilute the original intention of the directive, but on this occasion i believe that this is the best we can achieve at the present time. this is a very important and serious subject and we must get it right. the debate on what vodka is has removed some of the importance of this directive and that is unfortunate, but that sometimes occurs in politics. i listened to the different contributions and to my two colleagues from scotland who protested that they have the longest-standing whisky. where i come from in northern ireland we have a little product called bushmills and we would probably have a good debate as to who actually owned the oldest whiskey on the island of ireland! i shall conclude on that note.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it has always been my contention that, far from encouraging competition, the eu in its drive for the mythical ‘level playing field’ wants to stamp it out altogether. this report does little to change that perception. paragraph 13 supports a common consolidated corporate tax base, which is another step towards a compulsory eu-wide corporation tax, which is fundamentally anti-competitive. this idea is enthusiastically supported by france and germany, two countries with higher corporate tax rates, which must be salivating at the idea of getting everybody else’s rates up to their level. one of the most stupid pieces of eu jargon that i have ever heard is ‘unfair tax competition’, which is what this clause is all about. there is nothing unfair about some member states having more business-friendly taxation regimes than others. this encourages competition. state aid gets a bashing in this report, as you would expect, but the report makes the false assumption that all state aid is bad. in britain, because of eu state aid restrictions, we are rapidly losing the royal mail postal service, to the detriment of consumers, particularly in remote areas.
member of the commission. madam president, i am as impressed with the report as everyone who has already spoken. i greatly appreciate the report itself, but i appreciate even more the annual debates, particularly with the honourable members present at this sitting. the report itself makes a vital contribution to the further development of this policy. i would like to assure you that i am not only listening to you, but am taking many of your remarks – which make a lot of sense – into account. indeed, if competition policy is to really deliver in creating growth and jobs in europe, we need to continue working together. that means involving all the stakeholders – parliament as well as the outside world – and taking into account the point touched upon by sophia in 't veld. it is not a matter of making fun of anyone but rather to set a level playing field in which everyone, both the consumer and the business world, may finally share the advantages. i would like to respond to a few specific issues raised in our debate this evening. mrs berès had some interesting ideas for new sector inquiries and i will indeed consider the subjects she touched upon: rating agencies, auditing firms and large investment banks. we have not yet made up our minds and are still discussing the matter, so i will put this on the list. it is more a matter of resources than a lack of sectors in which it might make sense to start a sector inquiry. at present the commission has no grounds for a wide-ranging review of competition in these particular sectors, but this does not mean that we cannot take a couple of thoughts out of it. i would welcome further discussion with parliament on these issues. of course, the commission is always ready to look carefully at any evidence of anti-competitive behaviour which is brought to our attention in individual situations. mrs berès also spoke about competition on non-traditional grounds, for example salaries. the report also mentions tax. i note that many of you are concerned by so-called tax competition among the member states. it is correct that the commission has powers to assess tax measures affecting competition. however, and i would like to make this quite clear, that is the case only when these measures are considered to be state aid and essentially when they are selective in nature, meaning that they do not constitute general measures. i now come to the point that sophia in 't veld touched upon. for the last 10 years the commission has been reviewing potentially harmful tax schemes. we have challenged a series of national measures targeting, amongst others, offshore intragroup activities. as regards salary competition, my answer is quite clear: if measures relating to salaries can be considered as state aid, the commission will use its powers. turning to state aid issues, in particular in reply to sophia in 't veld, state aid is in principle, as we are all aware, banned by the treaty to avoid distortions of competition in our single market. state aid can indeed be a legitimate tool to deliver outcomes which are in the general interest, for example regional cohesion, research and development, as well as innovation and high-quality public services which markets themselves will not deliver. that is why our approach is to design a new set of state aid rules, which we did with the review. it uses a more economic approach to assess where market failures exist and to target appropriate aid measures on them. that is a balanced and a realistic view. it reflects the need to help member states get the best out of taxpayers’ money – state aid is, at the end of the day, taxpayers’ money. the commission publishes its state aid scoreboards twice a year. as you are aware, this presents data and analyses of member states’ expenditure on state aid measures. it includes a focus on member states’ progress towards the lisbon goals of less and better aid. the next edition will pay close attention to the question of recovery. in addition, a series of indicators and statistical tables on our europa website gives scope for further discussion. but sophia in 't veld is right: we need to do more to evaluate the effects of state aid, whether it makes sense and how. that is how the new more economic approach could help us. i can be brief in response to mr garcía-margallo y marfil: we have discussed this before and we know exactly what the dossier is about. we have taken the member state concerned to court for not respecting our two article 21 decisions under the merger regulation. my colleague, charlie mccreevy, is taking parallel action under the internal market rules. i am always open to your suggestions for further improving the way in which competition policy makes markets function better. i badly need your ideas and your creativity. we are doing our utmost to complete this process, and i am grateful for your continued support and valuable contribution. we are not there yet but are on the right track.
member of the commission. madam president, we have had the opportunity in the past to discuss this proposal in committees and intergroups. i am sure you will understand that i am very happy to be having this debate with you tonight. first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks for the work of all members of the european parliament, especially that of the rapporteur, who has done a very good job. i would also like to thank the draftswoman and draftsman of the other committees, mrs lucas and mr stevenson. it was a real challenge for me when i was first confronted with this issue after taking up my post. for me, the most frustrating part was that we had an issue which was very close to the heart of european citizens and which had the support of the council and, clearly, of the european parliament but also of the commission, yet we still had problems in proceeding with this proposal. the problems were, of course, legal and not the result of a lack of political will. i am happy that we have now reached a point where, using some imaginative and constructive approaches, we have managed to find solutions, and that we are now able to have a first reading agreement, which is very important to me. we are all familiar with the issue and know that the disturbing evidence of barbaric treatment of cats and dogs, which are bred and killed mainly for their fur, especially in asia, has provoked a strong call for the commission to take action. as i have said, we had to find ways not only to express tangibly the political will of all the institutions involved and the citizens, but also to do so in a legally sound way that would ensure that this will could face and withstand any challenges arising in the future. i am very happy that, through the proposal and, in particular, the various trialogues, we have managed to reach a compromise. this compromise is legally sound and will ensure that the ban will be effective in practice. for us, it is important to have results, not just to issue a political statement or express political will, which would eventually become ineffective. it would be correct politically, but it would not produce the results that we want: the protection of cats and dogs and, even more importantly, of european consumers who do not want to be offered the fur of cats and dogs, which they consider their pets. i would like to mention two of my colleagues by name, mr mandelson and mr mccreevy. both were very supportive of our work in this area. as you know, the legal basis we have been using relates to the internal market and trade. this was necessary, because, unfortunately, there is no legal basis in the treaty that would allow the eu to adopt a legislative initiative to ban a particular trade based on animal welfare or ethical concerns. furthermore, there is no legal basis for animal protection as such in the treaty, so we had to use these two legal bases, and my colleagues have been very supportive of this work. we also had another legal challenge: the issue of proportionality. for reasons of proportionality it was necessary to consider including a provision that would allow for possible derogations to the ban. none of us was happy with this idea and, as i said, the only reason was to make this proposal more legally sound. i believe that we have managed to reach a proper compromise. as you know, this approach was also clearly supported by the legal services of all three institutions, the commission, parliament and the council. but the compromise we have today is the right one. it contains the possibility – and i emphasise the word ‘possibility’ – to derogate exceptionally from the trade ban for taxidermy or educational purposes. we have used the legal bases described and we know that this approach will benefit not only european consumers but also animal welfare, especially since we cannot introduce our animal welfare rules outside the european union. we cannot promote them internationally, but, by closing the market to the unscrupulous people who practise this trade, we are not only sending a clear message but also helping to stop this practice. finally, parliament, the council and commission have worked very hard to get the legislative proposal to the present stage and to reach an acceptable compromise. i very much hope that the vote tomorrow will reflect this positive and constructive attitude, so we can put this legislation in place as soon as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, i should like to really warmly welcome mrs svensson’s report and to congratulate her on her excellent work. she has been a brilliant rapporteur and we have got a very positive result. it is very clear that parliament is united in saying that there should be no derogations that would compromise the integrity and the effectiveness of a ban. however, i must say that, in terms of this legislation being forthcoming from the commission, we have had to wait quite a long time. i remember writing to commissioner byrne back in 2002 calling for a ban on cat and dog fur. we were told simply that it was a very complex issue and the commission was reflecting. what worries me about that is that in a sense this slowness is being repeated on another issue that i want to turn your minds to, which is the issue of banning imports of seal products. again, parliament is being told that it is a complex issue. exactly the same language is being used again now, when it comes to seal products, as was used back in 2002 about cat and dog fur. as the draftsperson in the committee on international trade, i tabled amendments to the cat and dog proposal, not suggesting that we try to include seals – that would be too much – but at least asking the commission to bring forward similar legislation to deal with imports of seal products. this was agreed by the committee on international trade. the commissioner said earlier that there was no lack of political will when it came to dealing with the cat and dog issue, what was lacking was an imaginative legal base. i urge the commissioner and his services to be extraordinarily imaginative and to recognise that europe’s citizens feel the same revulsion about cat and dog fur as they feel about imports of seal products. we must have legislation coming forward very urgently on that issue as well.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, i wish to begin by expressing my very warm thanks to mrs svensson for a brilliant piece of work and a brilliant report. i also wish to thank mrs mccarthy for her dedication and commitment to steering this very important report through parliament. however, most of all, i am grateful for the great courage of commissioner kyprianou, because, as mrs lucas has just said, the previous commissioner told us that it was impossible and there would never be a legal basis. i remember commissioner kyprianou saying to me, ‘as a lawyer, if i went round telling clients that things were impossible, i would never make a living!’. he has fulfilled his pledge. it is music to my ears to hear this debate this evening, because it has taken eight years to get this far, with the help of humane society international. betsy dribben, who used to work for humane society international, has flown over from washington and is in the public gallery tonight, and many thanks are due to her for her dogged campaigning. humane society international estimates that, every year, about two million cats and dogs are killed in china alone to supply the fashion market in europe with items like this little toy, which the rapporteur mentioned – little cats, which mums and dads buy for their kids because they are cat and dog lovers, not realising that they have been made out of real cat and dog skin from animals that have been brutally killed. the trade buys these cat skins to make collars for trim for parka hoods and ski boot and ski glove linings and all sorts of fashion items. this has been a fraud perpetrated on the public. the public are never told that they are buying items made of real cat and dog fur. sometimes it is even dyed to look like fake fur and given false labels to fool the public. i am glad that, at long last, there will very soon be a regulation on the statute books in all 27 member states banning this evil trade. i thank the commissioner and everyone else who has been involved in achieving that.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, in fact mr stevenson is right: eight years ago labour meps were calling for an end to the cruel trade in cat and dog fur. commissioner, you will probably remember that the late phillip whitehead, the former chairman of the committee on internal market and consumer protection, asked you as a commission to take action. on 30 december last year, i received a petition on behalf of concerned citizens signed by over a quarter of a million people calling for us to bring in that ban. we have acted, but i believe that it is the citizens, in their determination, and animal welfare campaigners who should take the credit for this new law and for helping us to persuade you, commissioner, to give us the legal power to ban it. there is plenty of evidence of the inhuman treatment of cats and dogs bred for fur. animal welfare organisations have been contacting my office and welcoming the law. their only criticism is that it has taken us too long. but this law is also about protecting consumers who have unwittingly been deceived into buying clothes, toys and household products made from cat and dog fur. i would say that people power can win the day over bureaucracy and legal barriers. i want to stress to the commission and to the member states that the committee’s negotiating team wanted the eu to adopt the highest international standards and best practices in ensuring we ban this obscene trade and that cat and dog fur products do not end up in the shops by the back door. so can i just be very clear: we insist no loopholes are created by not possible derogations, exceptional derogations. that is the language of the agreement we made with the commission and the member states. we insist on a report back on how the ban is being implemented and action if it is not working. we expect member states to take their responsibilities seriously in both implementing and enforcing the ban. there must be tough and dissuasive penalties to deter the cat and dog fur traders. in short, a ban must mean a ban in principle and in practice – not a restriction enabling continuation of the trade by the back door.
madam president, over one million europeans have lobbied in favour of banning the import of cat and dog fur into the eu. the commission listened to the european parliament and reacted by taking legislative action to ban the import of cat and dog fur. i welcome this and hope that we will see an end to the barbaric trade which accounts for the slaughter of over two million cats and dogs each year. however, we do not just want warm words. some constituents have raised concerns that loopholes in the commission’s proposal may allow imports via the back door. i recently tabled a written question asking the commission about derogations that might allow the trade to continue. the reply that i received gave information on two derogations, one relating to fur that was part of personal or household effects being brought into the eu, and the other relating to fur or products containing fur that have not been bred or killed for fur production. i welcome the fact that the european parliament report deletes these derogations and i urge colleagues to fully support this report. we want to be sure that cat and dog fur will not be imported into the eu.
madam president, i welcome the fact that several eu countries – france, italy, denmark, greece and belgium – moved unilaterally to ban the trade. however, there are differences in the approaches of other member states, ranging from bans on rearing and slaughter to labelling requirements. these differences can cause problems for consumers, retailers and traders alike. that is why, as we all know, an eu-wide ban is so important if we want an end to this vile trade. we have already heard that 2 million dogs and cats are slaughtered each year for their fur and that it takes at least 10 dogs and up to 24 cats to make a single coat. these animals live in horrific conditions and many are skinned alive. since the us brought in a ban, more cat and dog fur is coming into the eu. the problem is that many customers do not know what they are buying, as cat and dog fur is quite often labelled as fake fur. it is also included in a variety of products other than clothing, such as some homeopathic medicines, children’s toys and accessories. i welcome the debate tonight and the vote tomorrow and i congratulate the commissioner on his commitment.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, there are approximately 400 000 people with multiple sclerosis within the eu. louise mcvay’s petition brought our attention to ms in 2003 and it is only right that, three and a half years on, the commission reports on the progress it has made in ensuring that the code of best practice, in particular, is implemented. the 2003 resolution called for equal access to health care for people with ms, but some drugs, like beta interferon, are still not uniformly available. in the uk we have a postcode lottery for this drug, with availability depending on where someone lives. in poland only 1% of people with ms are treated with disease-modifying drugs, compared to 50% in sweden. people with ms should be cared for in the best way possible, as called for by the code of best practice. it also calls for people with ms to be able to retain their jobs and obtain sufficient help and support to remain in mainstream society. that is why, as the commissioner said, it is so important for the employment directive 2000 to be implemented equally across the eu. this year is the year of equal opportunities for all. let us hope that it is also the year that we get a firm timetable for specific directives to outlaw discrimination in access to goods and services as well.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as mr schulz said, there can be no justification for the actions of hamas militants, however badly the palestinians have been treated. and yet, if one year ago the international community had not reneged on its commitment to democracy in palestine, if we had not refused dialogue with hamas moderates and suspended direct aid payments to a freely elected government, the situation would not be as bad as it is today. financial sanctions designed to force recognition of israel or to push hamas out of power altogether have simply made the palestinians more desperate and prospects for peace more precarious. a two-state palestine is emerging, riddled by violence, sectarianism and fear, while a two-state solution to the conflict is moving further away. liberals and democrats are disappointed – though not surprised – by what has come to pass. a year ago, we warned that palestinian suffering would lead to greater extremism, particularly in gaza’s prison conditions, where 1.4 million citizens have been systematically sealed-off and starved of their basic necessities. last week’s violent takeover of gaza bespoke a lack of respect for the rule of law, which is a de minimis requirement for any legitimate government. if hamas is not careful, it will have betrayed its cause and, in the words of saudi arabia’s foreign minister, ‘put the last nail in the coffin’ of the dream of a palestinian state. unless we want civil war to triumph over unity, all sides must face the facts: their refusal of dialogue has got them nowhere. a heavy dose of pragmatism is now required – not condemnation, not sanctions, and certainly not a refusal to negotiate. that is the coward’s option and one which will backfire. to that end, my group welcomes prime minister salam fayyad’s determination to restore security and president abbas’s commitment to dialogue. we welcome resumption of direct aid to the palestinian authority and the prospective release of up to usd 800 million in palestinian tax revenues by the israeli administration. however, we caution against supporting the west bank administration at the expense of gaza. if you consider the strip a ‘terrorist entity’ – as israeli officials have called it – you will not bring the region any closer to peace, you simply create more insecurity as a desperate people, deprived of food and other essentials, decides it has nothing left to lose. hamas control of gaza was the nightmare that became reality. however, the european union must not be prepared to take a back seat and watch as iran becomes a player in the contest. if this year has taught us nothing else, it is that politics – and politics alone – can create prospects for peace in the middle east. while parliament, at least, kept talking, the council and the member states took to the sidelines. it is now up to the council and our member states to put democracy, human dignity and the rule of law back at the centre of proceedings and work to foster peace in the region. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, for us and for my fellow members of this committee of inquiry, an 18-month journey comes to an end today. this document can leave my desk and come to your desk, commissioner. last week, in preparing for today, i was asked by a journalist whether i would buy a financial services product cross-border. that rather set me thinking, because i hesitated in my answer. i said, ‘well, perhaps i know too much’. i know too much as a result of this inquiry and it makes me somewhat concerned – indeed, more than somewhat concerned. would i even, after this, buy a financial services product at home, in my country, the uk, where all this occurred? and that is a financial centre that is meant to be among the best in the european union. this whole issue of the sad crisis of equitable life goes very much to the heart of the issue of consumer confidence in our internal market. it goes to the heart of the issue of whether we will have confidence as european citizens to save for the future, for our pensions and other investments. if we, as legislators, cannot get the regulatory regime right for the internal market, then we are storing up huge problems for the future. so, what happened here with equitable life? one and a half million policyholders from 15 member states were victims of the crisis at equitable life. this is truly a crisis on a european scale and one that also has to be dealt with at a european level. i think we all understand and appreciate the importance of financial services companies – and indeed other companies – being able to trade and do business across the european union on the basis of what is sometimes called home/host country of control, or country of origin control. but if we are going to do this – and it is clear that we are – we have to be absolutely crystal clear who is responsible for what. it certainly was not clear in this particular case. a few weeks ago, commissioner, i was involved in a conciliation where we spent several hours on another piece of legislation known as rome ii, trying to get right the relationship between country of origin and other community instruments. but this is not just a semantic or a drafting exercise for us. somebody said to me at the end of the process, ‘well, every side can read into this what they would like’. that should not be the case. we have got to be clear where responsibility lies, for the sake of the people whose lives are affected by this. what i and my colleagues saw in this equitable life case were victims, say in germany or ireland, going to the regulators in their countries and the regulator there saying, ‘sorry, not us, not our responsibility’. then those victims wended their way to the uk regulator, who said, ‘sorry, not me, you are not my problem’. that must reveal either a fault in our primary legislation or a fault in the way it has been implemented in the uk or other member states. we have got to sort this out. we have got to have clarity in the future as to who is responsible for our citizens who end up suffering at the end of this. so, we found that there was failure in the uk regulatory regime combined with a lack of clarity about home/host problems, perhaps; about being too deferential to a financial institution which had existed for hundreds of years; about a regulatory regime that was, perhaps, in the general parlance, too ‘light touch’. we know that we cannot eliminate all risk but we can certainly do better. we have opened up the market, but let us be clear: no mobility without liability. there has to be this balance. there has to be the protective side. and what have we put there, on the protective side? we have a european group of regulators, ceiops, who meet. it is getting better but it is a kind of voluntary meeting or early-warning system. it is not the hard black-letter law that allows the entry into the market. so, we know that cross-border cooperation is getting better, but we believe that there is still more that can be done and that, when they look at this in renewing the siena protocol, they can do better. then, of course, we are meant to have systems of alternative dispute resolution to help our citizens when things go wrong. i am a great fan of adr, but, frankly, what we have put in place, up against an open market, is pathetic. the irish and the uk systems are meant to be the best! i do not doubt that they are, but it worries me about what happens in other member states. let us get fin-net, the network of adr in financial services, working properly in every member state so that our citizens can be assured that there is something there to help them when things go wrong. where is the coherent system of cross-border access to justice in the eu? well, it might be there for those with deep pockets to understand the complexities of what goes on, but we feel that in order to answer this, you need to allow citizens to act collectively, cross-border and that we need a mechanism to do this. i know many people get scared about this, but it was quite clear to us that at the moment there is inequality of outcome and lack of access to justice cross-border. we must do better. the petitioners in this case who came to us originally were persistent, patient, dogged. they did not give up, although they knew that they were taking on the uk state. indeed, at first the commission told us that nothing could be done here. but we have learnt a great deal in this journey about the implementation process. in the future, it must be much more proactive, not just about checklists and tick boxes. we know it is getting better. the quality of our legislation must be more transparent. we must have citizens’ summaries, so that citizens can understand what is about, and correlation tables so that we know where our legislation has gone in the member states. better implementation means a proactive commission combined with a watchful parliament. i would like to thank all my colleagues and the secretariat who have worked together with us on this report. we have had a once in a lifetime opportunity as parliamentarians. i believe this report will assist the victims in a pincer movement with the uk parliamentary ombudsman, perhaps finally to deliver compensation. more importantly, i hope it will deliver a huge jolt to our institutions about our lawmaking processes and the european system of justice. commissioner, this is now yours – but not just yours, i hope. it is also for the commissioner for justice and the commissioner for consumer affairs. we are waiting for your answers.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, in 2004 the committee on petitions received two petitions on behalf of policyholders of equitable life throughout the eu. at my behest and with the support of many colleagues across the political spectrum, parliament set up an enquiry into equitable life under the distinguished chairmanship of my honourable friend, mrs mcguiness. we heard from some of the thousands who suffered financial and emotional stress in the united kingdom, ireland, germany and many other countries. we questioned officials, advisers, journalists and even – unsatisfactorily – the chief executive, but representatives of the british regulators and the british government were conspicuous by their absence. we discovered the incorrect implementation of eu law by the uk government; structural weaknesses within, and failure to communicate between, the uk and other member states’ financial regulatory systems; the failure of the european commission to monitor adequately the implementation of eu law by individual member states; the dubious actions of the staff and senior management of equitable life; the ineffectiveness of the financial redress system available to victims; and dereliction of duty and the failure to respect policyholders’ reasonable expectations by those regulators. we made a number of recommendations, which, as the commissioner said, amount to some 47. chief amongst them is the belief that the transposition of the third life directive was inadequate and, therefore, action needs to be taken in that respect. we need to ensure that citizens of the eu have redress for grievances throughout the eu, not just in the country in which the company is based. but, above all, i demand, and my colleagues in the conservative party demand, that the british government make recompense to those policyholders who have suffered because of the failure of the regulatory system and of the ministers involved.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have followed this matter for many years due to my long association with aylesbury, the headquarters town of equitable life, which was affected through job losses, as well as having many policyholders. therefore, i am very glad that this parliament has examined the circumstances surrounding the demise of equitable life and i hope that our conclusions give some comfort to policyholders in that many of their suspicions and allegations appear well founded. i am grateful to the frankness of some – unfortunately not all – of our witnesses. some of the evidence we have taken is astonishing and an eye-opener for the future. perhaps we had suspected so, but is it enough that the commission’s check on implementation of directives is just a tick-box exercise? i am glad that it is acknowledged now that it is not enough. we were told frequently – and in many respects i can agree – that the supervisory environment is already very changed and will become more so with the solvency ii directive. however, we also heard that it is not certain that all supervisors are immune to bullying, which was an issue in this case. as the commissioner has said, solvency ii is not a zero-failure regime, nor is it intended to be. however, it is clear from this inquiry that consumers and policyholders expect their investments to be safe and for there to be accountability and liability when something goes wrong. any less than that and it is a futile wish to see growth in the uptake of personal pensions. so, whatever the risk of failure, this means we cannot duck the issue of compensation, and while it may not be appropriate to make solvency ii into a christmas tree with baubles for everything, it is certainly necessary to have parallel work under way on compensation mechanisms. alongside that, we have the shameful hiding of facts because of the changes in the uk’s supervisory regime from dti to treasury to the fsa, and now we have a so-called independent fsa without liability for negligence. looking forward, that has implications for the supervised businesses, as well as for policyholders, and it requires attention. maybe all the more so, as changes push other supervisory structures in other countries towards the fsa model and this links us back again and into wider issues of compensation. so, looking to the future, we must take very seriously, in its widest interpretation, paragraph 14 of the remedies that states: ‘there should always be a fully liable chain of responsibility for regulation. the chain of accountability should not be broken including when there is reform of regulatory procedures/bodies’.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, nobody comes out of this with any great honour, do they? but of course we are dealing yet again with the abandonment of the concept of caveat emptor. as a financial economist, i knew that equitable life was unsound in the middle of the 1990s, but it marketed its plans direct to the public with the sales line ‘there are no middle men’. well, the middle men were the professionals, but the something-for-nothing culture came to the fore yet again. what about the elephant in the room, the national provident institution? same sort of problem, but they did not have the same number of lawyers and politicians who made up their client bank. so are we talking about a common regulatory policy like the common agricultural policy, or the common fisheries policy? why do they not adopt our audit and accounting systems here? god help us! taxpayers’ money for failed investment? this is a very slippery slope, ladies and gentlemen. marconi shares? institutional pension funds? where does it end? sometimes investments go wrong, and that’s life. it is sad, but we have to put up with it.
on behalf of the its group. – mr president, this report says that the british government should set up a compensation scheme for victims. a report in the scotland on sunday newspaper interpreted that as meaning that there would be full compensation – if only! throughout our committee’s investigations, we saw almost no party politics. it was a search for the facts, despite the refusal of key witnesses to face our questions. but then, towards the end, party politics inevitably kicked in and this report is a pale shadow of what it might have been. it has few teeth and it does not bite hard enough. the british parliamentary ombudsman has deliberately delayed her report on the same subject to trump this one, as the committee was warned would happen. instead of directly helping victims, this one will be discredited and undermined by a deceitful ploy of the british government that is afraid to face up to its obligations. this report should have categorically insisted on full compensation for all victims, regardless of their status. it should have called for the british government to reimburse them for their hardship and the damages they have suffered. above all, it should have demanded that the british government implement such a scheme without equivocation and without delay. tragically, it does none of these things. not much has emerged from the eu for the direct benefit of ordinary individuals in the uk, but this was just for once an opportunity to prove that the eu could be of real help to real people. it is well known that i am no supporter of british membership of this institution, but even i thought that this was a golden opportunity for the federalists to prove their worth. it was an open goal and they have missed it. over 30 years ago, when i was still scriptwriting for a living, a major life insurance company – not this one – asked me to write their entire training programme. afterwards i was so appalled that i sold all my life policies. thirty years on, it seems nothing has changed.
mr president, this report and this debate are more relevant to the real concerns of many of our constituents than many debates held in this house. there are many individuals for whom the losses through the collapse of equitable life were quite devastating. promised returns and anticipated comfortable retirements evaporated overnight, and to this day it is these individuals who remain the losers. this report makes a number of pertinent points, but on its own it can do very little to ease the plight of those who have lost money. perhaps that is no surprise, because the committee of inquiry was unable to compel witnesses to appear and thus it was never going to be able to do more than highlight the issues and, at best, perhaps help others in the future. only the united kingdom government, through a compensation scheme, can bring meaningful relief to the policyholders, of whom there are many in my constituency. i do not believe that more eu control over financial services or meddling in domestic legislation is the answer. robust controls and supervision of the sector with paramount protection for investors are required, and that must come through national legislation and strict regulatory oversight. finally, i trust that the forthcoming report by the uk’s parliamentary ombudsman will grasp the issues and will resist the pressure that it is under to whitewash the equitable life scandal.
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur and colleagues on the committee who have worked so assiduously on this case, as well as the petitioners who are present here. i am the appointed rapporteur for the house on solvency ii. some of these points, particularly on home/host supervision, will not be lost in this debate. in fact, as i am sure most people know, this is one of the things we are taking forward. there are also considerable changes to the laws and to the apparatus of financial supervision which have occurred during the time of the equitable life crisis. indeed, the company still exists today. it was not a failure as was first suggested in the report, but only a crisis – a crisis enough, which actually affected a million people. but, as everyone knows, there is still a process to continue, which of course means that british, irish and german claimants will be able to look to the ombudsman’s report – as somebody has already said – later this year. i hope the issue of compensation and other issues will be settled there, where they should be. unfortunately, there were some errors in this report and it is not to my great pleasure to have to point them out. firstly, there was no compliance or little compliance by appear before the committee. ministers attended the meetings they said they could, not, as the report suggested, maybe by avoiding them. i was there. i met the british ministers at the same time as everybody else. they even supplied correspondence which was missing from other governments, which frankly, in my opinion, should have been taken into account. thirdly, i totally disagree that the implementation of this particular directive was a failure, if you look at the process. if it was a failure, then perhaps sir robert atkins can explain how that failure actually occurred, which was when he was in government. i am afraid that this report is weak where it should be strong and could deliver, and strong where it is unable to deliver. for example in the area of supervision, where it could do something and where it will do something. i, as the rapporteur in solvency ii, promise that we will be doing something on the coordination of home/host supervision across member states, so that victims will never be bandied about pillar to post by regulators. i look to the commissioner to help me on that issue.
mr president, firstly i should like to thank mrs mcguinness for the very able way she chaired the committee and how she largely managed to keep politics out of the debate. i should also like to thank mrs wallis for all the work she has put in as rapporteur on a very complex case. of course, these are real people who have lost real money. many had set aside this money for their retirement, for their families, and they have had real hardship due to this crisis. i pay tribute to them for bringing their case here. also, of course, you have to remember that equitable life was a very long-standing company, so people had great faith in this financial institution. our own house or commons in westminster actually had pensions systems tied up with equitable life, so how can you blame anybody for actually putting money into their policies? we had evidence before the committee where there was no doubt that the with-profit policies that were being offered were being offered at too high a rate, and the company could not carry on paying out this money. we had actuaries coming to tell us that the company was basically becoming insolvent if it carried on paying out at such a rate. but yet of course everybody changed at the right time so that when the new company came in and the new management came in, they were not responsible for what happened before. in a single market people expect recompense when they buy policies in ireland, germany or the uk, and does it actually matter whether it is the eu or the member state that is responsible? what matters is for the people who have had those policies to be recompensed. and that is where i join with sir robert atkins and others in demanding that the british government look very seriously at recompensing people that have lost real money. like i said, there is no doubt that we have found that the proper regulation was not carried out. i recommend this report to parliament.
mr president, firstly i would like to correct my colleague, sir robert atkins. he said that the committee of inquiry was set up at his behest. those who worked in the committee on petitions will remember that it was at my behest, but i will share that equally with him. he said, and i have to correct him, that the british government was conspicuous by its absence and so was the regulator. where was he when we met with the chief secretary of the treasury and the regulator? sadly, he was conspicuous by his absence. we need no lectures from previous conservative governments, which actually twiddled their thumbs whilst people’s pension policies burned. i welcome this report, but sadly i cannot fully support it. i believe it strays into areas where it should not go. it fails to properly recognise the measures and provisions which the labour government has put in place since 1997. the report strays into areas such as the role of the rapporteur post-parliament, the role of the rapporteur at eu member state level, and i do not consider this appropriate. it is intervening in the sovereign member state parliaments and their legal obligations under the treaty. yes, it makes helpful suggestions regarding the single market and responsibility of the host state with regard to financial services, but does it alter the plight of the victims, two of whom are sitting in the gallery today? sadly, it does not. they are victims of mis-selling, and it was because of their plight that we set up this temporary committee of inquiry. i also commend the work of the chairman of this committee of inquiry. sadly, it will not help the victims. it is full of promise and no guarantee. that is why i have urged all along that we ask that the parties involved, including the uk government, adhere to any recommendations that may come from the british parliamentary ombudsman. if there is compensation, let us be clear: it is the british taxpayer who will pick up the tab. the labour group will not vote against this report but it will abstain because of the reasons i have already outlined. sadly, i must agree with an earlier contribution that party politics has crept into this and it will not serve the victims of the equitable life crisis.
mr president, many investors, including pensioners, suffered losses in the bear market between 2000 and 2003. the difference in the case of equitable life was negligence. the actuarial function was neutralised, and the business model was akin to riding a wobbly bicycle: so long as they kept selling they could just keep upright. but when the music stopped, what then? it amounted to a selling machine cashing in on centuries of respectability but which was in fact a house of cards, built on shifting sand and known to be such by equitable life management and by the regulator. so how did equitable life get away with it? they were operating under an eu directive which was supposedly policed by the responsible uk regulator. the regulator knew the foundations of equitable life were ramshackle but hoped against hope that all would come right with time, or else a white knight in shining armour would buy them out. therefore, the selling was allowed to continue long after it should have been stopped. why did they allow a management structure where the statutory actuary was also the chief executive? why did they allow equitable life to go on selling at home and into other member states when they were the responsible home regulator and were fully aware of equitable life’s condition? this is not just a sad tale; it is a tale of negligence. it is just not acceptable for member states to exonerate their regulators from negligence if the country of origin and the home/host system of regulation is to work in the european single market for financial services. commissioner, you must insist in future, in particular in solvency ii, that member states and their regulators are fully liable for negligence. member states cannot be allowed to exonerate them from this liability.
mr president, it is my belief that most women in europe who choose to have a family do not do this under duress. it is a choice they make generally in conjunction with their partner and invariably they understand and have discussed the social, educational and financial consequences of having a child. but they choose to have a child because it is a truly wonderful thing to do. many member states, including mine, endeavour through many means to give women the choice, having had their family, to go back into education or into the workplace. from this perspective this report, or at least its title, is worthy of political discussion. the report correctly points out in recital a that education and the family fall within national competence and responsibility. and thank heavens it does, because reading this report you can see why the european public struggle to take this parliament seriously and why, thankfully, member states will not budge on giving this competence to europe. i shall cite two paragraphs. paragraph 30 recommends that member states ‘facilitate the granting of extension of social benefits to students from other member states who have dependent children’. in my country, as you know, the debate on immigration is very hot and this would simply be unacceptable to even my socialist opponents from my country. paragraph 10 calls on the member states to ‘reduce or put an end to taxation of young men and women who both study and who have family responsibilities or responsibilities towards dependants’. that is everyone! every single person – so no-one pays tax and government completely stops. we can learn a lot about how to improve the lives of women who wish to combine family life with a period of study by looking across the different best practices that exist across europe, especially in the northern member states. i would suggest, however, that the committee on women’s rights in this house has proven itself to be almost uniquely the worst place for this discussion to take place.
mr president, what is the best time to have a child? there is no simple answer to this question, and women have to balance having children with work and education demands. the lisbon agenda is well known for its goal that by 2010 europe should become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth together with quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion. it has been calculated that this would increase the overall employment rate in the eu to 70% and the employment rate for women to more than 60% by 2010. this has obvious implications for women and decisions about family, work and education. education and training have obvious benefits for individuals and society as a whole. at the same time, women often delay having children because of the demands of work and study. i welcome the commission’s recognition in its recent communication on reconciling professional, private and family life, that public policy should also be addressed to young women and men who are still in higher education. we need to make it easier to combine family life with studying. unfortunately, few eu countries have a range of social and economic measures to help the students who are parents. students with family responsibilities face considerable difficulties in their university courses and their daily lives. they have special needs, in particular with regard to housing, childcare services and course flexibility. this particularly affects women, as they are more likely to give up studies due to childcare commitments. this builds in disadvantages for women which we have to address. i urge colleagues to support this report.
thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed, the vote will take place shortly. (the sitting was suspended at 12.00 and resuned at 12.05)
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a real report this time. it is a report that represents 18 months of work of a committee of inquiry of this house. this morning whilst we were having the debate, colleagues from various different groups approached me and said that they would like a roll-call vote. we should have requested it yesterday, but in view of the number of colleagues who have come to me, i wonder if we could now do that.
in writing. i will be voting for this report. i accept the need to bring the rules respecting vodka more closely in line with those of whisky. yet at the same time i hope we will continue to pay attention to the plight of those small producers of ‘apple and pear spirit’ within the united kingdom who in the past have suffered from unfair discrimination.
in writing. i have been reassured that the compromise reached will not be detrimental to scottish whisky. i therefore support this report.
in writing. a ban on the import of cat and dog fur into the eu must be fully implemented. that is why i cannot support the derogations suggested by the commission, but fully support the report.
in writing. i believe that there should be a public service obligation imposed on service providers of broadband technology. as someone who lives in a village in gloucestershire, that only within the last 12 months or so has had access to broadband, i know the economic consequences of exclusion. i accept that the installation of broadband will start with the more populous and accessible regions, but it should not be allowed to stop until over 99% of the population is covered. service providers cannot be allowed to cherry-pick without adverse consequences for peripheral regions and economies. i will vote in favour of this report as it is going a long way in the right direction, if not quite reaching my final destination.
in writing. the eplp believes that the general approach of the rapporteur was the right one. however, on the issue of the common consolidated corporate tax base, the eplp keeps its long established view that this is a case of national sovereignty. as such, we voted against the second part of paragraph 13.
in writing. ukip refuses to support the recommendation of the equitable life enquiry on a number of grounds. principally that recommendations include a common regulatory policy similar in concept to the common agricultural and fisheries policies, which have proved disastrous. also a recommendation that taxpayers should compensate equitable life policy holders but not national provident institution policy holders or failed institutional pension scheme members whose case is no less convincing.
in writing. the eplp supported the setting up of this committee because it believed parliament could use it as an opportunity to provide clarification and learn lessons from the equitable life crisis and give a voice to the victims. several of the facts of the crisis and its aftermath were not included in the report, so the final result is not balanced. the report has also been used by the opposition parties to attack the labour government, while misleading the policyholders by falsely raising their expectations. this vote is on a recommendation to adopt the findings of the report and not the report itself, following the committee vote there were no further opportunities to amend or improve the text. therefore the eplp abstains on this vote.
in writing. ukip refuses to support the recommendation of the equitable life inquiry on a number of grounds, principally that recommendations include a common regulatory policy similar in concept to the common agricultural and fisheries policies, which have proved disastrous. also a recommendation that taxpayers should compensate equitable life policyholders but not national provident institution policyholders or failed institutional pension scheme members whose case is no less convincing.
in writing. i will be abstaining on this report. when the committee of inquiry was established, i thought it would be an important opportunity to learn important lessons from the near-collapse of equitable life and provide some explanations to those who were the victims. the problem is that the report disappoints with sins of both omission and commission. it falsely raises the hopes and expectations of policyholders and has been used in a blatant political way to attack the government. in the circumstances of a committee of inquiry report where there is no possibility, in line with our rules, to table amendments, i cannot in all conscience vote in favour of the report.
in writing. ukip refuses to support the recommendation of the equitable life enquiry on a number of grounds. principally that recommendations include a common regulatory policy similar in concept to the common agricultural and fisheries policies, which have proved disastrous. also a recommendation that taxpayers should compensate equitable life policy holders but not national provident institution policy holders or failed institutional pension scheme members whose case is no less convincing.
in writing. work-life balance and work-study-life balance is essential for a healthy and happy workforce. young women who study and have childcare responsibilities need to be given greater support across the eu.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you very much for being here, giving the status that these issues deserve in this parliament. i should also like to thank the commissioner for his kind remarks. i think many of us here deeply regret the fact that the council chose not to be represented here today in discussions on the g8 and the millennium development goals. we are sorry that priorities took them elsewhere. my report is an opportunity at the midway point to assess progress or otherwise on meeting the millennium development goals. of course the reality is that many sub-saharan countries are not on track to meet even one of the mdgs. virtually no country in africa is on track to achieve the millennium development goals for child and maternal health. that is why our committee agreed that the european union should continue to lead on efforts to support sexual and reproductive health rights through funding and other support. in 2005, the leaders of the rich world met at the g8 summit in gleneagles and undertook to double annual aid to poor countries to usd 50 billion, and to give 100% debt cancellation. in may 2005, the eu council had already set the agenda for the gleneagles summit which took place in july of that year. they had agreed – and this is important – a time-bound commitment to meeting the 0.7% of gni and 100% debt relief. at the time of writing my report, it was clear that were serious questions of credibility in relation to certain member states of the european union. this is where i have a fundamental disagreement with the commissioner. excluding debt relief, a number of member states are falling behind. the iraq and nigerian debt deals have been counted in such a way as to distort the true picture on real aid. it is estimated that it amounted to some usd 13 billion in 2006. in 2010, when aid to africa is supposed to reach usd 50 billion a year, debt relief would have been largely accounted for and would therefore no longer bolster the amount of aid a country gives. the shortfall is now estimated by oxfam to be an absolutely shocking usd 30 billion. at the g8, we saw efforts by some member states of the european union to press for the promises to be met. but what we saw, as you said commissioner, was a reiteration and confirmation of the 2005 promises to increase aid. we are still lacking clear timetables and binding practical commitments. we need more specifics and clear financial pledges which will, for instance, fill in the funding gaps for the countries endorsed by the education fast track initiative. we also need clarity on the pledge to scale up universal access to hiv/aids. they talk about 5 million people in 2010. we want to know whether this is a global figure, because, if it is, it should be more like 10 million. if it only applies to africa, then the communiqué is presenting a somewhat different picture. of course, again, there is no specific target date. the reality is that developing countries do not want some kind of cheque in the post or some kind of promissory note. they want to be able to put credible and costed plans in place, as our own governments do. on climate change, all the g8s except the us and russia agreed to cut emissions by half by 2050. the us commitment to join in with the un efforts was welcome. however, again i have to say that there were no clear binding targets, and even the 50% by 2050 target had no base year agreed by the g8 in germany. there is also no agreed intention to limit climate change to 2°c. in the context of the importance we attach to debt relief and to pledges on aid, we know that the whole issue of trade justice continues to elude us. last year in the g8 in st petersburg they issued a grand clarion call for the doha round to reach a successful conclusion, but what you see, in fact, is a far cry from what developing countries thought they were signing up to when they signed up to a doha development round. all the g8 in germany did was to repeat what they said in st petersburg a year ago. on epas, i particularly recommend mr van den berg’s amendment, which unfortunately was left out of the text that you have here because an error was made when the compilation took place. i think it makes a very valuable addition to the debate on epas. finally, i would like to say that what we need to see now is an absolute change of gear. in 2005, thousands of our citizens across the world marched under the banner of making poverty history. we are seeing that aid really works. there are real improvements in reducing poverty, getting children into school, improving health and saving lives. however, there has to be real social and political change, as well as the growing understanding that what we are calling for here is not for charity but rather for justice for the world’s developing countries. (applause)
mr president, i want to talk about the g8 summit and make two points. the first is on climate change. this was good news, because the us agreed to stay within the un process, but bad news that no binding targets were agreed and worse news, in a way, that we made no progress on getting the emerging economies, like india, brazil and china, within the process. commissioner, we have a lot of work to do in the run-up to bali. i know you are not the lead commissioner for climate change, but as the commissioner for development, you have a key role to play in keeping the momentum on climate change going because, as you know, the poor in the developing world are already paying the price of climate change. therefore, i hope you will be putting that at the top of your agenda. while the poor pay the price, if we look at the other key aspect of the g8, foreign aid, we see that the rich pay lip service. looking at the figures, we see that the g8 is way off track on aid to the developing world and, amongst those, eu countries are some of the worst performers. commissioner, my theory is that we will be back here in two or three years’ time, lamenting yet again the failure to make progress on foreign aid. the pledge to double aid was made at an eu summit. are you keeping a scoreboard on this, or do we have to rely on ngos to give us the score? in fact, we should be looking at scoreboards on climate change and on aid, because what mr mitchell said earlier about credibility and the eu is correct. people out there will judge us on how we perform on the issues they really care about: tackling climate change and poverty. the constitution issue is important to us, but not to the public. therefore, unless we deliver on those issues, we will not have much credibility with the outside world.
mr president, as usual, mrs kinnock has produced a good report, but producing a good report, as we all do in this parliament, is not enough. i am very concerned that in paragraph 40 and, in particular, paragraph 41 of her report, mrs kinnock mentions the maputo plan. the maputo plan, as i understand it, promotes abortion and goes far beyond the cairo declaration. the united nations declaration of the rights of the child states that the child, by reason of his physical or mental immaturity, needs specific safeguards and care, including appropriate legal protection, before as well as after birth. according to the un, some 8.5 million people around the world die every year because of starvation. this is in contrast to the 46 million children who are aborted each year according to the who. that is about the same as or more than the population of spain. that means that from the moment you are conceived, you are five times more likely to die through abortion than starvation. contrast the 46 million abortions with the total of 56 million people who die in the world each year. forty-six million abortions is also in contrast to the 70 000 women who sadly make the choice to have an illegal abortion and die because of it. therefore, the ratio is that for every one woman who falls pregnant and then dies because of an illegal abortion, 650 viable children are aborted in the womb – what should be, as nature intended, the safest place in the world for a baby to grow. i strongly urge my colleagues to vote against paragraphs 40 and 41 which have nothing to do with maternal mortality, which is supposed to be the theme of mdg 5. nor have these paragraphs anything to do with either sexual or reproductive rights because abortion has no connection to sexuality: it is not healthy, it is obviously not about reproduction – quite the opposite – and in my view, it is certainly not a right.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i really enjoyed hearing the commissioner say that the joint parliamentary assembly was now a robust organisation. it certainly is. i would like to thank him for his loyal participation in each of the jpas so far. i would also like to note that the president of parliament will attend the session next week in wiesbaden, as did his predecessor, president borrell, who is now a member of the joint parliamentary assembly. this involvement is very important and gives status and importance to the joint parliamentary assembly, which, as others have said, including mr cornillet in his excellent report and presentation, continues to grow and to thrive. that is because it is nurtured by so many committed and active parliamentarians, from the acp and from this parliament. we enjoy very active collaboration in the joint parliamentary assembly and, again as mr cornillet says, the parliamentary nature of our work has noticeably increased. we have a wide-ranging agenda and, whatever lists we may wish to make, all our work relates to the cotonou partnership agreement, which is a binding, contractual agreement between europe and the acp member states. the nature of the partnership between all those countries is absolutely unique. what makes it so is the obligation within the cotonou partnership treaty to have this parliamentary dimension. that is something we should be very proud of. another important point is that we have worked very hard to improve the ability of parliamentarians from acp countries to scrutinise the actions of the executive and the governments in their countries. they also have to hold their governments to account, because that is what parliamentarians are meant to do. but, quite frankly, in most of the acp countries where we have talked and worked with parliamentarians, they are seldom brought into the ambit of the work undertaken by their governments. the commission has been somewhat guilty in this respect as well, because in consultations, such as on the country strategy papers, they have had written into the agreements the need for negotiations and consultations with civil society. i have no problem with that; that is very good. on the other hand, parliamentarians are the elected representatives and i would like to see much more engagement by them in programming, in implementation, in monitoring and in evaluation. we also need to urge european national parliaments to scrutinise the european development fund. they can help us in that way. i think that the work of the joint parliamentary assembly has changed over the 13 years i have been a member, and for the better. it used to be the case that it was completely dominated by european parliamentarians. i think all of us here can fairly say that is no longer the case.
mr president, i welcome this report from my colleague mr cornillet. it provides a concise and comprehensive summary of the work of the joint parliamentary assembly last year. the annual report is a good moment to take stock and consider what is working well in the jpa and what could work better. we are answerable to our electors about whether non-legislative bodies, such as the jpa, are good value for money. i would suggest three positive indicators that the jpa is robust, as was said earlier, and that it is earning its keep and increasing in relevance. as the rapporteur said, the involvement of non-state players is a positive development, and so is the growth of fringe meetings. these bring together members sharing common concerns, for example acp delegates representing remote and arid areas and meps working on climate change. it is in these informal discussions that meps and acp parliamentarians can often work together best. secondly, i believe there is a desire on all sides to make the jpa more responsive, more capable of reacting to current events. the rapporteur refers to this in paragraph 17. of course, there needs to be a structure to debate, but the formal structure of discussions and reports is very drawn out. we need to find ways of making the jpa more immediately engaged and reactive. that brings me to my third point: the level of participation by members of both houses has sometimes been disappointing. naturally, the first duty of parliamentarians on both sides is to their own legislatures, so, inevitably, there are diary clashes. i am, therefore, really pleased that the european parliament is looking at changing its timetable and earmarking some weeks – the new ‘turquoise weeks’ – for external meetings. i hope this will get rid of conflicts of duty on the european side and greatly improve active attendance by the 78 meps. this is something we should continue to monitor as the changes to the european parliament timetable are implemented.
mr president, the jpa deals with more than africa, but it is africa that dominates so much of our attention. two weeks ago, archbishop desmond tutu was in parliament talking specifically about darfur and more generally about africa. he said thank you for not succumbing to donor fatigue and afro-pessimism and thank you for not allowing governments to turn a blind eye. but he shared our concerns about the zimbabwe regime, which has destroyed a once-vibrant economy, oppressed its people and polluted the relationship between africa and the european union. the southern african development community (sadc) has finally recognised that there is a problem in zimbabwe and has mandated president mbeki of south africa to facilitate talks between the mugabe regime and the zimbabwean opposition. there has already been some progress. the first meeting took place between zanu pf and the mdc last weekend in south africa, but an enormous amount remains to be done. let us remember that just a few days ago, two mdc activists from matobo district were abducted and murdered. just as sadc is beginning to understand that mugabe’s regime is a problem, so the acp is also stirring. in march, the acp-eu bureau called on the zimbabwean government to re-establish respect for human rights and the rule of law in accordance with the cotonou agreement. next week zimbabwe is on the agenda of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. there is an urgent need for both colleges in the acp-eu to speak as one on the appalling aberration that is zimbabwe. after the jpa, the african union summit will be held in ghana. we must do all that we can to encourage the african nations to go to this summit determined to support the mbeki initiation and to do all that is possible to bring about rapid political change for the better in zimbabwe for the sake of all the people of that country and, indeed, all the people of africa.
author. – mr president, it saddens me to have to take the floor once again on this issue. more than 18 months after the adoption of the fourtou report in december 2005 by an overwhelming majority of this house, we are still debating the same issues, and nothing has changed. the council is absent – that is shameful! citizens from many member states, including my own, but also spain, germany, holland and belgium, are having their legally acquired lands taken by local authorities without due process, which i am convinced is in breach of eu law. moreover, they are being forced to pay large sums of money – tens of thousands of euros – to pay for new infrastructure and new developments that they do not want and which are on their land. the situation i am describing sounds unimaginable in the 21st century eu but it is a sad reality for thousands of citizens in spain. people have bought land or property in good faith only to see it taken away by what can only be described as, at best, administrative incompetence or, at worst, criminal negligence and corruption. this issue was brought to the attention of the committee on petitions in 2003. back then, 15 000 citizens wrote to us asking for help. what have we done? well, we have adopted the fourtou report, which brought forward a series of recommendations to the valencian government. the valencian government brought forward minor changes in the luv, which do not address the key problems of land grab. it is worth mentioning that large numbers of projects in valencia were rushed through prior to the entry into force of the new law. this is a clear sign that constructors and developers wanted to continue to exploit the loopholes of the previous law. we have now sent three fact-finding missions. the last came under shameful attacks from the partido popular, which were attacks upon the integrity of this house. it saddens me to say that the president of this house, mr pöttering, remains indifferent to the attacks upon the integrity of this house. the partido popular politicians say that the petitions in valencia have been imagined. the pain is real, the pain is desperate, and that is why people have looked to us. the commission is unhappy. it believes that possible infringements of eu law are under way. therefore, i say this: to do nothing is not an option, we have exhausted what we can do in this house and this will be resolved in the court of justice or before the european court of human rights in strasbourg, and it will be to the shame of the partido popular in spain.
would the commissioner be willing to answer the same question again but in relation to the united kingdom? as you pointed out earlier, the uk has no obligation to join the euro but it has the right to do so, provided it meets the conditions. how close is the uk to actually meeting the conditions?
member of the commission. mr president, apart from the political problems created by the negative responses to referendums - and which are evident in this and other areas - i believe that for the countries you have mentioned, the consequences of a negative referendum would be very different from the consequences it is having for the swedish economy or the consequences of the 'opt-out' for the united kingdom or denmark. in the case of the united kingdom, denmark and sweden, we are talking about highly industrialized economies - we can even define them as being in the post-industrial phase - which do not have to undergo a process of nominal and real convergence, which have carried out many of the structural reforms necessary to get the maximum benefit from membership of a single currency, which have a high level of confidence in the financial markets, in investors and in the rating agencies. and none of these features exists - at present, unfortunately - in poland, or hungary, or the czech republic, which are countries with a very high level of growth, but with a long process of nominal and real convergence still ahead, which requires of them, of their citizens and of their authorities, major reforms and efforts. they need to turn to external savings to finance their investment and growth process and they need to gain the trust of markets and investors. i therefore believe that a loss of reference to the euro as a medium-term strategy for their macroeconomic policies and policies in general would cause them extremely serious inconveniences and difficulties.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under european union law it is the responsibility of the uk authorities to assess the impact of infrastructure projects and to ensure that all the environmental standards applicable in this area are respected before, during and after the implementation of projects. however, the commission is closely monitoring the application in the united kingdom of the relevant provisions of community law. the project for the sustainable development of heathrow carries with it the commitment of the uk government not to build a third runway without prior public consultation and only if strict noise and air quality conditions are observed. a full environmental impact assessment is thus being launched, which will have to comply with the provisions of the 1985 directive applicable to these assessments, as well as the provisions of the 2001 directive on strategic environmental assessment. the 1996 ambient air quality directive and the directives derived from it require that air quality plans be implemented where necessary in order to respect the established limit values. the impact of heathrow airport is covered by the london metropolitan area air quality plan and yet in 2005 air quality levels in that area exceeded the pm10 limit values on numerous occasions. moreover, under the 2002 environmental noise directive, a strategic noise map is required for heathrow before the end of june 2007, including an analysis of possible future situations. one year after that map, an appropriate action plan shall be developed in a process of public participation and consultation. in short, the commission is following with interest the development of the largest airport in the european union and is monitoring the application of the relevant provisions of community law, but the specific provisions on the extension of the airport, such as the construction of a third runway, are the responsibility of the national authorities, in this case the british authorities.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer. this will reassure londoners that the commission is indeed keeping a watchful eye, though, as you say, the main responsibility lies with the uk government. however, an extra runway at heathrow would allow an extra 500 flights a day to pass over london. the uk government’s optimistic claim that air pollution can be kept within eu legal limits appears to rest on hopes of cleaner planes and controls on vehicle traffic around the airport. aviation already accounts for one third of all london’s carbon emissions. therefore, we would ask the commission to keep that close watch on what is going to happen. we are expecting the consultation soon, but it needs the commission to keep a very close eye to make sure that londoners are protected.
while it is easy to lambaste plans for new runways, is the commission aware that last week, as an indication of just how essential a third runway is at heathrow, the chief executive of british airways said that without it there is no prospect of restoring ba flights between my constituency in belfast and the capital city of my country, london? thus, should those who would jump to oppose progress not pause to reflect on the prejudice and the hardship which they would impose on citizens of the uk and elsewhere who need the modern, efficient flight connections that projects such as this would provide?
firstly, i would like to thank the commissioner for his very detailed and, in some ways, encouraging reply. however, he has acknowledged in that reply that the 550 ppm target is unlikely to achieve his objectives. will the commission, in the run-up to bali, put forward the idea of europe taking a lead and going for a 400 ppm target as a way of setting a good example to the rest of the world? i also accept his point that europe acting alone will be insufficient.
i asked the commissioner the question because i was aware that on the horizon there are some very good activities planned, and i wish to thank him for that. i asked the question because i have been talking to doctors, consultants and oncologists in my own city of london, and in the united kingdom we have a disproportionate number of cancer cases for what is a prosperous member state. the question i want to ask you is: when i go back to those oncologists, what will i tell them? will i tell them that you will make every effort to ensure that the council recommendation is implemented and that the commission will take seriously the disproportionate figures we see from member state to member state, and that you will make a comparative example of member states so that we can do something about some of these rates, which are far too high?
one of the great strengths of the european union in the field of health is the ability to spread best practices. apart from examining the outcome of the screening recommendations, will the commission take as an example the country that comes out best in terms of screening, treatment and low mortality rates and analyse not just how they got there, but how this could be applied to other member states? there is no point in just gathering statistics and saying ‘these countries are doing it well’ or ‘these countries are doing it badly’. we also need to know why the best countries are succeeding and how we might transpose that into other healthcare systems across the community.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the coordinators of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for supporting my work as chairwoman in bringing forward the first detailed piece of work the committee has undertaken on transposition and implementation of internal market legislation, in this case to examine the effectiveness of public procurement law. the report is a culmination of months of extensive research and informal consultation with member states, public procurement practitioners and specialists, and staff in the commission. it has been greatly assisted by the internal market committee’s secretarial staff, to whom i also express my thanks. we held a workshop to look at best practice, putting the spotlight on public procurement and demonstrating parliament’s commitment to better regulation while improving businesses’ experience of eu law and demonstrating the benefits for the citizen. why did we decide to look at public procurement legislation? a series of negative press articles from 2003 to 2006 seemed to suggest that the internal market was failing because of a lack of regard for eu procurement rules, in particular the rules on non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. concerns were also expressed that the number of illegal direct awards was rising. the public procurement market, estimated to be around 16% of the eu’s gdp and worth some eur 1.7 trillion, is clearly of enormous economic significance for growth and job creation across the eu. an increasing amount of public procurement is carried out by our local authorities offering potential for more jobs at local level, in particular for smes. our analysis led us to the view that there are, indeed, a number of problems with the correct application of eu public procurement law, including cases of cross-border discrimination. a significant number of commission infringement cases deal with matters of public procurement, and we could have drawn up a report naming and shaming bad practices or naming the member states, five of which have still, in 2007, not implemented the public procurement directives. to have done so would have guaranteed us media headlines. however, we believe that, on balance, the opening of the public procurement market across the eu is contributing positively to the health of the internal market and helping the eu to meet the lisbon goals. therefore, we chose instead to focus in a constructive way on actions that would improve the record of member states in tackling persistent – and, indeed, emerging – transposition and implementation problems. the report therefore recommends that the commission propose an action plan strongly encouraging member states to tackle the problems. we ask for collaborative practices between member states and the commission, including informal information sharing at an early stage. we stress the role of informal dispute settlement, alongside formal remedies. we are asking the commission to publish guidelines on the application of social criteria, once its study in this area is complete, and we want to see more exchange of best practice in public procurement with, for example, systematic training of procurement professionals and coordination of the work of european networks for the exchange of best practice. we are recommending adoption of all optional elements of the new directive, such as e-auctions, and we want to see set up national advisory agencies to assist contracting authorities as well as tenderers. we recognise that the commission needs sufficient human resources in this area to deal with the problems, and we are also calling for better data collection in public procurement, which we know is a very difficult area because of the sheer volume involved and the varying national accounting systems. we want political commitment from the member states, in particular, to accelerate the correct transposition and implementation of this legislation. a current hot issue is in-house service provision and the applicability of the public procurement rules to public-public partnerships. the committee decided there is not currently sufficient ecj case-law following the teckal case to provide legal clarity on what public authorities should do. however, we urge the commission to continue its work in this area to resolve the issues and get legal clarity. i remind colleagues that we recently adopted mrs weiler’s report, which makes very good recommendations on public-public partnerships. finally, there is a clear relationship between this report and the future of the single market. indeed, the commission is expected to report back on future policy in the autumn. i would like to thank all colleagues for their input into this debate and all those who have contributed at our workshop and in many other ways. i look forward to strong support from the commission for what i believe is a positive and a practical report to improve this important sector of the internal market.
mr president, i should like to apologise to the interpreters, because this really only works in english. my 60-second slot today i really must confess precludes my chance of giving you a gettysburg address; and so, to make the best use of such precious little time, i shall list the points that matter and present them as a rhyme. commissioner verheugen says that eu regulations present a half a trillion bill to all the eu nations. this favours larger companies and hurts the smes. it is directives just like this one that will bring them to their knees. not content with these achievements, mrs mccarthy’s final dream was centralised policing of the public procurement theme. national advisory agencies and a data-sharing goal persuade her to keep digging when already in a hole. if socialism’s paradise need rules that we enforce, i will eat my hat, and coat as well, with or without sauce. (applause from the ind/dem group)
mr president, i am afraid that i cannot reply in such a poetic way. all i would say is that, when i say to mr booth that this public procurement regime should represent the biggest possible advantages for small businesses across europe, i am sure we can find a hat maker to provide him with a hat that he will eat in due course! i want to thank mrs mccarthy not just for this report but for setting out a clear course for our committee in leading the scrutiny of these public procurement directives and raising them in political prominence. after all, the whole public procurement regime was really the first fully worked-through piece of internal market legislation dating back to the 1950s and yet, in many cases, i wonder whether enough businesses see this as a real opportunity. the prime suggestion here is that member states really need to get their act together in improving their professionalism in dealing with procurement, opening up opportunities that will not just encourage economic growth across europe but also deliver better quality services to their citizens by reducing costs and improving quality. we know that, where that has happened, clear benefits are being delivered, and those small businesses need to be catered for in this process. my closing point, in thanking mrs mccarthy for accepting one of my own amendments, is to say that public authorities, with the huge amounts they are buying, also have a real responsibility to be encouraging innovation in products and services. within the remit of the existing directives, they can set up pre-procurement arrangements or pre-competitive arrangements to pull through into the marketplace innovative solutions that will deliver real benefits to citizens. that is the next development that we need to get to grips with and i know that is something that mrs mccarthy and the committee – and i speak as the coordinator for my group – will work together on, in order to continue to deliver real benefits for the european economy and all our citizens.
author. – mr president, i am sorry mr booth has gone because i would like to tell him that i am a music lover and perhaps next time he could perform a euro-rap when my report is up! as the commissioner is aware, the defence procurement market accounts for a large share of eu public procurement, estimated at about eur 80 billion out of a combined member state defence budget of eur 170 billion, and that is why we are tabling this question today: defence procurement is still being awarded within mostly fragmented national markets. the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, therefore, takes note of the commission’s interpretative communication on the application of article 296 of the treaty in the field of defence procurement, adopted on 7 december 2006. this helped clarify the existing legal framework. however, we also further note efforts by the commission to propose new legislation, which should substantially contribute to creating a more competitive environment for the european defence industry and its suppliers. therefore, we want to ask the commissioner the following questions. what progress is being made on the draft directive on the procurement of defence equipment not subject to the derogations of article 296? what are the subsequent steps planned by the commission in this area? how does the commission evaluate, from the perspective of a fair and efficient working of the internal market, the situation within the european defence industry, where in different member states a significant number of highly skilled jobs appear to be at risk? what impact does it expect the directive to have on the sector, and what is the commission’s strategy to induce member states to cooperate more closely on defence procurement issues, to improve transparency and gradually open up their national defence procurement markets in order to establish a well-performing and competitive environment for this sensitive sector? we should also like to know what conclusions can be drawn from the code of conduct that was established in 2006, and how the commission understands the future relationship between a potential directive and the code of conduct.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by welcoming the commissioner’s clear commitment to producing the new directive as soon as possible and by thanking him for outlining a number of important measures on which he and his departments are already working. clearly, this is a particularly sensitive area because of both its strategic nature and some of the industrial policy issues surrounding the whole defence sector. i should like to raise two particular points, to which the commissioner could perhaps respond in his winding-up statement. firstly, it is clear that in many areas of defence equipment procurement there are very complex contractual arrangements, in many cases also involving a significant amount of product development. in other words, the specification of the equipment may involve new technology evolutions. these arrangements will be very different in many cases from conventional buying contracts, although, as i indicated in my response to mrs mccarthy’s report, there is increasing interest in more transparent conditions for these types of contracts. i wonder whether the commissioner could indicate or confirm that he will be taking these specific strategic needs into account. the second point, which is a difficult one, is that in many cases defence procurement agreements also have some form of offset agreement attached to them. for instance, the procuring countries may be looking for some form of local investment, involving local firms in assembling the equipment. or, in some cases, there is a completely different sort of financial offset in terms of an agreement to buy products from a company in another market. these arrangements seem to raise difficult issues in the context of both competition and procurement law, and i should be grateful if the commissioner could confirm that he will be looking at these in the review of the directive he has promised.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, as this house is well aware, this proposed regulation on the banning of exports and storage of metallic mercury is in line with the commitments contained in the mercury strategy which we passed in march 2006. the ppe-de group supports the broad aims of the regulation. mercury must be disposed of and stored safely in order to protect human health and the environment. mercury cell technology is being gradually replaced by the environmentally superior and energy efficient membrane cell technology and this conversion is releasing surplus mercury across the european union. the aim of this regulation is to prevent this decommissioned mercury from entering the world market. in my view the commission’s proposal is broadly acceptable and the most workable approach. with regard to the date for the entry into force of the export ban, amendments have been tabled to bring that date forward. we do not support those amendments. the timing of the ban was debated at length prior to the environmental council in june 2005, and the 2011 date was agreed in the council conclusions as contained in the commission’s proposal. in my view, nothing has changed since the council took that decision and i would not wish to have those very difficult decisions reopened. this could only delay the introduction of the ban, especially if it encouraged the re-examination of whether an export ban is in fact the best way to achieve the eu’s aims. the date that has been chosen is the date that appears to gain the most support from a majority of member states and of course, equally importantly, from the many other stakeholders involved. that date has been set by the commission with the agreement of the spanish authorities and minas de almadén in order to leave enough time to reorganise and restructure that company, and i think it deserves all of our support. i am not in favour of the proposals to introduce a ban on the import of mercury and mercury compounds. given the quantities of mercury rising from the decommissioned chlor-alkali plants within the community, there would appear to be absolutely no commercial incentive for imports and thus no necessity for including an import ban at this stage. the market is quite capable of regulating itself. similarly, we are also not in favour of extending the scope of the export ban. we accept the commission’s view that metallic mercury is by far the most relevant substance in terms of quantity, as compared to mercury compounds and products containing mercury, and that extending the export ban would be very premature at this stage. furthermore, companies would simply relocate and continue producing. is it really up to us to regulate what other countries in the world get up to? i personally think not. both extensions to the commission’s proposal require deeper analysis of better regulation principles and the cost and impact of existing business.
in writing. – it is clear that mercury is a substance that needs to be dealt with in a cautious and secure manner. this report deals with the important broad issue of handling mercury in import, export and the storage of the substance, while giving a timeline for export and import bans. i support the commission's proposals for regulation on this issue and believe, broadly-speaking, that it is a good thing. i would like to echo the commission's comment that this report follows the mercury strategy which was passed in march of last year, and want to encourage the commission in its ongoing work on the mercury strategy. this is only one report of many that will deal with other issues such as the use of small amounts of mercury in the dental industry. i am sure work on other strategic issues is ongoing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work. getting us to this vote has not been easy, as we have heard, because we have been forced to respond to changing and sometimes intransigent positions from the council. my group will support a number of the committee amendments, notably those that change the scope from workers to persons, which will certainly help cover certain particular cases. we expect this directive to cover all who have contributed to these second-pillar schemes through their work, and to be non-discriminatory in application. we shall not, therefore, be supporting amendment 34 or the amendments from one other political group. we have heard that mobility is seen as increasingly important. indeed, it is a fact of life. flexicurity is a buzzword in our discussions, and mobile workers need a background of security, of which pension provision is a part. they need to be able to spread their pension risk, but individual pensions have their problems, as our debate on equitable life this week has shown. it should be a warning to all member states tending to rely only on state and private pensions, without a work-based pillar. as we know, there is no requirement to introduce such schemes in this proposal, so those member states should not put barriers in the way of others. people should be able to benefit from the accrual of pension payments and not see their contributions left in various schemes like drying slices of salami, hence amendment 48 to reintroduce portability, the core of this proposal. we know that there is no majority support, but we want to put down a marker to let the council know that it really has to get to grips with this issue, because it is an increasing necessity. its current approach seems, to many of us, to be a delaying tactic and, at times, a betrayal of their own calls for greater mobility. we need rules to protect the dormant rights of scheme members, so we cannot support amendment 38, which we see as a wrecking amendment not in the interests of citizens. we will support the committee position on this point. however, we have problems with the age-related provisions in article 4 and the lengthy vesting periods in the committee amendments. we find them discriminatory and, in spite of what the commission has told us, we believe that increased mobility for the over-25s will be a continuation of what is happening now. amendment 47 is therefore based on the legal age at which member states allow people to work full time, which is 15 in at least one case. we cannot support going beyond the commission proposal. we also want to see early implementation, hence amendment 49. however, the council has to take on its responsibility and deliver a proposal which reflects its rhetoric and improves the situation of those changing employment within the european union.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, when four pensions experts attended a meeting of the committee on employment and social affairs in may last year, they were not happy with this directive. they said that it did not sufficiently respect subsidiarity and was too much too soon. the employment committee itself is at odds over it. never before have i seen one member standing over another haranguing and shouting at them. that is because this matter is very complex, as a result of the different attitudes the member states have towards pensions. there are different systems, hence the complexity. i am all in favour of people moving about and taking their pensions with them, building on them as they go, but let the pensions firms sort it out. that is what they are there for. they have got the expertise – let them have the headache. after all, we even have a services directive now, which is supposed to help in this area. i therefore ask members to support my own rejection amendment. you will be in good company: it has already been rejected in the council, so the dossier is destined to gather dust on a top shelf somewhere.
madam president, in an age when few jobs are for life, when state pension schemes are generally inadequate, when worker mobility is uninhibited, and when europe has a notably ageing population, deficiencies in pension arrangements are of increasing significance for many of our constituents. thus what can be done to ensure adequate and flexible pension regimes should be done. supplementary pensions for many are an essential part of their financial planning, thus the rules governing them should not be stifling, nor should they be restrictive. nor should they afford the opportunity for government grab by stealth taxes, something with which we are familiar in the united kingdom. my primary plea, however, is that in promoting the mobility of pensions we do not merely impose another layer of eu regulation. remember, these are voluntary arrangements. member states must retain control of what happens in their own countries where there are different regimes and different practices.
in writing. – i am interested to see that more countries, the latest now being cyprus and malta, are choosing the join the euro, which makes britain’s position look increasingly conspicuous. bearing in mind that the euro is rapidly establishing itself as the world’s strongest currency and has now displaced the us dollar as the main denomination for world trade, accounting for 45% of the global market compared to 37% for the dollar, it is becoming increasingly clear that for the uk, staying out means missing out.
in writing. british conservatives have always opposed the entry of the uk into the euro zone. nevertheless, we have never opposed the right of other sovereign nations to form a common monetary system. our abstention reflects our belief that it is for the members of the euro zone to decide how best to conduct monetary policy in the interests of a stable currency.
in writing. the british conservative delegation supports the committee on budgets resolution calling on the commission to resubmit its proposals for financing the galileo project. however, we have grave reservations about proposals to fund it through the existing european budget.
in writing. the clear intention of the resolution is for galileo to be financed with a blank cheque from public funds to further eu political ambitions. collaborative technological projects have a dubious track record. they do not require eu involvement and should only be undertaken for clear economic, strategic and industrial motives – not to further eu ambitions to be a global actor. british conservatives want opportunities for british industry and british r&d, but this resolution does not guarantee that. it supports the commission's proposal to use public funds – through the eu budget – for the entire galileo project. this course of action will be another drain on taxpayers in the united kingdom and other eu member states, and one in which they have had absolutely no say. whereas, in the past, there was reluctance by the eu to admit military applications, this coyness has now been dropped. in the commission's communication on european space policy (26 april 2007) the aim of meeting 'europe's security and defence needs as regards space' is one of the key objectives. as long-standing opponents of esdp, the british conservatives oppose proposals that extend the commission's hand into the defence arena.
in writing. the rapporteur’s approach to this highly important subject is to be commended. there is urgent need for efforts to reach the mdgs to be redoubled. this means wholesale debt relief and scaled-up, better coordinated and better targeted aid.
in writing. the ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of the acp-eu jpa and therefore cannot support this amendment. however, we agree with the spirit of the text and sincerely hope that the international community as a whole will ensure that the international travel bans on key figures in the zimbabwean regime are fully respected.
in writing. the ukip does not recognise the legitimacy of the acp-eu jpa and therefore cannot support this amendment. however, we agree with the spirit of the text and sincerely hope that the international community as a whole will ensure that the international travel bans on key figures in the zimbabwean regime are fully respected.
in writing. the work of the acp-eu jpa is vital when we consider the large number of least developed countries within that grouping and the volume of development assistance the eu targets at the acp countries. i support many of the demands made in the report, such as those calling for national parliaments and civil society to become more involved in the process of national aid programming in the acp.
mr president, last year i spent two weeks in the democratic republic of congo on behalf of this parliament. four million people died in their civil war and, of course, an international arms embargo on that country failed to prevent arms from all over the world – including from germany and france, for which there is clear evidence – getting into that country and contributing to the strife that took place. there cannot be a more graphic example of why the international community needs to do more to enforce its will and its values in this area. as we say in our resolution, we want to see a comprehensive, rigorous and fully implemented arms trade treaty. the european union can play a pivotal role in the international community to make sure that the text achieves just that. i am very proud that the european parliament text put before us today refers to the arms trade causing ‘unacceptable human suffering and exacerbating conflict, instability and terrorism’. i thank mr gloser, the german presidency and the council for taking a similarly tough line in their resolution and speaking of ‘an undesirable and irresponsible proliferation of conventional arms’. let us carry those words through so that we really can influence what is happening in the united nations. the next stage must be to engage civil society. i think we are in our present position as a result of those ngo campaigns of the mid-1990s that were finally successful in working with us to get the eu code of conduct. i am very proud that experts at the lauterpacht centre at cambridge university in my own constituency drew up the first draft of this treaty to be put forward to the international community. i appeal to parliamentarians to sign the declaration in favour of the treaty on the controlarms.org website. our work with civil society to engage the people of this world for a strong treaty is essential. finally, i am very proud that my own country, the uk, together with finland, proposed this in the united nations and that every single eu member state has submitted its willing support to the un. we should be proud of europe too.
this debate is now adjourned until 9 p.m.
the next item is question time (b6-0125/2007). the following questions are addressed to the council. question no 1 by manolis mavrommatis (h-0354/07) subject: eu taxation policy the taxation policy pursued by the member states should be consistent with the community's objectives in terms of job creation, eu competitiveness, the single market and free movement of capital. the 27 member states are solely responsible for the planning and implementation of direct taxation policy, while the community rules governing individual areas of taxation policy in the union require the unanimity of the 27 for any decision-making. value added tax (vat) on products has become quite a complicated matter in recent years. in particular, vat in the member states ranges from 3% in luxembourg to 25% in denmark. will the council say whether the eu is moving closer to adopting a common system for value added tax, what stage has been reached in discussions to date and what the member states' intentions are concerning the adoption of a common rate of vat?
question no 2 by claude moraes (h-0356/07) subject: eu cross-border cooperation to protect children from child abuse - mutual recognition of disqualifications from working with children there is an urgent need for effective systems within the eu to ensure that unsuitable people are not able to gain employment which brings them into contact with children. on 1 june 2006 the european parliament adopted its report on the 2004 'initiative of the kingdom of belgium with a view to the adoption by the council of a framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the european union of prohibitions arising from convictions for sexual offences committed against children' (14207/2004 - c6-0244/2004 - 2004/0818(cns)). what progress is being made towards adoption by the council of the proposed framework decision, which is crucial for ensuring the protection of children in europe? in the event of a lack of progress towards adoption, how does the council intend to ensure that all the objectives this initiative aims to achieve will be otherwise met? (it aims to ensure that member states recognise and enforce bans on working with children imposed on individuals by other member states.)
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for that answer, but i should also like to ask him to acknowledge in the german presidency the real concern across the european union about recent incidents of possible child abduction for the purposes of exploitation. i would ask him to acknowledge that this is now a major issue in the european union, for his country, for mine and for others, and to ensure that we come to a conclusion, before the end of the german presidency, on the exchange of criminal records on people who work with children and will be a danger to them.
is it not a pretty dire situation that, three years on from the proposal and when everybody agrees that making cross-border information available on sex offenders is one of the most urgent priorities and one very much supported by the public, we simply have no agreement? and the council says it will look at this soon! is it not also pretty shocking that the uk government is seeking an opt-out from this law enforcement area of european cooperation so that, even if it were agreed, our children would not even be protected by measures to track sex offenders?
question no 3 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0358/07) subject: discrimination against disabled people or children with learning difficulties although 2007 is the year of equal opportunities for all, people with disabilities or special needs continue to encounter discrimination owing to their particular circumstances. typical examples are: (a) disabled people who are unable to obtain insurance cover and, in the event of an accident, have to rely on their families and (b) children with learning difficulties (e.g. stammering, dyslexia) who encounter a lack of standard practice in national school legislation. moreover, whereas they may be given favourable treatment in one particular country - oral examination in the case of dyslexic individuals, for example - they do not enjoy the same opportunities in other member states, even in the european schools. will the council intervene to ensure that disabled people are able to obtain private insurance and that the needs of children with learning difficulties are met, in particular in the european schools?
question no 4 by manuel medina ortega (h-0361/07) subject: intergovernmental cooperation and passarelle clauses on immigration issues given the growing importance of immigration issues in eu policies, and the implementation of intergovernmental cooperation mechanisms such as frontex or rapid intervention teams, what plans is the council considering with a view to strengthening the community pillar in this area, particularly by means of the so-called 'passarelle clauses' provided for in the eu treaties?
question no 5 by sarah ludford (h-0364/07) subject: counter-terrorism and human rights following the eu-us summit in april 2007, what strategy is the german presidency proposing for ensuring that transatlantic cooperation to combat terrorism and crime is pursued through methods which respect human rights and civil liberties? when and how does the presidency propose to involve the european parliament in the transatlantic dialogue on security, including the legal framework for fighting terrorism? what responses has the presidency sought and received from member states in response to the european parliament report on extraordinary rendition adopted on 14 february 2007? can the presidency give an update on filling the post of counter-terrorism coordinator, and is it conducting a review on the need for that post to carry more weight in the council structure, not least in ensuring respect for article 6 teu?
it would have been preferable to have a full debate on the cia renditions and european complicity this part-session, as the liberals wanted, but unfortunately the largest groups on the right and left strangely refused to support that idea. we could then have pressed the council collectively to respond at last to parliament’s and dick marty’s reports. how is the council ensuring human rights compliance, as stated in the summit conclusions, when we know that us efforts are directed at persuading eu member states to dilute legal protections? is the council going to let meps into those ongoing secret discussions given that we are supposed to have a high-level trialogue on terrorism? we have never been consulted on the action plan, and i think it is about time the council improved its partnership with parliament on these matters.
question no 6 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0369/07) subject: deployment of us missile defence system in eu member states the usa's plan to set up a missile defence system in member states of the european union - poland and the czech republic - on the pretext of guarding against missile attacks from iran and north korea has given rise to public concern in europe, such plans being perceived as making europe a target as well as giving rise to new divisions. according to an announcement by the russian security council, these plans have already entailed a revision of russian defence strategy since they are considered to be a threat to the russian federation. what are the council's views on the deployment of such systems in member states of the european union? what measures will it take to ensure that these plans, which are reviving cold war conditions in europe, are revoked?
question no 7 by nils lundgren (h-0374/07) subject: gas pipeline in the baltic sea there are varying reports as to whether the council has approved the construction of a german-russian gas pipeline running under the baltic sea. it is important - particularly from a democratic perspective - that the public receives an answer on this matter. i have discussed the matter previously with both the commission and the council without receiving specific and satisfactory information. has the council formally approved the construction of a german-russian gas pipeline running under the baltic sea? the council's approval is presumably required to enable the project to go ahead? should a dispute arise over environmental impact assessment in swedish waters, is it the european court of justice or the swedish environmental court which passes final judgment in the case?
question no 8 by robert evans (h-0375/07) subject: overseas territories does the council ever discuss the anomaly whereby some overseas territories, literally on the other side of the world, are deemed part of the eu when other places within the eu's borders are considered 'outside' the eu? in view of the implication of these anomalies, is the time not right to modernise or regularise this situation?
my point really was that what we decide in this chamber – as you said in response to the last question, when you referred to eu laws that have to be respected – applies in places like martinique, or guadeloupe, or french guiana on the coast of south america, thousands of kilometres away, far removed from this place, but it does not apply in places like the channel islands, which are between france and britain, or the isle of man, liechtenstein, andorra – i could go on. there are all these peculiar little tax havens and exemptions that we seem to allow and where eu law does not apply. does the council not consider this position to be such an anomaly that we ought to look at it again and consider a more modern way forward, rather than trying to legislate thousands of kilometres away, and not on our own doorstep?
question no 9 by philip bushill-matthews (h-0378/07) subject: possible age discrimination towards pilots flying over france does france's refusal to allow pilots over the age of 60 to fly over its territory constitute a breach of the eu equal treatment in employment directive (2000/78/ec oj l 303, 2.12.2000, p. 16. of 27 november 2000), even when these pilots act as co-pilots in accordance with the international civil aviation organisation's guidelines?
well, that was a very short answer, but not very sweet. i am aware that the commission has certain responsibilities, but are you saying that the council has no interest whatsoever and does not care about age discrimination? because that is the clear message you are giving.
question no 10 by bernd posselt (h-0380/07) subject: unemployment in kosovo how does the council presidency assess the current situation in kosovo, where the delay in recognising the territory's independence has contributed in recent months to an extremely high level of unemployment, and what steps will the eu be taking this year in kosovo at an economic and political level?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question no 11 by esko seppänen (h-0382/07) subject: athena system while the eu treaties prohibit the use of eu budget appropriations to fund military operations, the member states have agreed on a special athena system. how much funding from the member states has been used to fund the various operations through this system? question no 12 by tobias pflüger (h-0385/07) subject: military budget for athena financing mechanism according to information from the german federal government in the summer of 2006, the eu is acquiring certain communications facilities from nato (with costs shared between the two organisations) for the purpose of implementing operation althea, is negotiating the acquisition of the cartographic material for bosnia and herzegovina originally produced for nato or is renting a precisely defined infrastructure (container) at the shared headquarters camp butmir, albeit already in the form of a regular contractual agreement that goes beyond berlin plus. does the council consider that adequate democratic budgetary control is guaranteed for the athena military budget after the most recent council decision on the athena financing mechanism and why has it not so far been possible to identify the payments to nato initiated from the athena budget, to publish details of the precise utilisation of appropriations from the athena budget and to inform the european parliament accordingly?
question no 13 by inese vaidere (h-0387/07) subject: eu - georgia negotiations on concluding the visa facilitation and readmission agreements georgia is an important eu partner under the european neighbourhood policy. its current government has demonstrated clear european aspirations and strong commitments to reforms directed to european values, as well as a good capacity in implementing them. a lack of desire from the eu side for talks with georgia on visa facilitation and readmission agreements is being observed. this contrasts distinctly with the successful conclusion of the eu visa facilitation and readmission agreements with russia which will be put into effect from 1 june this year, as well as the eu negotiations with ukraine completed in 2006, and negotiations with moldova launched early this year. simplification of the existing visa regime with georgia has never been placed on the eu's agenda and, surprisingly, it seems that this country is being punished for its aspirations towards european values and reforms. what is the council doing to accelerate the process of negotiations and conclusion of the visa facilitation and readmission agreements with georgia, and what are the council's plans regarding these negotiations?
question no 14 by leopold józef rutowicz (h-0390/07) subject: adoption of 'roaming' directive what is the council doing to speed up the adoption of the 'roaming' directive, which is of vital importance to european citizens?
question no 15 by danute budreikaite (h-0392/07) subject: implementation of the eu's neighbourhood policy the european union’s neighbourhood policy covers 16 neighbouring countries, the mediterranean countries of egypt, algeria, israel, jordan, lebanon, libya, morocco, the palestinian authority, syria and tunisia and the newly independent states of ukraine, moldova, belarus, armenia, azerbaijan and georgia. an action plan has been drawn up for the implementation of the neighbourhood policy in respect of each of the neighbouring countries. 16% of the external relations budget is to be earmarked for the neighbourhood policy. can the presidency state with which neighbouring countries agreements have been signed pursuant to the neighbourhood policy instrument? what amounts have been set aside, for what period, for the countries in question?
the president of the council. we had a debate this afternoon on meda and on the european neighbourhood policy, but it was more about the south. i would like to emphasise that the member states which joined the european union on 1 may 2004 were moved to say: we now have an external border of the european union. we have neighbours too and we are interested in the political, economic and social stability of those countries. that is why we have also placed a great deal of emphasis on the design and further development of the european neighbourhood policy, particularly with the important aspect that for each neighbouring country which has corresponding relations with the european union, a programme can be drawn up according to individual progress, so that there are tailor-made programmes for ukraine or moldova, for example. i can only say, madam president, that the countries you have mentioned are involved in the preparation of these action plans and have a great interest in them. the commission's proposals for the future of the community's neighbourhood policy are based on the principle of subsidiarity. the european council will endorse this new approach to neighbourhood policy in its conclusions tomorrow and on friday, and it is hoped that subsequent council presidencies will have the opportunity to continue to work on the basis of this programme.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there have also been intensive talks with the countries of the south caucasus. the progress reports have been made and the european union's preparatory work has led to the adoption of action plans last year. this means that it is not just assumed that the audit has shown that these are elections to conclude a corresponding action plan together with azerbaijan.
question no 16 by james nicholson (h-0394/07) subject: brazilian beef in order to ensure that european consumers can have total confidence in their beef supply, will the council not consider imposing an immediate ban on the export of beef from brazil to the european union rather than waiting until the end of this year?
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. under community law, the commission is responsible for the administration of the safeguard clause. the council therefore has no direct influence on the decision taken by the commission in relation to brazilian beef.
thank you, mr president-in-office, but i am a bit frustrated by that reply. i also put a question last night to the commission, which was not very helpful either. i would like to put to the president-in-office that, when the irish farmers’ journal and a representative from the irish farmers’ association visited brazil, they found clear evidence that rules were not being followed in brazil. traceability is non-existent. there are no controls at regional borders. animal movement in brazil from foot-and-mouth areas is taking place every day. there is evidence that substances banned in the european union are being used in brazil. is it not beyond time that we in europe stopped paying lip service to this type of problem – when our consumers could have the possibility of being affected by this – and have a ban on brazilian beef, which everybody in the european union wants for the betterment of the producers and the consumers?
the president of the council. i hate to say that the council has no jurisdiction. but you yourself said that you took the opportunity to raise this issue with the commission. the council is aware of this, of course, but it is now up to the commission to investigate the information. the commission then has the responsibility to make proposals and take safeguard measures. this is really not the competence of the european council.
president-in- office, you say this is a matter for the commission, but the health of european citizens must be a matter in which the council has more than a passing interest. the united states of america has imposed a total ban on all fresh beef imports from brazil because it says traceability is non-existent, illegal growth hormones are in widespread use and, generally, controls are alarmingly weak. is the health of eu citizens less important than the health of american citizens and, if not, then why have we not already banned brazilian beef?
i should like to take this opportunity, president-in-office, to thank you very much for your cooperation and courtesy during your country's presidency at our question times. questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.05 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her commitment on this ongoing dossier, which should have been on the statute books before now. as others have said, we also think that action is important. last year, we saw a rise in anti-semitic and anti-muslim hate crimes in many parts of the european union, or at least those parts which record such crimes effectively. as others have said, it is the european year of equal opportunities for all and many of our citizens, residents and visitors still face discrimination and hate crimes simply because of the colour of their skin, their beliefs or because they have committed the perceived crime of being foreign. the director of human rights first stated that ‘victimising one member of a particular group threatens all members of that group and causes immeasurable harm to society at large’. my group sees this framework decision as a complement to existing legislation, but we also want to see existing legislation fully implemented. we support the call to be reconsulted on this dossier, and we have some concerns, for example that provisions for mutual assistance between member states have been removed, which may make it more difficult to combat cross-border racism. we know that there is significant international organisation, for example, among groups based on despicable concepts of racial supremacy. we have co-signed the constructive amendments to this report. other amendments represent to us part of the problem, but we look to the council for constructive and forceful action in conjunction with parliament.
mr president, whether it is the increase of islamophobia or the sharp rise in anti-semitic attacks, intolerance in europe is on the rise. it is long overdue and more important than ever for the eu to remain firm by adopting legislation to counteract these worrying phenomena. this text does not, in itself, constitute the concrete action needed to address the persistent problems of racism and xenophobia in europe today. it could be stronger by using the international convention on the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination as a benchmark. secondly, this legislation must reaffirm europe’s commitment to our core values of respect for diversity and intolerance of discrimination, a commitment that must amount to so much more than the sum of the political compromises of the council’s text. in the current political climate, where support for right-wing extremism across europe has brought racism into the mainstream, moderates must use this legislation and the dialogue that will surround its implementation to take back ownership of the diversity debate. we must rebuild the bonds of trust between divided communities and we must ensure that feelings of alienation are replaced with a much-needed sense of security.
in writing. – i have become increasingly concerned by the rise of racism and xenophobia across the eu, both in new member states and established member states. in a union which has the free movement of people as a central pillar, this is doubtless an issue which requires community action. indeed, initiatives like the european year of equal opportunities, which we are currently in, are key to spreading best practise in eradicating discrimination. it is important that these efforts are redoubled in order to counter the rise in islamophobia, anti-semitism and discrimination against other minority groups, especially those from new member states. we, as a house, and all of the european union institutions and member states must do our utmost to rid europe of the scourge of racism and xenophobia, and make clear that it will not be tolerated.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should especially like to thank the rapporteur, mr pirker, for the report, which contains a series of very useful recommendations. many of these recommendations address the level of ambition that a truly comprehensive common european asylum system should have. many of the concerns expressed by the european parliament in this report are addressed in our green paper on the future of asylum policy, which i proposed on 6 june and which the commission has adopted, and on which i intend to launch a broad european debate. the ultimate objective pursued at european level is thus to establish a level playing field. asylum seekers should have access to protection under equivalent conditions in all member states – that is the first precondition. the goal pursued in the first stage was to harmonise member states’ legal frameworks on the basis of common minimum standards, but the goal in the second stage should be to achieve both a higher standard and greater equality of protection across the eu, as well as greater solidarity between member states. it will be necessary to identify existing gaps and deficits and to pursue further legislative harmonisation while guaranteeing high standards. for example, models need to be explored for the design of a single procedure for assessing applications for refugee status and for subsidiary protection. it is also necessary to reflect on the need for fuller harmonisation and clarification of the european rules regarding the reception conditions granted to asylum seekers. reflection is also needed on whether the criteria for allocating responsibility currently applicable under the dublin system should be complemented in order take other factors into account, such as more equitable distribution between member states on the basis of their capacity to process asylum applications and to offer long-term prospects to recognised refugees. this is a very important point, raised by a number of member states, particularly by our maltese friends, who stressed the importance of integrating the current dublin regulation. i am studying this point. based on the results of this wide debate and after a public hearing to be held on 18 october with the full involvement of parliament, i will issue a policy plan at the beginning of 2008. the policy plan will set out further measures to construct the comprehensive asylum system along with a timeframe for adoption. i am confident that with the due institutional framework which will fully involve the european parliament in the legislative process – i refer to the codecision procedure – we will be able to match this high level of ambition. on the specific issues addressed in mr pirker’s report concerning practical cooperation, there is a need to enhance converge of practice between member states. training is certainly one of the areas where practical cooperation is taking place. at the moment, the development of a common curriculum is under way. we will establish a first pilot european-wide portal on the exchange of country of origin information by the end of this year, in a few months’ time. for the time being, this will only connect some of the existing databases and will be accessible to selected national authorities, but my services also intend to carry out a feasibility study on how to provide a better structural support to practical cooperation activities; the idea is to have a european support office. it should be remembered that the european refugee fund can provide, through community actions, financial support to member states to implement projects, in cooperation with the united nations, to improve the quality of their asylum systems. in the new world programme for 2007, specific mention is made of this point. the commission has also proposed to amend the european refugee fund, precisely to provide rapid financial support to those member states that face particular pressure because of sudden arrivals of migrants at their borders, some of whom are in need of international protection. in addition, the new budget line ‘preparatory action: migration management – solidarity in action’, which is the name of the project, will be used to assist member states faced with particular difficulties. we will fund it with a supplementary amount of money of about eur 7 million. finally, of course, as the rapporteur has just said, one of our main political objectives is to make a clear distinction between economic migrants on the one hand and true refugees on the other. thus, there will be credible european policies for the return of third-country nationals who are staying illegally, in full respect of their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to welcome this report because over recent months we have clearly seen a fall in the overall number of asylum-seekers coming to the european union from the key asylum-producing countries. but that number is of course now increasing, partly as a result of iraq, and the number of people coming to the european union because of extreme poverty – the people that we see coming to malta, lampedusa and so on – is a huge issue for this house and for the european union. because of this, any report which moves towards a better procedure and a better common policy on asylum is welcome. the compromises which we have had in this report are very welcome and the cooperation from the rapporteur, mr pirker, is very welcome also. what are we trying to achieve in this report? in referring directly to what mr pirker has listed, and to mr frattini’s speech, we believe that the single procedure is extremely important. decision-making with one operation for the assessment of applications granting refugee status and granting access to subsidiary protection is extremely important. this kind of efficiency in asylum decision-making is vital. we also believe that the quality of asylum decision-making is extremely poor across the european union. to increase the quality of asylum decisions – and i speak from my own experience as a lawyer having dealt with asylum applications – is vital. we know that, in creating this quality of asylum decision-making, we need open systems with information that can be genuinely assessed: sophisticated information, information which can be cross-referenced. what we probably do not want to see are databases which are, perhaps, for officials only, but ones that can be examined by outside experts. many member states currently have this quality of decision-making, and it is extremely important. in terms of the role of the commission, we also want to see the door kept open to a european agency, because we want to see the commission’s role being full and resourced. we cannot have it both ways; we cannot have a role for the commission in the issue of asylum for the european union and, on the other hand, not pay for it and resource it. finally, there will be differences between our parties on the common safe list, but the compromises we have sought to create, i think, are worthy of support in this house. on dublin ii, we know that there are imperfections in burden sharing, one of the most vital issues in this report, and on the issue of asylum in the european union. we need to strive towards making dublin ii and burden sharing a reality. if this report can move us towards a better common asylum system, then it is worthy of support in this house, and we in the socialist group will be supporting this report fully.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i am not quite sure how we got from the subject of the need for high standards of protection to al-qa’ida; i will try to concentrate on the report rather than what is not in it. my group would also like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report, even though, on some compromises, i think all of us could feel the eggshells cracking as we moved towards agreement. as has already been said, the report covers a number of important points: the high standards we expect, the primacy of protection, the issue of raising the quality of decision-making, the availability of sound country information to all those involved in the process, effective staff training, the use of the quality initiative (recently seen in the uk, which certainly needed some help) and the involvement of the unhcr. all these points are necessary, because the people making decisions are deciding on what are matters of life and death for many of the people they see. we welcome the recognition of the need for a single procedure in all member states and find it very interesting that we are talking about reviewing the role of the court of justice this week. this might be a good time to pass that point on to the council. we are also looking forward to the debate on dublin ii, although our group will support amendment 17 on that. we agree that the commission lacks sufficient resources to monitor effectively the implementation and quality of the common asylum policy. we hope that our political groups will take up that message when looking at the budget and decisions in that area. we know that there is disagreement on the support office, but, like the socialists, we would welcome the opportunity to hear the commission to spell out its intentions in that regard in order to see whether we want to move ahead with that proposal. we have tabled no amendments to this report, but we shall support the constructive amendments relating to the issue of safe third countries. however, there is no way that we can support some of the amendments.
mr president, as coordinator for my group, i want to join my colleagues in thanking mr fruteau for an extremely thorough and complex piece of work. when we started this, we did not expect that so much detailed work would be needed in the council, and he has led that process very effectively, which i am sure will stand him in good stead when he goes to the french parliament. i have just a few observations about the importance of this directive, building on what a number of colleagues, including my fellow coordinator, mrs gebhardt, have said about the importance of the commission carefully monitoring the transposition and implementation of this directive. it is, i think, unnecessarily complex, but that is what the member states wanted. nevertheless, we have to ensure that companies are able to exercise their rights under the directive in a simple way, and those who consider that practices have been wrong are able to avail themselves of the declaration of ineffectiveness of the contract. as the directive points out, this is by far the most effective remedy, and that is what will sustain competition in public procurement. as they do characteristically, the member states have also carved out for themselves the possibility, under certainly carefully defined circumstances, not to apply the suspension procedures. however, it is extremely important that the member states use this right very sparingly and, therefore, i ask the commission to ensure that it is properly monitored. the other point on which i particularly want to thank mr fruteau for his cooperation concerns framework contracts, which constitute a new element brought in by the reform of the directives undertaken by this committee in 2003. these framework contracts do not need the full weight of some of these suspensive procedures in the award of contracts, as a result of a framework, to smaller businesses which are effectively pre-approved to be able to benefit from these contracts. we have reached the right balance here and i thank the rapporteur very much for that. overall, this is a worthwhile reform, but it will need continual vigilance by the commission, with support from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, to ensure that it is really effective.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it gives me great pleasure to welcome this report and to thank my colleague, mrs roithová, for her outstanding work, and the shadow rapporteurs, who are here as well. it has been a very good team effort. i also want to thank mrs kuneva for her very positive response. this report shows the value that a parliamentary committee can bring to a complex issue, particularly one that cuts across so many policy areas. the special message i want to put to the commissioner is that i hope she will take this forward and become the champion of consumers in the e-world and in e-commerce, because, as she said, it is not just her services that have a share in this – it is also those of mrs reding and of mr mccreevy, and, indeed, of mr frattini and of mr verheugen, in his role as champion of enterprise, in particular small enterprise. as far as mr frattini is concerned, i want to emphasise again the concern that many of us feel about the proposed reform of the rome i regulation in particular, which is in serious danger of undermining the provisions for small businesses to be active in the world of e-commerce. there are also important data protection provisions that consumers feel concerned about in terms of giving up their data and going online, which also come under his area. therefore, i think it needs that coordinated approach. i also want to pick up on what mr hammerstein-mintz said, that small enterprises are the ones we need to look at in particular. large enterprises can build complex websites in different languages, based in different countries, but we want to allow small enterprises with an innovative and exciting product and service based in one eu country to be able to access that eu market freely and simply, to take real advantage of the powers that e-commerce offers them. we have to be very careful that we design the regime in such a way as to ensure that we do not discourage them from doing that, because we want not only consumers to go online but also businesses to put their products online, and to make the two work together, because that is what we have the opportunity to do in our dynamic e-commerce market as it moves forward from here.
in writing. conservatives are completely opposed to a common asylum system for the european union. it is the sovereign right of a member state, especially when outside the schengen accords, to determine its own asylum and immigration policies. for this reason the conservatives have voted against this report.
the next item is the debate on four motions for resolutions on cuba. see minutes.
colleagues, i would remind you all that the subject matter of this debate is cuba, and if anybody else tries to discuss something else, i will be very strict.
madam president, castro’s cuba is the last polity in the western hemisphere in which there is no pretence of democracy: opposition movements are banned; dissidents are imprisoned; citizens are denied the right to travel abroad. there are few sights so degrading as that of western leftists arguing that all this is somehow justified because cuba is good at producing doctors and ballerinas. two factors have maintained the castroist dynasty in power: first, the misconceived american blockade, which has allowed him to sustain the siege mentality necessary to dictatorship, and second, the indulgence of those in europe – and here i must especially mention the zapatero government, which indulges the cuban communists by according full diplomatic courtesies. the way to bring freedom to cuba would be through economic engagement but political isolation. instead, we are doing the opposite with calamitous consequences for that unhappy country. ‘sola mors tyrannicida est’ wrote my countryman, thomas more – death is the only way to get rid of tyrants. that it should have proved so in the case of castro says nothing good about the rest of us.
that concludes the debate on cuba. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the debate on human rights in ethiopia. i have received six motions for a resolution see minutes.
thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed, and the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution on burmasee minutes.
author. – madam president, burma has one of the world’s worst human rights and lack of democracy track records, with people-trafficking for sexual exploitation, domestic service and forced commercial labour. this is compounded by the military junta’s severe economic mismanagement. burma also remains the world’s second-largest producer of illicit opium. despite multi-party elections in 1990, which resulted in the nld victory, the repressive military junta continues to refuse to hand over power. nld leader and nobel laureate aung san suu kyi, who marked her 62nd birthday this tuesday, has been detained for more than 11 of the past 18 years. in february 2006, the junta extended her detention for yet another year. her supporters, as well as those who promote democracy and improved human rights, are routinely harassed or jailed in a country with no independent judiciary and brutal law enforcement agencies. following the recent un security council refusal to apply sanctions against burma, disgracefully, the un human rights council has focused almost entirely and exclusively on one single country – israel – totally ignoring burma. the eu, along with neighbouring asean countries, and along with india and china as well, must now do much more to apply pressure to secure aung san suu kyi’s release.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i reiterate the condemnation of the burmese regime, which is so clearly and effectively expressed in the resolution. the 17-year-long plight of aung san suu kyi is one which few human beings could withstand. she has selflessly withstood indefinite imprisonment and ongoing separation from her loved ones, yet is still showing unshakeable courage and consistency in her cause, and for this she must be applauded. she is, without doubt, a leader of our time, enduring the curtailment of her civil liberties which closely mirrors the suppression of her fellow citizens. the human rights abuses in burma span religious persecution, forced labour and detention without trial and are elements of political violence which the un has recently justifiably condemned. the signatories of this resolution wholeheartedly denounce the economic support given to the regime through investment in the arms trade and the energy industry from other far eastern countries, which only shows up this ruthless dictatorship. all democracies should seriously reconsider financing a country with one of the lowest health expenditures in the world.
that concludes the debate. the vote will take place shortly.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote, see minutes.)
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 16.10)
on behalf of the alde group. – president-in- office, congratulations on a green light for europe and a grand legacy for your leadership. action on climate change and energy security had made yours a noteworthy presidency. securing agreement for reform of our union has made it a great presidency. joseph conrad once observed ‘being a woman is a terribly difficult task, since it consists principally in dealing with men’. (laughter) nowhere was this truer than in the council, where many of your counterparts seemed intent on burying treaty reform. it is a tribute to your character that you convinced, cajoled, and cautioned agreement where none had seemed possible. who in the months following 2005’s referendum results would have thought that institutional reform was still within reach; that europe’s leaders would recognise the need for common action on energy security, climate change, foreign policy or shelve requirements for unanimity in the council in favour of qualified majority voting in 36 new policy areas? we are pleased too that you recognised europe’s growing political pluralism by giving parliament three representatives at the forthcoming intergovernmental conference. combined with making justice and home affairs subject to parliamentary scrutiny, this proves that european democracy has come of age and that this house is now an equal partner in governance. agreement came at a price, however, and that price was not simply a derogation here and an opt-out there. the real casualty was idealism: losing the symbols of our union and replacing the relative simplicity of the constitutional treaty with bureaucratic opaqueness is a pity. as a result, your new amending treaty reads like the instructions for building a japanese pagoda translated into english by the chinese middle-man. (laughter and applause)as for the content, president-in-office, the devil will be in the detail. your propensity to play the fairy godmother means, i am afraid, that the naysayers – die verfassungsfeinde heissen sie immer noch in bayern – were rewarded in proportion to their negativity, while the friends of the constitution – the silent majority – received precious little for supporting the constitution signed by all member states in rome. (applause)and so the french and the dutch struck again with a side-swipe at fair and open markets. the full effects of the british and polish derogation from the charter of fundamental rights are not yet known. for liberals and democrats it beggars belief that a british prime minister is depriving uk citizens of the rights which made his country respected – and which are now guaranteed to other citizens – in order to pander to the popular press. (loud applause) only time will tell whether the changes to the text are cosmetic, or a wholesale attack on europe’s fundamental civic and market values. however, politics is always a matter of bricolage. while the result is not flawless, the edifice you have built is sturdy: the roof should not leak as long as the building blocks of progress are cemented by the mortar of determination. let us remind national leaders here and now that europe demands give as well as take. until they resolve to cooperate fully, the union will never be fit for purpose. president-in-office, six months is barely long enough for an eu president to shine. however, as the leader who brought us the promise of a permanent president your reign was memorable. who else can boast of ending deadlock in the council and ridding us of the much-maligned pillar structure? who else can claim credit for creating a european diplomatic service and a high representative to boost our role on the world stage, and who else would have achieved so much without action which was hart aber herzlich? the portuguese presidency must harness this momentum to ensure future developments are driven not by events beyond our continent, but, in the best tradition of the european union, by idealism within. (applause)
mr president, chancellor, president barroso, i am not going to try my german out today. others have done it much better than i could. as the german presidency comes to an end, i start by congratulating the chancellor on her very successful pursuit of the climate change agenda over the past six months. the european council agreement in march regarding targets for a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, compared to 1990, was a historic one and we in the british conservative party particularly support this initiative very strongly. as to the european council last weekend, we have heard many different interpretations about the outcome of the summit. in the united kingdom, reactions to the outcome have not, of course, been universally supportive. prime minister blair, who leaves 10 downing street today, maintains that the draft reform treaty bears little resemblance to the constitutional text that preceded it. yet many of his fellow heads of government have contradicted him: the irish taoiseach and finland’s europe minister have said so, for instance – indeed the latter has said that there is nothing from the original institutional package that has been changed. so when our prime minister says that the two cannot be readily compared, i think the british people can be forgiven for feeling doubtful about what the british government has actually signed. as mr blair promised the people of britain a referendum in his last election manifesto, i really do believe it is incumbent upon his successor, gordon brown, to uphold that pledge. chancellor, i would also like to have one area of clarification on the point about the wide reports that the pursuit by the eu of free and undistorted competition has been undermined in the draft mandate for the igc. i also hear, however, that a protocol has now been annexed to make clear that the union is indeed totally committed to competition and free markets. there are reports that the german finance minister was himself concerned at the change. he is quoted as saying, ‘i see this with a certain scepticism. if things go on like this, i see a risk’. to many british people, the internal market and a genuinely competitive economy form a vital basis for their support for britain’s membership of the union, and they would rightly be concerned at any attempt to undermine that. i would be most grateful if the chancellor could give reassurances to me on that point.
mr president, thank you for bringing some real politics to the european council. in three days’ time you will be free of the presidency and be able to advance german policy with great self-confidence across the european stage. could you assure us that germany will always fight to combat the version of pick-and-choose europe that is tony blair’s sad legacy? my view is that it is sensible now to put into practice the closer cooperation revisions that we see inside the treaty. you spoke of the african proverb which says that you go faster by yourself, but you go further with others. the problem is that if you stick to the british government’s approach, we will simply continue to go around in circles. show the way forward, break out of the corral, and the more timid and conservative partners will follow.
mr president, you have described the new treaty as retaining the substance of the constitution. chancellor merkel agreed with that today. commissioner wallström said that it was essentially the same proposal as the old constitution, and governments across europe have described it as 99% the same. you and they, mr president, are right! yet there is one leader – correction, erstwhile leader, tony blair – who pretends it is something totally different. why? so that he can con the people of the united kingdom out of the referendum he promised them because he knows he cannot win it. the shameless dissembling of the british government, however, will not deceive the british people, because we know that when a treaty looks like a constitution, when it talks like a constitution, and when it would walk us like a constitution into a stronger stranglehold of control from brussels, then it is a constitution, howsoever you might deceptively describe it. that is why the people of the united kingdom still demand a referendum, and anything less would be a cheat.
in writing. – the package agreed by the 27 governments last weekend salvaged many of the practical institutional reforms that were contained in the constitutional treaty. however, it also dropped many key features: the notion of a ‘constitution’; the loss of the title and status of ‘foreign minister’; the fact that the charter of fundamental rights will not be spelt out visibly in full in the treaty, and not be enforceable in british courts; the removal of the symbols (flag and anthem); the abandonment of changes on legal terminology (where ‘regulations’ and ‘directives’ would have been called ‘laws’ and ‘framework laws’); the postponement of and changes to the new voting weights in the council; and various derogations given to individual member states, such as the uk. these will be seen by the european parliament as major sacrifices, but they are necessary to secure ratification of the package by all 27 countries.
mr president, i would like to speak in favour of referring this report back to the committee. there was a lot of concern in committee when the vote was taken to reject this proposal and no doubt the groups involved had reasons for doing that, but one of the consequences was that many road safety issues were then rejected also. rather than go through the whole procedure in this plenary, my group and i feel that it would be far better if we refer the whole markov report back to committee as of today, take it off the agenda and basically start again with our discussions between all the groups in the hope that we can come to a proper solution.
mr president, the belgian government recently passed a law requiring supermarkets to charge customers for plastic bags. i commend it on this action. it is a step on the way to a better environment. a similar law was passed in ireland some years ago and it was also very successful, reducing carrier bag usage by up to 90%. this shows how member states, when left to handle their own affairs and without eu interference, can solve their problems quite well by themselves. but i note that the supermarket in parliament’s basement in brussels is not charging for carrier bags. i have written to the manager of the supermarket asking why this law should not be applied in his shop. but perhaps this is another example of one law for ordinary folk and another law that is ignored for a privileged few.
mr president, i find it very odd, as an mep from a very developed and wealthy country, to be standing here to draw attention to a natural disaster of huge proportions in the region i represent. last week, just a few miles from my own home, i was taken to see homes where there are piles of furniture in each garden; homes that have been abandoned completely as their owners dare not come back yet; homes inside which floodwater had risen up to a metre or more – risen through the floor with extensive rainfall: two months’ rain falling in just 12 hours. thousands of homes were destroyed, schools closed indefinitely, businesses and farms wiped out – often in communities that were previously in receipt of european structural funding. yesterday, there were buses bringing humanitarian aid – buses that normally service communities in africa. the whole thing is incongruous, unreal – but very real and very devastating to the individuals whose homes and community infrastructure have been destroyed. we hope our government will make an application to the eu solidarity fund. i hope this house will support it. it would be appreciated if the house could show its support to these communities in the region of yorkshire.
mr president, you will be aware that a million european citizens have signed a petition calling for this parliament to have one seat. this was a major expression of the will of the people, not only because this parliament could save the taxpayers about eur 200 million a year, but also because we as responsible parliamentarians could be seen to be taking action to cut our carbon emissions. as members of this parliament, i believe we have a duty to listen to and respond to the wishes of the people. however, this is an issue that can be addressed only by the intergovernmental conference. i therefore urge the presidency and the bureau of this parliament to take action on this matter and to raise the subject in advance of the forthcoming intergovernmental conference. surely the time has come for this parliament to listen to and respond to the concerns and the demands of one million european citizens and to debate this issue properly.
mr president, this weekend germany played serbia in heidelberg for the first time at the great game of rugby league, or rugby à treize. however, the htv rugby union club in heidelberg, aided by the german rugby union, tried to disrupt the event with disgraceful behaviour. they went around tearing down posters advertising the game; they threatened german players that if they played rugby league for their country they would be banned from playing rugby union. the national trainer of the german rugby union team, prior to the playing of the national anthems, threatened a player and banned him from playing, against his wishes, for his country. htv played on the designated pitch the day before even though the local authority had forbidden them from doing so, thus ruining the playing surface for the international match the following day. the germany vs serbia rugby league match was recognised as an international by the rugby league international board european federation. the actions of htv rugby union club and german rugby union are something we expect from a banana republic, not a nation in the eu, and show how bigoted the german rugby union and the htv club have become. their behaviour was disgraceful and shocked the spectators. this blatant discrimination and intimidation cannot be tolerated and will, i would hope, be condemned by this house and by the commission. i would ask the german authorities to withdraw all support from the htv rugby union club and the german rugby union until their attitudes change.
mr president, at a time of spiralling disaster in zimbabwe, many of us are alarmed at reports that the eu presidency intends to invite robert mugabe to the proposed eu-africa summit in lisbon. mugabe, of course, bears personal responsibility for the zimbabwean tragedy and tops the list of zimbabweans banned from travel to eu countries under the eu’s targeted sanctions. parliament understands the importance of the summit, but has made its view clear, most recently in its resolution of 26 april when it called on the council ‘to ensure that no banned persons are invited to or attend the planned eu-africa summit in lisbon in december’. if the eu is to have any credibility, it must at least stand by its own sanctions policies. it is disappointing there is no representative of the council here, mr president, but can i ask you strongly to reaffirm parliament’s declared policy to the council.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, there is no wealth without health. that is the theme of this debate and the sub-plot is that we have both to care and cure, but also to prevent ill-health and promote wellbeing. the commissioner recognises this and has come forward with an ambitious programme, as our rapporteur has said, but the budget was savaged by two-thirds. so it is clear we must do better on budgets in the future; it is clear we must use our limited resources now wisely; it is clear we must target the non-communicable diseases that cause 86% of deaths in europe and devastate lives and families – cardiovascular disease, cancer, mental illness, diabetes, respiratory and musculoskeletal conditions. that of course links into the resolution that you have before you: 42% of deaths in the eu come from cvd problems. our emphasis must be on lifestyle. some 80% of heart attacks, stroke and diabetes, and some 40% of cancers could be avoided by changing lifestyle and cutting out the risks that come from a bad lifestyle. we will sometimes need education or legislation on smoking, drugs, alcohol, salt, saturated and trans fats, lack of exercise, as well as things like stress management and all the causes of hypertension. we need partnerships between people, governments, health services and employers. and we need ideas such as the one on the defibrillator that my colleague referred to. i could end by saying the road to hell is often said to be paved with good intentions, but the health promotion case studies show that, as in north karelia, if good intentions are translated into action, then the road can lead not to hell but to health.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, my first thanks go to mr trakatellis for his excellent work on getting agreement today on a package of amendments on the public health programme. it has not been easy: we have had lots of meetings over the course of the last few months, but we finally have a package that the socialist group welcomes. we welcome the very clear commitment to tackling health inequalities which is contained in the package. we welcome, as mr bowis said, the action on major diseases which are the biggest killers in europe. we want to see better use made of the centres of reference across europe and we are also pleased that ngos and patients’ organisations will have better access to funding thanks to this programme that will see emphasis placed on the wider environmental determinants of heath. we all know that health suffers because of environmental issues and we want to see that tackled. like the other speakers, i think it is regrettable that we have a lower budget than we had thought in the first place but, as the commission has said on many occasions, there are other framework programmes where health can be investigated so this is not the only money made available for health research in the eu. i want to draw your attention to amendment 19, which the socialist group has tabled separately from the package. in recital 14 we talk about increasing healthy life years, and we want to delete the words ‘also called disability-free life expectancy indicator’. we have had many approaches from disability organisations, which make the point that you can have a disability and be healthy and that, therefore, this terminology seems to suggest that if you are a disabled person you are automatically somebody who is unhealthy. therefore, we would like the commission and the council to look at that when they look at the final wording for the document. finally, i want to put on record my thanks as well to the german presidency negotiating team who helped us to reach agreement today and took on board so many of our parliamentary amendments from first reading. i look forward to getting the programme up and running on time next year. that is what everybody wants at this stage and that is why we have been prepared to compromise on the budget, but we are very pleased with the content.
mr president, as my group’s shadow on the motion for a resolution on action to tackle cardiovascular disease, i would like wholeheartedly to endorse this worthy initiative and thank mr ouzký, mr andrejevs and mr bowis for all their hard work. i feel i can but reiterate the content of the resolution and add my voice to the call for action and other points raised in the oral question. i find it shocking that nearly half of all deaths in europe are caused by cardiovascular disease and that it is the main cause of death for women in all european countries. i welcome the specific mention of cardiovascular disease in the 2008-2013 health programme, but i am somewhat disappointed at the vastly reduced budget allocation given the fact that cardiovascular disease costs the european union’s countries eur 169 billion each year. the eu has so much to offer in terms of added value which would surely repay many times any money spent on combating it. nevertheless, i fully support the compromise reached and recognise that it is necessary to have this funding in place as soon as possible. any further delay in adopting the programme would not be desirable. there is much action at eu level where value can be added and it is for this reason that we need a tangible european strategy on cardiovascular disease which can help member states to improve and coordinate their prevention strategies, identify those who are at high risk, raise awareness, inform the public and promote exchange of best practice. a set of clear political guidelines should form part of this strategy. i would like to conclude by reiterating my support for the motion for a resolution and i urge the commission to bring forward without delay a comprehensive and coherent eu-wide strategy on cardiovascular disease incorporating the european parliament’s suggestions.
mr president, i am afraid that i am going to continue in a slightly sceptical line, but first of all a question to the commissioner. could he please tell us what is the legal basis of this agreement from the eu side? the only reference i can find to any legal instruments in it are to us statutes. i do not find any reference to legal bases from the treaties. i remember talk of articles 24 and 38 earlier on. if article 38 is one of them, then why is the european parliament not formally consulted? secondly, we hear a lot about needing this to fight terrorism. if terrorism is such an important priority of the eu, why have we gone four months without a counter-terrorism coordinator? thirdly, this agreement is about collecting a huge amount of data on everyone, as a basis for profiling, data mining etc., but we have very poor implementation of targeted measures against terrorism. the director of interpol has just launched what has been called in the press an ‘unprecedented attack on the uk’ for failing to check visitors against the interpol database of stolen passports. when the commission produced a report last year on the common position of january 2005, it was distinctly unimpressed by member states’ achievements. only a small number of member states had established infrastructures for authorities to search the interpol databases – 8 of the 25 member states did not respond to the commission’s inquiries – and very few member states had made sure that their law enforcement authorities searched the database. member states are completely ignoring their obligations. finally, we have the eu apis directive of 2004, which should have been implemented last year. could the commissioner tell us whether the member states have implemented this directive, why it is concerned only with illegal immigration and why it does not provide for visitors to be checked against terrorist watch lists? there are plenty of measures out there which are being completely unimplemented by member states. let us do that first before we have mass surveillance of the whole population.
mr president, i hope the commission will heed the vote of the committee when preparing the revision of the directive and not kow-tow to member states which protect companies which overcharge their consumers. they have a vested interest in maintaining a system where there is an inbuilt conflict of interests which stops competitors from having access to the same market. these are often the same companies which care more about giving profits to their shareholders than providing serious investments to ensure that the lights are kept on. i urge you not even to offer the iso model, which would require a magnificently complicated regulatory system which would have to be policed by an army of officials, but understand also that ownership unbundling needs rules. we need to ensure that we protect energy networks from hedge funds or private equity, which will not give the long-term investment commitment that is necessary, and let us stop third-country companies from buying either generation or energy networks if there is no reciprocal agreement with that country. i urge you also to put right the false impression on ownership unbundling spun by the german presidency following the last energy council meeting. the majority of member states are in favour of full ownership unbundling, especially in electricity. do not be bullied by the big boys and let democracy and the consumers speak.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, we have been through these arguments on a number of occasions so i shall keep my argument as brief as possible. the only remaining issue to be resolved, as the commissioner and mrs sornosa martínez pointed out, is that of barometers. i have to say that i remain deeply convinced that both the commission and the council, and some members of this parliament, have got the argument completely wrong. there is no justification whatsoever for a ban on barometers. they are only being singled out because there is only a relatively small number of companies which still produce them in europe and they are an easy target as far as the commission is concerned, to make it look as though they are actually doing something about mercury, whereas the big sources of release of mercury – from power stations, crematoria, etc. – are not being tackled because, of course, to tackle them would be very expensive for member state governments and local authorities. this parliament passed an amendment to exempt barometer-makers at first reading in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and in this parliament. the council then rejected it, albeit with a two-year phase-out period. the environment committee did not support the amendment this time round, i am sorry to say, but i have retabled the amendments in order to give parliament a further opportunity to make a decision on this and, as members are no doubt aware, a very vigorous campaign is being fought by a number of independent operators and distributors throughout europe. it is a completely illogical position to say that antique instruments will be exempted but new instruments will be banned. there are probably more antique instruments being circulated and placed on the market in europe than there are new instruments being created. it is a very small minority specialist market and europe brings itself into disrepute by delegitimising, by banning, by forcing out of business, a small number of very entrepreneurial and gifted craftsmen. they can be controlled by a proper licensing and control regime which they have said that they are willing to pay for. that would be by far the most sensible solution rather than an outright ban and to force a number of small companies out of business, thereby losing the skills and traditions that have existed in europe for several hundred years.
mr president, i think we should remind ourselves that this is part of a wider strategy to phase out mercury. no sector has been singled out – not thermometers, nor barometers – because there is going to be a set of actions over a number of years. i think mr ulmer got it right: we have agreed under the reach directive that if there is a safe alternative to dangerous chemicals, we should move towards that alternative. we have all agreed on that in this house; all the major political groups signed up to reach. so to say ‘let us make an exemption for barometers’ at this stage is totally inconsistent with the reach directive. what is more, the reach directive would cover barometers. there is an amendment about licensing barometers. well, that does not address the issue of spillages, accidental damage or waste disposal, landfill and incineration. in the united states in may, somebody found a broken barometer in a storage cupboard in a school. the school was closed for a week. the whole school had to be evacuated and there was a clean-up bill amounting to thousands of dollars. sixteen us states are moving towards mercury prohibitions on barometers and other equipment. in fact, they are going much further than the european commission is proposing to go here today. so anybody who is talking about nanny-state europe is totally misplaced when they are looking at the barometer issue. the pse group pushed for the two-year phase-out for the barometer industry. we know these are small companies, we know it will pose some difficulties for them, but i think they were aware of the reach directive coming their way anyway, and i think this is a sensible compromise. finally, mr schlyter talked about how he used to play with mercury when he was a child. many people have said this to me during the course of this debate. we used to play with it in the past. i always point out that we used to drive in cars without seatbelts; we used to breathe in leaded petrol; and at christmas time i used to get sweet cigarettes in my christmas stocking. there are things to change and i think now is the time to change them.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is, for us, the final chapter of a very long-running play that started with a commission proposal in july 2003, but had a longer period of preparation stretching back beyond that. it has very much been a first for the european parliament, with there being no previous international convention to work on; it was the first time we had codecision in this area and it was the first time that we experienced conciliation in this area. i, for my part, would like to thank all those in parliament’s conciliation delegation who participated. we left a clear mark, on behalf of parliament, on the final text – a text which, thanks to parliament, goes beyond the mere technical and legal, bringing private international law into the open to serve the practical needs of our citizens, particularly in the area of road traffic accidents. however, we also dealt with technical issues: clarifying definitions on the environment or supplying a solution on the issue of unfair competition, and then grappling with the relationship between european conflict of law rules and internal market instruments. i am not entirely sure that we got it right. i find i have been congratulated from many quarters, which makes me a little nervous. then we are still trying to have the same debates around rome i and the review of the consumer acquis. we have, at some point, to get this relationship correct. it was heartening to us, as parliament, to have representatives from no less than three dgs of the commission present at the conciliation and working together. i hope that in future we will be able to reinforce that and see civil justice as a thread that runs through many of the issues that we deal with in the internal market. there are many leftovers from rome ii that form the basis of studies that i hope the commissioner will mention in his declaration – studies on road traffic accidents, on defamation, and on the treatment of foreign law. all these issues are absolutely integral to the relationship between civil justice and the internal market. indeed, we could say that the internal market will function only if we have a coherent system of civil justice. civil justice cannot just be an add-on to the internal market – some sort of limited competence where we tread only reluctantly at the invitation of member states. i seem to remember a long time ago in 1999 in tampere that there was a vision of an area of civil justice. rome ii was part of that. we need to refocus, to question whether we have a civil justice system in europe that functions for all the users of the internal market and for our citizens, and is accessible and understandable. rome ii plays its part as forming the basis – the initial roadmap – but the following studies give us the chance to re-evaluate and make the next steps forward.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs would have preferred to make the full accomplishment of the postal internal market subject to a new prospective study, showing that universal service could be maintained in each member state, and looking at how to maintain or improve the employment situation in the postal sector. however, sometimes politics is about the art of the possible, and i know my good friend brian simpson negotiated the best possible deal he could with the rapporteur and the other shadows in the committee on transport and tourism. we are pleased at the clear emphasis placed on maintaining the provision of universal service and on the number of safeguards built into the report in the form in which it will come before this house. we are also happy about the report’s focus on the need to ensure good social and employment standards as liberalisation begins to unfold. this is an important point given that even deutsche post has expressed some disquiet over declining employment standards amongst some new entrants to the german postal market. we accept that this was the best achievable deal at this late stage in the liberalisation process.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i congratulate our rapporteur, mr ferber, on his work on this report. it is a long time since he and i first crossed swords on postal services many years ago. in fact, i think we may even have still had the berlin wall at the time, which just shows you how long this has been going on. postal services are a highly personal and highly political issue. that is why they are different to other sectors, like telecoms and energy, because post, as i have often said in this house, is about people; it is about frontline public service. that is why it is important and generates a lot of interest. i know in the work we have done in committee we have tried to take on board the views of other committees and political groups. and, after a lot of hard work, and i have to say a great deal of good will, we reached an agreement, which i think is a good one. i just want to say that this particular directive is not really about liberalisation. the argument as to whether we should liberalise the post was lost many years ago. mr hughes is right when he says that politics is about the art of the possible. and those who are a minority – and i respect them for their views – who think that we should stay with the old ways, stay with the monopolistic sector and reserved area, well, whilst i see the merits of their argument, in the real world, that is not where we are, that is not where we are living. the vast majority of our member states have liberalised; the vast majority of those who have not would like to and so, therefore, it is a dose of reality that is sometimes needed. parliament agreed to controlled liberalisation and, indeed, in its last pronouncement agreed that that should be on 1 january 2009. yet, since then, we have had the accession of the new member states and my group believes that that means we need to think through what we did previously with a view to a different timetable and delaying the implementation for those who need it. but i have to say that, whilst the commission is strong on universal service, it is weak on how to finance that universal service within its proposals. so let us look at the key issue. how do we guarantee a universal service, and a universal service that treats all citizens equally, irrespective of where they live? that is why we support the guarantee of access points in rural and peripheral areas. how do we finance that universal service? how do we have the national plans in place to enable that to happen? how do we protect the workers and their working conditions, and how do we ensure that the new member states are not forced into competition that they cannot sustain? that is where the timescale is important. they are the issues we have addressed in this report and in the compromise that we reached and i hope parliament will support that compromise tomorrow.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, managing a postal system delivering to every part of the uk six days a week, as experienced by the british for more than a century, is a uk issue, not for eu rubberstamping. efficient mail delivery encourages business, especially in rural areas. it is a public service. the royal mail may require subsidies to deliver to remote outposts, including scottish islands. that is a matter for central and local british government, not the eu. the eu concept favours more junk mail which is not required by the british, nor by their recycling bins. as usual, the eu wishes to micro-manage every aspect, destroying methods which have worked well for years, whilst dictating rules which limit innovation. the eu meddling with the uk postal system is as foreign to me as britain fiddling with the flemish, finnish or french letters. you may expect that i should welcome postdating of the full market to december 2010. in fact, i reject the entire directive on the simple british principle of mind your own business and we will get it sorted, not the apparent eu directive of stand and deliver while we envelop you in red tape. in short, i mark this directive ‘return to sender’.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the financial services action plan is a huge, complex body of regulation. in the vain attempt to harmonise financial products and to legislate risk away, the only effect will be to drive business out of the european union. even the city of london is now realising that the costs of compliance with the markets in financial instruments directive are likely to be far greater than any benefits from greater market access. and there are always unwanted side effects. the rapporteur complains that not enough is being done for the retail consumer of financial services. she says the basic needs for every citizen are access to a bank account, financial transfers at low cost and the possibility to save or borrow money. but the largest impediment to retail banking is the highly bureaucratic know-your-client procedures that banks must follow as a result of the eu’s own money-laundering regulations. in english, we would call this ‘shooting yourself in the foot’.
madam president, i have three words of caution, or three points, on our report. firstly, where i have disagreed most in this report is in the fashion zone, where it is de rigueur to criticise private equity and, even more so, hedge funds. it can be good to look at things, analyse and discuss, but it is then wrong to prejudge what is needed as the outcome just in order to be fashionable. secondly, in paragraph 6 we refer to the concentration of financial services provided to large listed companies. it may be proper to mention audit firms in this context as their consolidation has left us with less than a handful that can do large audits. however, it is not correct to suggest that investment banks are in a comparable concentration, given that none of the top three have a 10% market share. indeed, viewed in that light, to mention investment banks dilutes the very point we wish to make about audit firms. thirdly, with the regard to the issue of supervision, this is very interesting, but cooperation and changes are under way. levels 2 and 3 have to bed down and be refined. how can the next stage be evaluated before outcome of the last is known?
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the rapporteur’s first draft was not well received in committee, because he was trying to cut back on red tape and to reduce the regulations meant to protect workers but which, in fact, cause unemployment. we are debating the second draft, which was more acceptable: he had toned it down. a pity, because it means we are to continue with many of the restrictive practices in the name of harmonisation, while all the time that which you fear – globalisation – is stealing up on you. for that, the eu will have to cope with competition on the free world markets, but you are not prepared for that. unless you learn to compete in europe, you will not be able to compete globally. footballers continually practise ball skills and teamwork; they do not prepare for a match by playing cards in a backstreet bar! likewise, continued practice in europe’s protectionist systems will mean defeat in the most competitive matches played away on hostile, global playing fields.
(non-attached). – madam president, it is the policy of my party, the british conservative party, to reinstate the opt-out which was agreed at maastricht and to withdraw the united kingdom from eu employment and social legislation. i trust that my conservative colleagues in this house will have the full support of their political group, the ppe-de, in implementing this policy. turning to the report, i was astonished to read in recital c that ‘the eu is not only a free trade area’. anyone who knows the first thing about international trade will know that the eu is not a free trade area at all: it is a customs union. they will also know that the customs union or zollverein is a 19th century bismarckian concept which should have no place in the 21st century. all the evidence from around the world shows that free trade areas work, while customs unions work far less well. indeed, the eu is the only group of developed countries still operating in this outdated mode. if this house wishes to convert the eu from a customs union with political pretensions into a modern effective free trade area, it will have my full support. the commission’s proposals on modernising labour law and our first draft report show a belated recognition of the huge damage that intrusive and inflexible labour market rules have done to european economies. they made the first tentative steps towards liberalisation. however, amendments passed in the unemployment committee reverse the direction and turn the report into a regressive socialist wish-list of deeply harmful proposals. today’s amendments restore the balance, and so long as they are maintained the report’s timid measures are better than nothing and deserve our support. paragraph 2 quotes the charter of fundamental rights. that charter was signed off twice by tony blair, yet after the brussels summit of 22 june he came back like chamberlain from munich declaring he had protected his red line and that the charter would not affect uk labour law. could the commission please give me a clear ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer? is blair’s opt-out legally defensible? i look forward to the commission’s reply.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote, see minutes.)
thank you, mrs berès. so we are voting only on the second part.
i therefore move straight to the single vote.
thank you, mrs lulling. the house is obviously grateful for your advice.
we have heard what you say, but believe you me everybody here does their utmost to listen and to watch, but we take note of what you say.
in writing. i voted in favour of the amendments to exempt barometers from this overly prescriptive legislation and, upon defeat of the amendments, i voted against the report. the total ban on mercury instruments destroys a long-standing craft industry in the uk and is the product of obsessive meddling by brussels in matters far beyond what is necessary or sensible.
in writing. i am appalled that we are still producing legislation which puts jobs at risk for no real environmental benefit. uk barometer-making, like that in other member states, is a traditional industry dating back several centuries. it is clearly necessary that the use of mercury is properly controlled and we have made substantial progress in recent years on related matters such as storage and export. however, it should be possible to safeguard traditional barometer-making by ensuring that proper safety warnings etc. are used. there is no need to destroy a long-established craft simply because it is easier to have ‘one size fits all’ legislation. social europe means nothing if it means putting people in traditional crafts out of work.
in writing. although i agree with the principles contained within the amendments on the labelling of gmos, i abstained because i believe these matters should be addressed by national governments and should not become an eu competence.
in writing. i will be voting for this report. i welcome in particular the commitment to labelling gmos. i do not share entirely the concerns expressed by some of my colleagues as to the safety of gmos. my judgement is different. as a scientist i believe gmos have a role to play. nevertheless, i do accept that others have the right to make their own choices. therefore, labelling enables those whose judgement differs from mine to avoid products they chose to reject.
in writing. although we agree with the principles contained within these amendments on the labelling of gmos, ukip has abstained because these matters should be addressed by national governments and should not become an eu competence.
in writing. amendment 38 – providing that gmo-derived content of food be indicated by labelling – attracts abstention (rather than support) despite its inherent desirability, owing to its dangerously and irreformably undemocratic source (eu institutions). in other words, i consider centralist eu rule, without democratic accountability, to be more of a threat to civilisation than are unlabelled, gmo-derived food additives. therefore, i abstain rather than voting for this amendment.
in writing. there is no european critical infrastructure, it is national. its protection is the responsibility of national governments, particularly given the threats facing the democracies from terrorism. i am, of course, in favour of measures that would genuinely enhance security. however, the directive is a further step in the eu's attempts to extend its reach into the security and defence sphere. this is its most objectionable element. the commission seems to view security as a means to ensure that the, 'stability of the internal market is maintained', which misses the point. the proposed system of reporting risk and threat assessments to the commission merely creates additional bureaucratic burdens and structures. the requirement for member states to notify the commission of specific critical infrastructures is counter-productive, as it would produce a list of targets that would be of great interest to the wrong people.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for his cooperation. this debate is about the future of labour law and we must recognise the current reality, which is that there has been an increase in non-standard contracts and that we must focus on employment security rather than on job security. i do not believe we should be calling for a definition of worker at eu level. that should be left up to member states. as far as collective bargaining is concerned, it still has a very significant role to play, but we must make sure that people who do not belong to a trade union have a way into the process. as, too, should small and medium-sized enterprises. at the moment, the commission’s list of social partners is short, and i believe it fails to truly take into account the views of smes, which are in many ways the engine room of europe’s economy. i urge everyone here to vote for the alde group’s amendments.
mr president, there are over 1 million temporary agency workers in britain, and more than 6 million across europe, according to the dublin foundation. it is the biggest growing form of atypical work in the eu over the last 20 years, yet this is a group of workers denied employment protection under eu law. in my own east of england constituency up to 80 000 migrant workers have come from the so-called accession-8 countries, the largest number anywhere in the uk. many arrive thanks to employment agencies and too many suffer abuse, though not all of them. take the agency workers identified by the communication workers union contracted to british telecom in norwich, ipswich and brentwood who have missed out on two successive pay rises, get 16 – not 25 – days’ holiday, and are paid 50% less overtime compared with their permanent colleagues. or the bernard matthews workers in norfolk and suffolk, 60% agency workers recruited in portugal awarded just gbp 19 per day for six days when they were laid off in response to the bird flu outbreak. to the commission i say you offer ‘flexicurity’. we see, indeed we welcome, some of the flexibility, but where is the security if it is not for temporary agency workers? to the incoming portuguese presidency, there must be a sensible compromise in the qualifying period, but this is a directive that has never been voted on since eu enlargement. put it to the vote, see where the majority is. the government in the uk has said it will support the directive. so should the whole of europe.
mr president, i should like to start, if i may, by thanking the commission for its very thoughtful green paper. the commission’s work has given rise to this report, and its work has triggered this debate. i think the fact that it was written the way it was – and indeed that the commission has consulted as widely and as richly as it has – has certainly added further richness to our own deliberations. i would certainly hope that, at the end of the vote tomorrow, after all the amendments have been voted on, the commissioner in turn might consider it appropriate to thank parliament for our positive response to its work, but we shall see how we do. mention has already been made of the rapporteur and the outstanding job that he has done and i would like to associate myself with those remarks. a lot of comments have been made by different colleagues about the word ‘flexibility’. i think the rapporteur has shown great flexibility in recognising the validity of concerns expressed by members of other political groups, but i think also that flexibility has been shown by the shadows in taking on board the position of the rapporteur. i would like to thank all of those for their work. earlier in our debate, mr szymański said that he could not extend his congratulations to the work of the committee. i have some sympathy with those comments. i would just like to say to him that, in the context of limited time, the report that came out of the committee was in essence an interim report. i have every confidence that the report which will come out of this house tomorrow after the amendments will be on a substantially different basis and that a potentially divisive issue will end up giving a clearly united message. finally, i would like to ask the commission, in its analysis of our discussions, to take a look at what is taken out of the report between the committee stage and this stage. i think that has a significant message. i should also like the commission to consider what is left in. i want particularly to draw attention to paragraph 10 concerning the issue of working time and the need for greater flexibility for employees and employers alike. it is one thing to say that we need more flexibility. we invite the commission to show that same flexibility in advancing that very difficult and sensitive file. finally, i would just like to mention our assistants, and here i mean not just assistants to us as meps, but also the assistants of our parliamentary groups. they are so often the forgotten heroes and heroines. i think that the work that they have done has been remarkable, especially in such a remarkably short time. so hopefully on behalf of all of you, i would like to thank and congratulate them for all that they have done.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, one of the challenges of trying to produce an oral question followed by an immediate resolution in a very short space of time is to get it to reflect fully everything we want it to say. i think on this occasion, as in maybe some others, the very rush has meant that not all of us agree with the wording of every detail of the resolution. that is not meant to be a criticism of political opponents on the other side of the house. it is just meant to be a comment, a statement of where it is. i would like to add – unofficially in any response and consideration the commission gives to this – the following question. if the current directive is not being implemented satisfactorily in all member states, could the commission please consider taking a bit more time out to understand why? are there some intrinsic problems with the directive? are there some issues that certain member states still have with it? so rather than us just forcibly saying ‘the directive is the directive is the directive, thou shalt implement it without delay’, please can we look at listening a little bit more, because i am sure there is something we can learn. in principle, we are all for having a directive in this area so that there is clarity. the final thing i would just say is certainly from this side of the house. we are interested in helping workers being posted. we are interested of course in their security of work conditions, but we are interested in promoting their mobility. we are not interested in using this as a device for protectionism to prevent workers being posted.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, i too would like to thank willi piecyk for a brilliant report and for an object lesson in how cooperation between committees should take place. what the fisheries committee set out to do was to produce a maritime strategy designed to develop protection, enhance our marine heritage and encourage the sustainable exploitation of our seas and oceans, but i think – to repeat what the commissioner said – without effectively tackling the fundamental causes of climate change now, the whole eu maritime policy could be rendered worthless. a sustainable fishing industry helps to meet this criterion and thus if fishing does not take its rightful place at the core of the eu’s maritime strategy then these needs will be met by products caught by people using methods and in places over which we have no control at all. the importance of this streamlining of management cannot be understated. this would bring benefits to everybody and to the environment as a whole. the ‘polluter pays’ principle is currently a rule which is not adhered to in the eu maritime sector. companies who pollute the sea should contribute to an eu-wide fund geared toward fisheries restocking and environmental conservation. the fisheries report also points out the significance of improving the image of the fisheries sector, calling for more resources devoted to research and education aimed at improving knowledge and skills. i also agree with the commission that the network of marine protected areas across eu waters should be extended and a system of integrated coastal zone management set up to ensure that we put a stop to the wanton degradation of habitats and sharp decline in biodiversity which have been all too commonplace in recent years. i look forward to the action plan in the autumn from the commission.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the eu has about 65 000 kilometres of coastline. scotland has about one-sixth of that and 95 inhabited islands. clearly, we have much to offer as well as much to gain from an eu maritime strategy which helps us to sustain and develop our coastal communities. scotland is energy rich with oil and gas reserves and offshore wind and wave generation potential. scotland is well placed to develop further maritime transport hub facilities. scotland has excellent marine research facilities which can contribute to a better understanding of marine environment issues, and, in spite of the cfp, scotland still has a high proportion of the eu’s fishing industry. the idea of an eu maritime strategy is to be welcomed but it must not signal a shift towards eu waters being regarded as a common resource with no particular attachment to individual maritime nations. let the eu act only where our maritime nations require action or support for their own strategic planning. let us learn the lessons of the cfp and its failure.
(non-attached). – madam president, much can sound plausible about a maritime package, but what i fear about a maritime policy for the eu is that it will be used by the commission to grab powers to control every facet of life, events and activities at sea. considering the unmitigated disaster which the existing competence of the eu in fisheries policy has been for the united kingdom under the iniquitous common fisheries policy, i have little confidence that anything better would result from delivering the totality of maritime affairs to the eu. excessive regulation, stifling controls and witless directives would, i fear, result. indeed, even on fisheries, what i read in this report is a blueprint for driving more fishermen out of employment under the guise of even further restricting effort under a so-called ‘precautionary approach’.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s green paper and today make the case for my own region, the east of england, to host the proposed european centre of excellence in the uk. with 700 km of low-lying coastline, major ports at great yarmouth, ipswich, felixstowe, harwich and tilbury, areas of outstanding natural beauty in north norfolk and on the stour and orwell estuaries, for us it is a practical, not a theoretical, ambition to create a better relationship between people and the sea. we need to build on the eu-funded centre promoting renewable energy in lowestoft – due to open this year – where my region’s potential for offshore wind development could meet 25% of the united kingdom’s electricity needs and make a major contribution towards european targets to cut carbon emissions. we need to recognise that rising sea levels – 40 cm by 2050 in the east of england – mean that current plans for coastline protection against erosion and flooding are no more than a sticking plaster for our region and for europe. devastating floods across east anglia in 1953 killed 307 people, and today nearly half a million properties are at risk. we have to do more. finally, the maritime strategy must support economic development in maritime regions. we suffer from peripherality. in my region, king’s lynn, clacton-on-sea, southend-on-sea and thurrock are amongst the top 10% in terms of multiple deprivation in the uk. in port development, tourism and regeneration, we have to make the concept of sustainable development a reality.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, madam president of the council, in accordance with article 88a of directive 2001/83/ec, the commission is currently preparing a report on current practices in informing patients about medicinal products. the report will provide a summary of the current state of play, but not yet any policy guidelines or proposals which are to be developed in a second stage under article 88a. as soon as the final version of the report is available, it shall be submitted to the council and the european parliament without delay. in the context of the preparation, the commission services consulted extensively with patient and consumer associations, member states and other stakeholders. in accordance with the usual procedure, the public was consulted for more than two months, from april to june this year. the draft has been published on the website of the directorate-general for enterprise and industry and a request for an opinion has been made. so far, more than fifty contributions have been received, and more are added daily. ten of these contributions come from patient and consumer associations. this strongly demonstrates that consumer organisations, as well as all other stakeholders and the general public, have had the opportunity to express their views and contributions to this report and have done so extensively. the responses received will be examined very carefully and on the basis of this examination the final report will consider the best strategy to ensure equal access to the most relevant information on medicinal products for all european citizens. i would like to assure you, madam president, that this issue is very close to my heart, that i will do everything to bring this process to a conclusion as quickly as possible, but it is absolutely crucial that we make proposals based on full information and full public consultation, and that in my view accuracy, precision and quality are clearly more important than speed in this matter.
thank you, commissioner. i think there is great concern over how parties have been consulted. many of us here feel that there should be no change to the current legislation, i.e. keep the ban on direct consumer advertising and no backdoor routes to direct advertising of pharmaceuticals. we need to allow more consumer involvement in the pharmaceutical forum with a focus on what patients and ordinary consumers want and need to know rather than what industry wants to provide. therefore, will the commissioner consider changes to the timetable adopted to allow for appropriate consideration of all alternative points of view and to address the problem of information in a patient-centred way with patient-centred solutions?
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam deputy, i would like to begin by assuring you that we are in complete agreement on the political assessment: we must not open the door to product advertising in the field of prescription medicines! with my help, that won't happen. it can only be about providing patients with objective, comprehensive, neutral information in a way that does not confuse patients, that ensures that all patients have equal access to this objective and neutral information. the problem we have today is that there are groups of patients who have access to all kinds of information via the internet and other modern communication technologies. but many patients don't have that information, and that's a condition we need to eliminate. i would like to make it clear once again: the limit of product advertising will not be crossed! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the timetable, i have already said that the consultation phase is over. we are working very hard to complete the final report now on the basis of this consultation. i already promised you that i would do everything to speed this up. it will certainly be in the second half of this year.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the labour market in europe is generally improving, and improving in a way that is very rapid and very clear. never before have so many people been employed in europe, and for the first time in a long time we have such low unemployment rates. however, the high rate of youth unemployment remains, at more than twice the average rate in the european union. youth unemployment is primarily a matter for member states in their labour market policies. on the other hand, it is clear that the european union can also contribute to solving this problem. the european union's key role is to support the member states in two areas: coordinating and monitoring the member states' national employment policies within the framework of the lisbon strategy; and providing financial support, in particular through the european social fund. the framework for policy coordination is provided by the revised lisbon strategy. the commission closely monitors national employment policies. in the latest joint employment report, the commission and the council underlined the urgent need to improve the situation of young people in the labour market. despite member states' commitments to offer young people a new start, most of the 4.6 million unemployed young people in the first six months of unemployment receive neither a job offer nor an offer of education or training. moreover, young people who find employment often have uncertain contractual terms. the commission considers this to be a worrying situation and has recommended that member states improve the situation of young people, in particular through education and training measures. the commission believes that action should be taken in three areas in particular: first, social inclusion: social inclusion is a crucial element of sustainable development in europe. the commission will continue to promote active inclusion, based on providing people at the margins of the labour market with the possibility of integration into the labour market, programmes ensuring an adequate minimum income and access to quality social services; secondly, lifelong learning, because there is no doubt that education creates education and people who are educated and have higher qualifications also have better access to lifelong learning than people who would need it most, i.e. people with low qualifications or older people with outdated skills. in the context of the lisbon strategy, the commission has issued several recommendations to member states in the field of education and training, in particular with regard to early school leaving and raising the level of education achieved by europeans. i would point out that the european union's reference target is to reduce early school leaving to below 10%, but that this figure is currently 15.2% and in some countries it is even higher. we believe that reducing early school leaving is one of the main ways of improving young people's chances on the labour market. another recommendation made by the commission is to promote geographical mobility. we are in a situation where, alongside unemployment, there is a shortage of labour in some regions and sectors. young people should therefore be encouraged to take advantage of these job opportunities; union financial support through the european social fund is another option. in addition to policy coordination, the union shall support member states' efforts to modernise their labour markets. between 2007 and 2013, member states will receive a total of €72.6 billion to finance national labour market reforms. more than 90% of this amount will be a direct contribution to the achievement of the lisbon objectives. investment in human capital, which represents one third of the european social fund's budget, is the main priority for the period 2007-13. a further 30% of this amount will be earmarked for the social inclusion of disadvantaged groups. the following concrete results have already been achieved through the european social fund: each year, some 2 million people enter the labour market after benefiting from the support of one of the european social fund projects. in 2007, around 25% of the unemployed in the eu will participate in european social fund projects. around 1 million socially excluded or disadvantaged people benefit from the european social fund's project support each year. some 4 million people receive training through the european social fund each year in lifelong learning programmes. as i have already stressed, the commission is looking for other more effective ways of tackling the problem of youth unemployment. the commission is therefore currently finalising a draft communication on the integration of young people into education, employment and society, which is due to be adopted by the college in september this year. the commission's youth employment service working document will be annexed to this communication. as i have already said, ladies and gentlemen, the question of youth unemployment is of course primarily a matter for the member states, their employment policies, their education policies and so on, but the european union cannot and will not stand idly by.
member of the commission. these two points are of course extremely important and could be answered very broadly, but let me nevertheless deal with the answer very briefly. of course, as part of the active employment policy of the european social fund, we are focusing on opening up qualifications, and you have rightly emphasised that qualifications are not just purely intellectual but also in a number of craft and other activities. it is therefore very important that the commission is currently preparing, within the framework of the restructuring forum, a forum to address the labour market of the future, i.e. a labour market with jobs that can be considered as permanent or incoming in the long term, and part of our efforts will of course be to formulate the corresponding qualification requirements, the corresponding modules for obtaining qualifications and a method for monitoring this balance between the future of the labour market and qualifications in a flexible and persistent way. as regards labour mobility, there are again a number of sub-points and sub-pathways by which we would like to promote mobility. i think the most important is the objective that my colleague ján figel is working on, namely the draft recognition policy, i.e. recognition of qualifications not only in the fields in which qualifications are already recognised, but also in the qualifications of others, i.e. also in the qualifications of craft workers. i think if we move forward with this project, we'll make it much easier for young people to enter the job market.
vice-president of the commission. the conditions under which third-country nationals can be granted international protection like refugee subsidiary protection status in a member state have been harmonised at community level. in fact, the qualification directive 2004/83/ec imposes on the eu member states concerned the obligation to grant refugee status to third-country nationals who seek protection on the grounds of a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of political opinion. in this context, the concept of political opinion encompasses any opinion concerning matters on which the state, government or society is engaged, going beyond identification with a specific political party or recognised ideology. member states are therefore obliged by virtue of eu law to offer protection to journalists and writers who, as a result of exercising their freedom of expression, have in their countries of origin a well-founded fear of persecution in the form of a threat to their life, physical freedom or other serious violations of their human rights. the commission welcomes any initiatives by individual member states to raise the level of protection granted to writers and journalists persecuted as a result of restrictions on their freedom of expression.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i shall be glad to answer the honourable member. since the directive is in force, all member states are obliged to comply with it. one aspect on which more can probably be done is information and communication to the countries of origin: there is probably little awareness of the possibilities offered by european law to find protection when you are a journalist and you are at risk. as far as the communication programmes are concerned, all member states should know that the european commission is ready not only to co-finance them but also to promote them. so better knowledge for better application of a directive which exists in exactly the terms i have described to you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, we have even thought of programmes to make known the views of people who in their countries are called dissident writers, in order to promote the spread of liberal and democratic ideas. our ultimate goal is to get those ideas out there in the countries that these writers or these journalists come from. it is our duty to spread democratic values beyond the borders of europe, and i believe that it is right to do so also by using the voice of courageous writers and journalists, who must be protected in europe but whose ideas must also be known in the countries from which they have fled. so in principle i agree with that approach.
when we think of persecuted and threatened journalists, it is difficult not to mention the recent release of alan johnston in gaza, which was welcomed by us all. would the commission agree, however, that a careful balance has to be struck in ensuring that terrorist organisations, such as hamas, are not enhanced or rewarded for a role in delivering that which never should have happened, namely, the removal of the liberty of a brave journalist like alan johnston? would the commissioner care to comment on that?
this case really is an outrageous one. my colleague, david martin, was one of the first to raise this issue in the last parliament, before 2004. yet we are still here. the libyan government has to recognise that this has threatened to sour relations permanently between the eu and libya, which is a great pity given that libya has just come out of the cold. i welcome your proposal for a benghazi centre. i hope the decision tomorrow is the right one. if not, i hope that the high judicial authority will be able to make the right decision. but if not – and i understand you do not want a plan b now – will you come back to us with further proposals for action if we do not get the right decision in the last two opportunities we have?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, president-in-office, the programme that you have presented combines clear goals with ample ambition. success is not immanent, but liberals and democrats have high hopes of a european union double act under the two josés. indeed, you appear to compete for the laurels of economic liberalism. as britain’s newspaper the daily mirror might say, ‘it’s the only way, josé!’ who, if not you two, could convince europe’s governments of the beauty of lisbon and the importance of its agenda? put the ‘is on’ back into ‘lisbon’ – the need to consolidate public finances, the commitment to financial discipline and debt management, the drive to complete and strengthen the single market. yes, even in the face of populist opposition in your own parties. it is not just in asia that the free market has lifted millions out of poverty – it has done the same for 50 million people in the eu in the last 10 years alone. most importantly, there is a need for sustainable economic recovery in europe to be built on job creation rather than on rigging the rate of exchange to ratchet up export-driven growth. therefore, my group particularly welcomes your initiative to open the discussion on flexicurity. we have to modernise social protection and benefit systems to face the challenges of a global market. let us protect workers, not uncompetitive jobs. our social safety net should protect not failing businesses but rather those in them, helping them to find new employment opportunities. the only european social model that matters to me is the one that preserves our prosperity by preparing our people for the future. and, yes, if we talk about the future, let us not forget the fight against climate change. let us look at how we can merge the gothenburg and lisbon agendas and use innovation in green technologies to help us be more innovative, create more jobs and lead the world in setting the climate change agenda. president-in-office, you are right to place an emphasis on africa – discovered, exploited and then abandoned by europeans. the fact that you have called the first eu-africa summit in seven years says it all. it has been the forgotten continent for far too long. africa needs europe, and europe needs africa if we are to deal successfully with migration, disease and climate change. china offers money for natural resources and weapons for money. that is the road of 21st century economic colonialism and it is the wrong way forward for africa. but europe must avoid talk of the dimensions of empire. let us learn from the past and forge a new and generous partnership. in justice and home affairs, we appreciate the fact that your presidency will focus on a series of measures strengthening the area of justice in the european union. after the revealing comments by germany’s interior minister, mr schäuble, my group will be on the guard against the erosion of civil liberties that underpin our society. (applause)we want to see the framework decision on procedural safeguards agreed in the council as a necessary accompanying measure to the european arrest warrant. and we caution against a response to terrorism which changes the nature of our society by fettering the freedoms for which you fought in the carnation revolution. two weeks ago, this house applauded the council for agreement on a mandate for the igc, but last week we learned from some of your colleagues in the council that they were hollow words. well, that was rather an ephemeral victory. i believe i speak not only for my group but for many colleagues in this house when i urge that the package agreed at the june summit should not be unravelled. from a school on the sagres peninsula, your country gained world repute as a nation of navigators. as president-in-office, you will need those skills to navigate through the treacherous waters of council negotiations. we wish you good luck and fair winds. boa sorte! (applause)
mr president, coming from scotland, a smaller atlantic maritime nation, i warmly congratulate our portuguese colleagues and thank mr sócrates for his enthusiasm, his realism and his ambition today. i only wish my own country, scotland, could take its natural place as a constructive and enthusiastic partner member state, but we are on our way, for we do have much in common. we want to see realism; we want to see dynamism; we want to see reform; we want to see progress; and, in the reform treaty, you have an opportunity to deliver for all of us. my party decided, on balance, that we could not recommend the previous draft of the constitution to our voters, but that is in the past, and we view your efforts with a fair heart and an open and constructive attitude. we wish you all the best. the eu is far from perfect but what is right with it is to be saved and is to be promoted. if you can build on the successes and sweep away what does not work – like this building, perhaps! – i hope to congratulate you in december also.
mr sócrates, you are part of this great deception: the attempt to hoodwink the british, the french and the dutch into accepting a treaty without a referendum. the other day you said that this treaty was less federalist. i ask you: less federalist than what? you really could not make some of this stuff up. fortunately, there are some voices in the eu who are honest and say that we have the substance of the constitution and all we have done is to change the terminology. others say that we have 90%, or 99%, of what was there in the first place. whether we are playing the game that you are playing or whether we are being honest, we all know the truth, which is that if the british had a referendum on this, 70% or perhaps more would say ‘no’. i wonder whether it would not be better for everybody if the british just were not part of this european union. why do we not just get a quickie divorce? we can do it very quickly; let us keep the lawyers out; let us have a free trade agreement; let us have a swiss-style relationship. i think everybody would be a lot happier, most certainly we would be. while we are at it, i simply cannot bear listening to you and mr barroso blathering on about africa and what we have to do to help people there. a very good start would be for you to stop mr mugabe attending the summit in december: that would send a good message. however, i will give you a real challenge, a positive thing that you could do. yesterday mr barroso talked about the eu being an empire and, when it comes to africa, my goodness me it is! i urge you to stop the fisheries deals with west africa. stop your own fleet. stop the spanish fleet plundering western african resources, killing african fishermen. if you do that in your six-month presidency then you will have done something positive for africa. please act!
mr president, president-in-office, president of the commission, this presidency is embarked upon at an important time for the european union. i am delighted that my country and your country share the same patron saint, st george, who was well known for fighting dragons and dealing with difficult problems. i hope that this will be the case with this presidency also. i am delighted that you are giving such emphasis to the issues of africa. the plight of the continent and the fight against global poverty are matters which the british conservative party feels very strongly about. however, i must also press you, i think, to ensure that the eu-africa summit later this year takes place without the presence of robert mugabe. i and my colleagues, including geoffrey van orden, have been underlining this matter for some time because i think it would be intolerable for our union to welcome such a tyrant to europe at a time when the suffering of his people is clear and should be uppermost in our minds. as to the draft mandate for the igc, it may be very precise but it is not necessarily right. we believe very strongly that, whatever form this constitution is shown to be in, there ought to be a referendum, certainly in the united kingdom. and indeed we believe that the promise made by our outgoing – now former – prime minister, mr blair, to give the british people a referendum on this issue should be followed and taken on board by his successor, gordon brown. we have other serious concerns. there are serious concerns about our continuing commitment to free competition, about the legal position of the so-called british opt-out of the charter of fundamental rights and about the collapse of the third pillar, but i look forward to a positive debate during the igc on these matters. finally, i want to refer to the resolution on the igc today, which calls for the issue of parliament’s two seats to be included in the mandate. i believe this is the perfect opportunity to demonstrate that europe is listening to the people. the continuing vast expense of shuffling between brussels and strasbourg undermines the standing of our parliament and the matter must be resolved soon.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the socialist group welcomes the convening of the igc, accepts the mandate and supports the timetable. many people have commented that this mandate salvages some 90% of the content of the constitutional treaty, and this has given rise to much comment. but colleagues will also know that recent scientific research demonstrates that human beings and mice are genetically 90% identical. however, the 10% difference is rather important. and so here with this mandate, the 10% difference is rather important. the loss of the constitutional designation of the treaty, the failure to change the name of the high representative to foreign minister, the failure to mention in the treaty the supremacy of community law, the loss of the symbols and the numerous derogations and opt outs for particular member states mean that for those member states the percentage – be it 90 or whatever – is even lower. all these make it a very different treaty that is envisaged than the constitutional treaty. that will be a matter of regret for this house and for a large majority of the member states. nonetheless, those changes will make it possible, will make it easier to ratify the treaty in all 27 member states, and that is the crucial point that we have to recognise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, my group welcomes the prospect of a quick and efficient igc that clears up the ambiguity following the period of reflection, secures legal certainty and builds a strong consensus behind the reform treaty. of course, it is especially appropriate for parliament to seek, inside the igc, to protect what it stood to profit from in the 2004 treaty. but we should also be certain that the growing number and crowd of opt-outs and minimalistic footnotes do not contaminate the integrity of the corpus of european law and the jurisdiction of the courts. we will fight to prevent a political spillover from the uk protocol on the charter; a multi-tier council is one thing, but parliament cannot tolerate first- and second-class citizenship. we should fight the popular suspicion that the igc is nothing more than a grand exercise in the obscurantism designed to extricate certain states from pledges to have referenda, and i was very pleased that prime minister sócrates is determined that plebiscites should not be pitched to oppose parliaments. maximum transparency is desirable and parliament’s greater role, superior strength and more pluralistic presence inside the igc will assist to secure such transparency.
(ni). – mr president, we pretend we are on the side of the people but produce a report which conspicuously avoids support for popular ratification of this recast constitution. indeed, such is the determination to rush this report through that we abandon due process in this house to a degree that would make a despot blush! we demand of member states that they abide by the igc mandate but declare our unilateral intent to go beyond it by using the european flag and the anthem. we declare our determination immediately we get these constitutional changes through to demand more. this is the elephant trap of this agreement, because it permits self-amendment, which for most will mean never again having to consult the people about whose constitutional status we would make changes. (applause from the right)
mr president, it is a ludicrous state of affairs to commence voting at 12.40 on 48 pages of votes. you, sir, have been doing remarkably well in organising parliament so that we vote at proper times in order to deal with these large voting lists. we should have started at 11.00, not at 12.40. i urge you to revert to type and ensure we do not do this again. (applause)
mr president, i should like you to check that the corresponding part of amendment 64 is compatible with amendment 62, which was adopted.
mr president i have a brief comment concerning amendment 10. the initial amendment was apparently mistranslated into german to mean exactly the opposite of what the english said because the english text was ambiguous. so the purpose of this is to remove the ambiguity. i am sorry that there was not time to clear this with all political groups, but i hope that they will support it because it is not trying to change the text. it is merely trying to clarify and remove the ambiguity.
in writing. i voted for all the amendments to the calendar that reduced the amount of time that the european parliament spends in strasbourg. the city is a lovely one and its people wonderful. but we have to end this travelling circus that costs up to gbp 400 million a year for the people of europe and which simultaneously impedes the efficiency of the work of the union. this parliament needs a single working place on grounds of politics and economy. we must do whatever is necessary to achieve this.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues believe that the european parliament must have one permanent seat – in brussels. we have campaigned for many years to end the existence of two seats and the eur 200 million per year this costs the taxpayer and the millions of pounds it costs the british taxpayer. in addition, we are seriously concerned at the environmental impact the existence of two seats has in terms of carbon emissions. we have supported an amendment to the calendar for 2008 which sought to delete thursday sittings in strasbourg. this is not in any way an alternative to the principled position we hold which is to end strasbourg sessions, but recognition of the fact that the treaties currently demand that 12 sessions must be held in strasbourg. we call on the european council to include this issue in the mandate for the igc, the only forum where this matter can be resolved.
in writing. i am disappointed that this house rejected amendment 1 by mr alvaro and others that would have added to the mandate of the later governmental conference on the treaty revision the issue of a single seat in brussels for the european parliament. it is quite beyond me that 380 of my colleagues support the continuation of this ongoing farce we all endure. there are other issues with this report that would make it difficult for me to vote in favour. nevertheless, this failure alone to deal with the single seat makes it impossible for me to even consider voting in favour.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues have voted against this report as we fundamentally disagree with the draft mandate for the proposed intergovernmental conference. we believe that the text of the draft mandate for the igc as agreed at the european council in june 2007 is, in all but name, the european constitution which was rejected by the people of france and the netherlands in their referendums in 2005. further, we wish to make clear that since the united kingdom government firmly promised the british people a referendum on that european constitution, it has both a moral obligation and a democratic duty to submit any new treaty arising from the igc that transfers powers from britain to the european union.
in writing. i very much support the convening of the igc, however there were many elements contained within this report that go beyond the mandate agreed by the council and i could therefore not support it. i sincerely hope however the igc succeeds in agreeing a reform treaty.
in writing. i can support the general approach born out of compromises brought about by pes colleagues and others in the house. in particular, i am concerned that there are guarantees about universal service provision and its financing. in measuring the way that this will have impact in our communities it is vital that two things are addressed directly. firstly, that working conditions are maintained and, secondly, that rural and peripheral areas are successfully provided for as they are now. these are some of the challenging issues that must be taken into account for the report to be taken seriously as something that benefits all european citizens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which addresses misleading advertising and information of passengers. in particular, i welcome the fact that all air fares must now be published including all taxes, fees and charges added to the ticket price and known at the time of publication of the air fare. i believe that this report will greatly increase consumer rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report which focusses on employment security throughout a worker's life rather than protecting particular jobs. i believe it is important that, within the eu, it is easier to find a job and to move from one job to another.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, economic growth is higher, unemployment is down, government deficits are falling a little, but concerns are now being expressed that this growth may be threatened by the strong foreign value of the euro. while mr juncker does not share these concerns, mr sarkozy and others have been calling for active management of the exchange rate. mr mitchell’s report draws our attention to the rules that give member states the responsibility for exchange rate policy, and calls on eurozone finance ministers to coordinate their influence on the exchange rate with the european central bank. the report then says that this action should not undermine the ecb’s independence to use its interest rates to control inflation. we do not seem to understand how it works. the way to bring down the value of the euro is for the ecb to reduce interest rates. but then it would have to abandon its inflation target. in these days of free capital flows it is not possible simultaneously to control inflation and the exchange rate. there is another way, of course, and that is to impose exchange controls. maybe this is really what they are thinking. it would not be out of keeping with mr sarkozy’s remarks about defending french protectionism and it would also be disastrous for the market economies of the eurozone.
i thank the commissioner and colleagues across the house for the support they have expressed for alan johnston, whom we are all glad to see released and safe at home in my constituency in scotland. however, that is one bright spot amid a sea of pain, and we must recognise our own part in that failure. i agree with the commissioner that, at long last, there may be some scope for optimism. however, when i, mrs morgantini and others were in the west bank and gaza last year it was clear then that eu policy is a sticking plaster, not a cure. the quartet is discredited in the eyes of much of the arab world. it is certainly discredited in the eyes of many of the palestinians. the eu should step up to the plate and provide real leadership and clean hands. i echo the scepticism of colleagues on the appointment of tony blair as envoy. speaking for once as a british member, the idea that that deeply compromised individual can credibly represent peace to the middle east fills me with dread. this is important, because we only need to look at the bomb attempts in glasgow and london to see that the consequences – direct or indirect – of our continued failure in palestine will haunt all of us.
mr president, the palestinian question, and palestine’s relations with israel, not only split families, but political groups in this house and in other assemblies around the world – and, indeed, institutions. one of the dilemmas for today is those very institutions that we represent here, and our part in the quartet in recent years. some hope that the appointment of tony blair, with his very specific role in relation to the palestinian people, might revivify that process. i do not know. i think what is important is that the values that gave rise to the european union itself should continue to inspire people across the middle east, but especially in palestine and in israel. like others, i rejoice at the release of alan johnston. i am a patron of the bbc world service trust. he was reporting from gaza when elections were held that led to the election of abu mazen in january 2005, followed in january 2006 by the election of a hamas-led government in palestine. the dilemma for the democratic nations – what used to be called ‘the west’ – was whether or not to recognise that hamas government. well, we know what happened, and the consequences still face us today. i wonder whether the european union can genuinely feel satisfied that it has played an adequate role in this period. i am pleased that the european parliament is now discussing the setting-up of a working group in the committee on foreign affairs, something i first proposed two and a half years ago. i am pleased that we are hosting a united nations conference at the end of august, but i still think that there is work to be done, intensive work by the parliamentarians of europe, working together with the elected parliamentarians of the arab world – which includes some we might not normally want to do business with. we have to face things in a different way in the future.
mr president, it has been said that there are five intertwined crises in the middle east. we can see that iran has a hand in all of them. gaza may be controlled by hamas, but hamas is not its own master: there is a veto in tehran. perhaps, therefore, it is more accurate to say that there is just one conflict in the middle east, and that is between extremists and moderates. we have an obligation to encourage and support the moderates. there is a danger that some regard hamas as some sort of social service with attitude. this would be a profound error: hamas is essentially a terrorist organisation. its power comes from intimidation and murder and it wants to impose its own distorted view of islam on a frightened population. i remember only too well the plea made by the internationally renowned palestinian, dr hannan ashrawi, at the time of the legislative elections 18 months ago. she said: ‘we must defeat the forces of darkness’. the people of gaza cannot really express themselves freely. meanwhile, israel is under constant attack and, yesterday, mortar bombs were fired from gaza at the kerem shalom crossing, a route for humanitarian aid from egypt to gaza. let us not forget that, while we are delighted and relieved at the release of alan johnston, corporal shalit was abducted a year ago, and we know nothing of his situation. members of his family were in parliament yesterday. so what is to be retrieved from this confusing and dangerous mixture? for its part israel has acted with restraint: it has recognised the government of salam fayyad, it has released hundreds of palestinian prisoners, it is transferring some usd 400 million in tax receipts paid by palestinians, and it is actively engaged in talks with the leadership of the pa. however, it will take a third party – arab or possibly european – to make real progress. the arab peace initiative of 2002 still offers the most promising way ahead and i am sure israel recognises this. just as we must support the forces of moderation and oppose the terrorists, so moderate arab governments must be willing to engage more actively and flexibly in the peace process: politically, economically and financially. it is in our interests – and theirs – that they do so.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i have been a critic of pakistan’s government for some time. from the toleration of nuclear proliferation by a. q. kahn, to the appalling treatment of religious minorities. i have also been sceptical at times as to the real determination of president musharraf, ostensibly our ally in the war on terrorism, to really stamp out radical islamist jahadis and stop youngsters, including eu citizens, being educated in the hardline deobandi madrassas. we now witness the bloody storming of the red mosque, where armed islamists were holed up with women and children. musharraf stated the militants were linked to al-qa’ida. so why was this matter allowed to fester since january as the security forces ignored the illegal occupation of land, the stockpiling of weapons and the abduction of women into the mosque complex? was this in order to engineer a bloody showdown? or to demonstrate the risk posed by extremists and prove the president’s anti-terrorist stance to the west, which has been more critical recently, with claims now that the all-powerful pakistani military interservices intelligence agency has been secretly helping taliban forces regroup in the border areas with afghanistan? it is also alleged that abdul aziz, the cleric leading the red mosque militants, had family links to the isi. for sure this crisis is a welcome distraction for president musharraf, under pressure now for dismissing his chief justice, attempting to justify five more years in power and keen, of course, to retain the pervasive influence of the pakistani army. the eu should rightly fear instability in an islamic state with nuclear weapons, and i now call on president musharraf to allow two former civilian secular prime ministers to return from exile and campaign in democratic elections against dangerous extremists and help build a tolerant and democratic country that can survive president musharraf.
on behalf of the group pse. – this is an important and timely debate. it is interesting that there will be three uk speakers, but that reflects the communities we represent. we know that across europe many people are concerned about the situation in pakistan and the uncertainty that surrounds president musharraf at the moment – his future – and we recognise that is linked very much to the future of his country. i do not intend to be as critical as dr tannock, but the motion for a resolution we have put down is expressed in a spirit of concern, because many of us have visited the country – we have met the president both here and in pakistan – and we wish pakistan well. we recognise the very real challenges that pakistan faces, not least in the very hard task of facing terrorism on its own territory. we respect the international role they have played in the fight against global terrorism. we give them credit for what they have done already and we pledge support for future efforts. however, the fight against terrorism cannot be used as a smokescreen to cover malpractice or wrongdoing. the commissioner spoke about the serious incident at the red mosque, as indeed did dr tannock, who also referred to the suspension of chief justice chaudhry and what followed on from that. i want to pick up on the elections, which the commissioner and mr lobo antunes both spoke about. the council representative said that we support steps to sustainable democracy – and of course we do. i recognise and welcome the commissioner’s commitment to a subgroup on governance and human rights for pakistan. i want today to urge president musharraf to ensure that these forthcoming elections not only take place but that they do so in an environment that will be conducive to ensuring that a clean bill of health can be given to them by any international observer mission, whether it is one sent by the european union or anyone else. this is vital for the credibility of any president of pakistan, or any government or, indeed, any government anywhere. specifically, i hope that the preparations for those elections ensure that they are conducted properly, and that includes allowing more women to stand for election. as the commissioner said, the electoral roll must not just be above scrutiny, it must be so that people do not feel that they have been left out. we need a free and open press in an election, where journalists feel safe to say and write what they want. i hope that in the interim period, whilst the election is taking place, the interim government will be genuinely neutral. pakistan is a large country with a proud people and a far too troubled history. i am sure i speak for all in this parliament when i say that the european parliament stands ready to do all it can to support pakistan in difficult times to allow it to grow and support it as fully functioning and peaceful democracy.
on behalf of the alde group. – the unfolding and tragic events at the red mosque in islamabad show that pakistan faces a clear and present threat from extremist ideology. they are a danger to the majority of moderate pakistani people and to nato forces stationed in afghanistan. the knock-on effect that these events have had in peshawar, balochistan, waziristan and bajor illustrates the footholds that the extremists now have across many parts of the country. yet the popular condemnation by the majority of pakistanis of the violence of the militants shows that extremism remains a fringe minority activity in pakistan. it is this majority moderate core that the government must embrace if it is to develop a broad-based political consensus. the eu’s relationship with pakistan is based on a commitment to democracy, peace and stability, trade and development and respect for human rights. this year, the council and commission have taken significant steps towards strengthening that relationship and we must continue to exert our influence as a key donor in the region to improve the lives of the pakistani people. the eu must continue to support health and education projects in pakistan so that the poorest people will have a genuine alternative to the madrassas. we must insist that the government respect the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law and the human rights of the pakistani people as the country moves forward to democratic elections. we must condemn all attempts to stamp out free speech and media freedom and we must stand in solidarity with the entire legal profession of pakistan when we deplore the suspension of chief justice chaudhry. ultimately, the european union must send a clear message to the president that the transition to civilian rule through free and fair elections is ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. – i am deeply concerned that pakistan’s fragile democracy is in peril. the dismissal of the chief justice of pakistan and resulting media clampdown does not bode well for having free and fair elections. there are many reports of official and unofficial acts of intimidation against members of the legal community and abuse of the anti-terrorist act to persecute political opponents. i have been informed by pakistanis that moderate political parties, journalists and civil society are being marginalised, whilst the extremist groups are being empowered to have a greater influence over its society. i very much regret that recent unrest has seen the loss of civilian lives and would urge president musharraf to ensure that the pakistani authorities fully respect human rights. furthermore, i would request the president to abide by the assurances that he gave to the ep delegation during the december 2006 visit to pakistan, about the transition to civilian rule and to agreement on building up democratic institutions and most importantly the assurances he gave us on media freedom. i would like to call on the council and the commission to make a strong representation to pakistan on restoration of democracy and respect of human rights.
on behalf of the alde group . – madam president, the trips amendment is both overdue and ahead of its time. it is overdue in that, for a long time, there has been a need to give poorer countries assisted access to drugs. it is ahead of its time because the extension of patent regimes to cover drugs in india and other countries in 2005 has not yet bitten. it takes years for a drug to get from development through clinical trials and it is only after that that this amendment might come into play. but it could come into play earlier if the indian patent office is not upheld in its line of rejecting patents for minor modifications of older drugs. now the amendment alone cannot solve the problem that generic drugs still available now are not affordable, but it will establish in trips that production for export legitimately comes under compulsory licensing and so also loosens the constraint of the legitimate interests of the patent owner, at least as regards territory, in other articles.
madam president, the commission and council are right to remind us that the 2003 waiver was greeted in this house as a great breakthrough in terms of access to medicine, but i think we are right as a parliament to remind the other two institutions that four years later, not a single drug has been supplied to a single patient. as others have said, the reasons for this are complex. it is partly because of the expense of utilising the waiver, it is partly because of the complexity of the mechanism itself and it is partly because of economic pressure put on certain countries by other countries and by big pharmaceutical companies. the commission is right to say that we cannot go back and renegotiate this waiver. it was a complex deal that was struck and we are not asking for that. what we are saying is that if we are to give our assent to this waiver, we want the commission to commit itself to giving technical, financial and political support to developing countries in order to enable them to utilise the mechanism. the four points that commissioner rehn made were all very valid and welcome, but he has to go beyond those four points and make it clear that he will give the backing that the developing countries need to access medicines today, not in 10 or 20 years time.
in writing. – the right agreed in 2001 for developing countries to produce generic medicines was a welcome one. but, as is only too obvious, many developing countries have neither the technological capacity nor the finance to do this. the agreement of august 2003 to add an annex to the original wto agreement that allowed these countries to import generic drugs was thought to solve this problem. yet four years later, not a single developing country has proved able to do this. four years on, not a single patient has received a single drug. alongside agreeing to sign the annex we must ensure the necessary resources and will are available to transform what to date has proved to be mere rhetoric into reality.
in some member states the delivery of the rights set out in the european convention on human rights is poor, so we need a measure spelling out rights to information, legal aid, interpretation and so on. indeed, the council of europe has welcomed the framework decision, completely undermining claims – by, for example, the uk – that it would undermine the echr. i welcome what the presidency has said. president-in-office, do you think that expected changes in the treaty to move to qmv and codecision will help? will you, perhaps, try to find a way through for enhanced cooperation? will you try to promote something like a prüm treaty for rights – perhaps a member state initiative? how will you make sure, in practice, that we get this absolutely vital measure to match the european arrest warrant and other measures which have made prosecution easier, so that our citizens know that their rights are actually important in the eu?
the next item is the commission statement on democratic scrutiny under the development cooperation instrument
before i give the floor to mr van den berg, i note with some sorrow that, apparently, it will be his last speech in the chamber tonight before he moves on to other things. i am sure we all wish you well, mr van den berg, although we are sorry to lose you.
thank you for your contribution to the work of this house.
i have received one motion for resolutionsee minutes. to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 july 2007.
the next item is the commission statement on natural disasters.
on behalf of the pse group . – madam president, commissioner, i welcome this debate and the opportunity to draw to your attention some of the devastation which has affected parts of the north of england, yorkshire and the humber as a result of the floods which occurred at the end of june. i know many people have told me that saw this on television. but i want to bring home to the house here that that impact has not gone away. today’s estimates are that 2400 businesses have been affected across the region; tens of thousands of homes have been affected and there has been major damage to public infrastructure, railway lines, roads, electricity, water, telephones, schools as well as crops. in the worst-affected regions, even tonight there are still many families homeless, and a number of factories and local businesses as well as railway stations remain closed. you mentioned the solidarity fund, and potential reforms to it have been mentioned. i hope the british government is looking to make an assessment of the overall damage in the north of england, yorkshire and the humber, and i hope that the commission will look sympathetically at any bid for the solidarity fund which comes forward. also, on mobilising structural funds, i have been talking to people in the objective 1 secretariat and there is an opportunity to mobilise structural funds to help businesses in particular deal with the crisis. looking to the longer term, there has been a lot of debate about whether this was just freak weather or whether it is the impact of climate change. i very much welcome the commission’s green paper on adaptation to climate change. i think this is a very important piece of work and something we all need to make sure we get right so we do not have to come and debate natural disasters of this kind year upon year.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the next part-session.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by zsolt lászló becsey, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the community statistical programme 2008 to 2012 (com(2006)0687 - c6-0427/2006 - 2006/0229(cod)) (a6-0240/2007), and– the oral question to the commission on the timely transmission and verification of statistical data provided by member states by zsolt lászló becsey and alexander radwan, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats) and european democrats (o-0024/2007 - b6-0123/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 12 july 2007.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group i warmly welcome the kamiński report. ukraine, as well as being the eu’s immediate strategic neighbour, is our vital trading partner in energy matters. right now, it is in the middle of a constitutional crisis in terms of divisions of power between the president and parliament, and between the ukrainian-speaking western and central regions, mainly supporting president yushchenko and yulia tymoshenko, and the south and east, which are russian speaking and mainly support prime minister yanukovych. resolving this will be a test of the maturity of ukrainian democracy and a challenge to the enduring legacy of the orange revolution and the rule of law, but so far, to ukraine’s great credit, no violence has erupted. sadly, the constitutional court has failed, as a result of undue politicisation, to resolve the dispute over the presidential powers to dissolve the rada. the current cross-party agreement for fresh elections to the rada due for 30 september may clear the air, or at least confirm that all major players are essentially for the continuing unity of the nation and in favour of imminent wto membership, as well as a much deeper economic relationship with the european union. the kamiński report supports these objectives and goes further by keeping the possibility of eu membership open for the longer term. for now, the eu is rightly building on the 2005 enp action plan and following on from the recent visa facilitation and readmission agreement aiming to develop with ukraine a deep free-trade agreement, possibly in the form of an association agreement to replace the outdated pca post-soviet model. i now call on the eu to boost enpi financial assistance to ukraine, and on ukraine to redouble its efforts to combat corruption in public life, to strengthen judicial independence, whilst demonstrating at the same time its firm commitment to getting closer to the european union by working towards approximating its laws with the european union’s acquis communautaire.
mr president, on a point of order, i am sure that sir robert will be delighted to do that if you can ensure that we will start on time!
mr president, i am sure that if whoever was in the chair started on time, members would soon realise that they had to be here on time! (applause)
mr president, many of us were very envious of your skill in extricating yourself from the chair at lunchtime yesterday. when we stayed here voting, you went away for lunch. are you going to do the same today? (laughter)
mr president, i apologise for this, but colleagues will recognise that this situation is changing daily and the oral amendment is not quite the same as that listed on some people’s sheets so i will read it out: ‘expresses its solidarity with the people of pakistan who are victims of the violence perpetrated by the armed extremists; is deeply concerned for the safety of the 1800 or more people in the red mosque, some of whom were held as hostages; recognises the challenges the siege posed to the government of pakistan; expresses its grave concern about the still unknown number of victims and supports the efforts to bring those responsible to justice’.
in writing. i voted for this resolution on the situation in darfur. in particular, i support the focus on closer monitoring of the arms embargo against khartoum and enforcement of a no-fly zone over the region. i support the call for an in-depth investigation into unpaid african union mission soldiers.
in writing. while i can applaud the environmental aspects and proposals for practical forms of cooperation in the piecyk report 'towards a future maritime policy', i however cannot support the calls for many proposals that this report contains, such as the setting up of an 'eu coastguard service'. i fear the excessive regulation that would result from the report would fall foul of the subsidiarity principle and i have decided to reserve our position at this time.
in writing. i warmly support the piecyk report on maritime policy and congratulate the rapporteur on his inclusive approach. the report is vitally important in trying to highlight a new approach to protecting our marine environment. this approach is urgently required to protect environmentally sensitive areas against ship-to-ship oil transfer. currently the firth of forth, in my home country of scotland, faces a threat from a ship-to-ship oil transfer proposal. i hope that the habitats directive will be properly implemented in order to protect sea birds, sea mammals and other species. however, the need for a comprehensive approach to our marine environment with clear and transparent lines of accountability is essential to protecting our marine environment for future generations.
in writing. while there are many useful observations in the report, i reject any idea that the eu should claim authority over what should properly be british territorial waters or that military activities should be incorporated into an eu maritime policy. furthermore, the common fisheries policy has been a disaster for our fishing industry and for marine life, and its powers should be repatriated to the nations.
in writing. i voted for this resolution which aims to tackle today's biggest killer in europe: cardiovascular disease. prevention strategies, public awareness campaigns and the promotion of healthy lifestyles were all recommended in the resolution, and i give my support to this.
in writing. with cardiovascular disease accounting for more than 40% of all deaths in the eu, it is necessary that we address the issue urgently at both national and eu level. member states themselves can do much in terms of improving risk surveillance, producing prevention guidelines, etc. however, this is clearly an area where the eu can add value by promoting the exchange of information between member states. i welcome the call in the resolution for the establishment of an eu-wide database to monitor cardiovascular disease prevalence, mortality, morbidity and risk factors. such a database has the potential to do much to facilitate better prevention at member state level.
in writing. the british conservative party is firmly against the entry of the uk into the eurozone, and in common with normal practice we have abstained on the final vote of the rosati report. we are, nevertheless, vigilant of the need for sound monetary policy in the eu trading bloc and we are opposed, in particular, to efforts to subject the application of monetary policy to political ends.
in writing. the british conservative party is firmly against the entry of the uk into the eurozone, and, in common with normal practice, we have abstained on the final vote of the mitchell report. we are nevertheless vigilant as regards the need for sound monetary policy in the eu trading bloc and we are opposed in particular to efforts to subject the application of monetary policy to political ends.
in writing. i voted for this resolution, which expressed condemnation for the hamas takeover of gaza. in particular i support the emphasis on the fact that the current crisis should not be used as an excuse to halt efforts to reach a lasting peace.
in writing. i voted for this resolution which asked that more be done to allow developing countries and ldcs to access medicines. in particular i believe the council should support the developing countries which use the flexibilities enshrined in the trips agreement. further, i support the request in the resolution that the commission and the member states should provide financial support for local production of pharmaceuticals in developing countries.
in writing. i voted for this report on looking at ukrainian eu membership. i support the call for a resolution to the current crisis, for the government to tackle problems of corruption and to further integrate the country's energy markets with the union.
author. – mr president, i was one of those politicians who supported the iraq war back in 2003 in the belief that saddam hussein posed a serious long-term risk to regional stability, but also because of the horrendous brutality of his baathist regime. i believed this would be replaced by democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law. but i, like many others, sadly underestimated the ferocity of the subsequent insurgency and the serious lack of peace planning, post-invasion, by our us allies, in particular their disastrous dismantling of the iraqi army as a de-baathification measure, which unleashed disgruntled sunni officers to lend their expertise to the insurgency. there was also a failure to secure the jordanian and syrian borders against jihadi extremists flocking in to have a bash at the allies, not to mention that saddam opened his jails before his fall, which added organised crime to this lethal cocktail, and always with the fingers of iran meddling on the side of the shias in what has now become virtually a civil war. curiously, immediately after the invasion, there was little in the way of internally displaced persons or refugees compared to the previous exodus of kurds in the saddam days. paradoxically, the kurdish flow has now stopped, as this is one of the few remaining peaceful areas of the country. sadly, in the last two years, huge numbers of iraqis – perhaps over two million – have left, particularly the long-suffering, persecuted christian assyrian minorities who have been squeezed on all sides by islamists, who accuse them of collaborating with the crusaders, and by the kurds, who want their lands. canon andrew white, who ran iraq’s only anglican church, left baghdad yesterday amid fears for his life and safety after trying to secure the release of five kidnapped britons. but the eu must now do more to alleviate the crisis by boosting financial aid to the surrounding arab states, which have received the bulk of the refugees, in particular jordan and syria, and they have been particularly good at taking in the assyrians. the eu member states must also accept, within reason, more refugees on a temporary basis.
author. – mr president, i welcome the resolution and, like others, i am really concerned about the truly tragic situation that we see in iraq and on its borders at the moment. this is a people that have already suffered war, ethnic cleansing, a brutal dictatorship, an illegal invasion and communal violence, and are now seeing borders closing both externally and internally, seeing little chance of resettlement, and seeing a very mixed reception should any of them make it to the european union. we should not be surprised when war produces refugees – it always does – and indeed, as has already been said, some of our member states have a very grave responsibility for that situation. i would agree, for once, with mr tannock, certainly on the question of the lack of post-war planning. i particularly welcome, in this resolution, the statement that there should be no forced return of iraqi refugees, or of those who have had their claims turned down that are currently living in the european union, and at present we certainly need to find a status for such people, rather than leaving them destitute in our own member states, as is happening in some places. i would say that there is no part of iraq which is currently safe. even in kurdistan we see turkish troops at the moment massing on the borders there, undermining the possibility of return to destroyed villages and undermining efforts to increase economic stability in that area. indeed, some of those that have been returned were sent back wearing flak jackets and helmets, which, to me, says it is not exactly a safe area. we also had a report from human rights watch only last week saying that, despite the efforts of authorities in kurdistan, partisan security forces continue the practice of kidnap and torture, so there is no real safe area in iraq. we know that we have to increase our support to the countries dealing with refugees on the border, and to the unhcr, because we know what happens when you ignore the plight of refugees at the border. we only have to look at our experience when we more or less turned our back on two million afghan refugees on the pakistani border and left them without adequate support – that vacuum is filled, and we do not always like the result. i welcome the call, in the resolution, for the commission to explain to parliament’s committee on budgets in more detail exactly how we are helping in iraq and how we are aiming to support those surrounding countries. but, equally, i think we should be looking at our own resettlement policies to at least offer assistance to some of those who, once again, are finding their lives absolutely in turmoil.
mr president, i wish to draw attention to an innovation in european marine conservation. on saturday, scotland became the first country in europe to implement a voluntary scheme of real-time closures of fishing grounds, with the aim of safeguarding cod stocks. that scheme, which was developed as a joint initiative between the new scottish government and the fishing industry, will hopefully provide a template for future marine conservation projects. i understand that the scottish government has engaged with its counterparts in denmark and norway with a view to learning from this particular project. the common fisheries policy has been nothing but a disaster for scotland to date, and i firmly believe that the future of fisheries management lies not in central control from brussels but in direct cooperation between fishing nations. the scottish government and the industry are to be commended for taking such an innovative approach on this matter. i hope, in the mean time, that when it comes to the december council their voluntary efforts will be taken into account, recognised and rewarded.
mr president, how much does membership of the european union cost britain? last week i published my second annual report on that very subject. by calculating the direct and indirect costs, i established that eu membership costs britain at least gbp 60.1 billion per annum gross, or gbp 50.6 billion per annum net. that equates to over gbp 1 000 gross, or gbp 843 net, for every man, woman and child in the uk. put another way, that is gbp 114 000 per minute gross or gbp 96 000 per minute net. the majority of the british people realise that this is a colossal waste of money. it is no wonder that uk prime minister gordon brown is refusing to give the british people a referendum on the new reform treaty. if he thinks that the eu is value for money, he should accept my challenge and commission an independent cost-benefit analysis to prove it. that would be the prudent thing to do.
mr president, i should like to draw the attention of the house to the tragic fire at the penhallow hotel on the seafront of newquay, cornwall, in my constituency. three people died in the fire: one because he jumped from a high window, and two – one of whom is rumoured to have been disabled – died in their rooms. these people would probably not have died if they had lived elsewhere in the european union. in hungary, for example, a hotel of this height would have been required to have had sprinklers fitted. in the last four years, 60 people in europe have died in fires in hotels where no sprinklers were fitted; no one in europe has died in a fire in a hotel where sprinklers have been fitted. i ask the commission to take this fact into account and to bring forward proposals in terms of fire safety legislation for hotels across the union.
mr president, i rise with great regret because i have considerable admiration and respect for you. however, i want to protest at the fact that last week, in the parliament building in brussels, there was a conference allowed, which was ostensibly dedicated to peace in the middle east but which in fact transpired to be a one-sided, prejudiced, biased, unrepresentative attack on the state of israel. i am afraid it was in sharp contrast to what is actually happening in the region, where very patient negotiations between the prime minister of israel and the president of the palestinian authority are moving forward under american auspices. this conference, as you know, was not a conference of the european parliament. it took place in the parliament building and it allowed the organisers to gain credit and our approval for what they said. you were thanked personally for facilitating that conference. i think we should reflect carefully before we do that again. the european parliament building is not a meeting house for every group that wants to have a protest at this or that problem throughout the world. it certainly should not be allowed to be hijacked by those extremists who will never recognise that peace in the middle east, as elsewhere, will only come by negotiation and not by the bullet and the bomb.
mr president, most of the speakers in this debate have understandably addressed the fires in greece, the magnitude of which, and given their freshness in our memories, is of a scale that even now we find it difficult to comprehend. but let us not forget that this debate – and certainly the resolution we are adopting tomorrow – also addresses other natural disasters that have occurred over the summer period. we all know that their causes are, in the long run, partly linked. i draw attention in particular to the floods that affected many parts of england, including my own constituency of yorkshire and the humber. i would urge the commission and all those involved in processing the requests that have now been made for assistance from the european union budget – and for the solidarity that our union can display – to make sure that in all these cases those funds are mobilised as rapidly as possible without undue bureaucratic impediment. as long as the decision is taken quickly and people know that the money is on its way, it is possible to plan even before the money actually arrives. it is also very important, symbolically and politically, to make this gesture of solidarity with all the regions that have suffered this summer. as new events crowd upon our agenda and these events begin to fade in the minds of those who have not directly suffered, it is important to keep these issues very high on the agenda and to process what needs to be processed as rapidly as possible.
mr president, it is very clear in the motion for a resolution that we have had a europe of excessive weather conditions, whether we consider the heat or the floods. we have heard a great deal. obviously i, alongside my other colleagues, express my deepest sympathy for those who have suffered from the fires in greece. equally there are those, as mr corbett mentioned, who have suffered from floods, which happens to be the case in my constituency. i am surprised the commissioner did not raise this. after all, we are talking about natural catastrophes and that also includes floods. we have had amongst the wettest months of june and july on record, in my country. as a result, the association of british insurers reckons damages could be up to eur 5 billion. ten lives have been lost, countless homes have been destroyed, countless businesses dislocated and infrastructure has been destroyed. therefore, it would be extremely important that floods are also included in any action which the commission wishes to propose. commissioner, local people are asking questions such as: can the eu give grants which might be matched by national funding to prevent further flooding by building flood defences? secondly, should the eu review its directive which prevents the spoil from dredging rivers and streams being left on the banks of these rivers? when we look at the estimates in the future, no one can doubt that these conditions will probably get worse. climatologists expect the national rainfall average to increase by something like 20%, which can fall in extreme torrential downpours when you get a month’s rain within a day. in this particular circumstance, it would be very satisfying for those who might be listening to the debates in my constituency, mr corbett’s constituency or across the uk, that you can assure them that the floods will be included, as we stated in paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution from our group, and that the aid will be given as soon and as expeditiously as possible. as general rapporteur of the 2007 budget, i can assure you that i will be keeping a very close eye to make sure that the funds are properly and efficiently spent.
in writing – whilst i appreciate the scale of devastation caused by the greek forests fires and regret the lives lost within this incident, i must stress that this is indeed a resolution on natural disasters. therefore i am disappointed that the commissioner has not made any reference to the floods which occurred in the uk. they caused widespread damage across the country including in my region, the west midlands. in worcestershire over 5 000 homes and business were affected and more than 2 000 people were temporarily displaced. the impact on infrastructure has been significant, with many roads waterlogged for weeks afterwards and some that have totally disappeared. agriculture was also severely affected and the impact of this is not confined to the loss of produce but also loss of crops, grazing land and next year’s yield. therefore i would urge the commission to ensure that the uk’s application for funding assistance from the solidarity fund is also brought forward to help alleviate some of the immediate consequences of the floods. it is imperative that the systems enabling access to funds are streamlined and that any proposed eu rapid reaction body to assist member states also covers extreme flooding.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. – madam president, i speak specifically on mrs lévai’s report. i congratulate her and the committee on legal affairs for its excellence and thank them for incorporating so much of both the spirit and letter of our opinion into it. although the ultimate responsibility for conformity with community legislation belongs to member states, the actual meeting of the requirements is largely tasked to other bodies, such as regional and local authorities and specialised agencies. this may mean ensuring their own compliance and/or that of others with regulations and directives alike. furthermore, where certain directives are concerned, the constitutional regions have a role to play in the transposition process. the committee on regional development wishes accordingly to stress the importance of widespread consultation at all stages of the legislative process, including the preparation of impact assessments to allow national, regional and local variations to be taken into account. we stress, too, the importance of disseminating information. we call in particular for advance guidance on the transposition of directives and for the provision of implementation guidelines where regulations are concerned. the vade mecum on state aid produced by dg competition is a model of the latter. we call also for the use in legislation of clear and comprehensible language and for the provision of correlation tables in the transposition of directives, so that the risk of gold-plating is diminished. with these and the other measures advocated in the report – indeed, in all four reports – we believe that we should do much to achieve better regulation in the eu.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i wish to begin by making three statements to set the context of this debate. firstly, we must not forget that one person’s red tape is another person’s vital piece of legislation. secondly, we should not forget, as commissioner verheugen has said in the past, that 50% of the administrative burden relating to eu legislation is added by member states. finally, the most important thing is that the european union is itself a simplification process, because by having one set of rules instead of 27 we have cut business costs enormously in comparison to what life was like before many european union laws were passed. having said that, legislation has to be clear, easy to understand and to enforce, and adaptable to changing circumstances. that has not always been the case in the past, and sometimes one wondered whether the overall effort of producing and enforcing a piece of legislation did not outweigh in some ways the benefits to be derived from it. that is why i would support what the commission has been trying to do in its drive for better regulation and simplification, and in particular the establishment of an impact assessment board. it is important that all the institutions realise their role in this. it is all very well for parliament or the council to pontificate about better regulation, so long as, when it comes to amendments, we ourselves look at the impact of those amendments. parliament also has a responsibility to look at existing legislation and analyse it in depth to see whether it has had the effect it wanted. we tend to agonise for months over this or that amendment, but often put no effort into finding out whether the legislation has had its desired effect. i would hope therefore that we, as a parliament, might step up our own efforts to participate in this process.
madam president, this joint debate encompasses four reports supposedly compiled to outline better regulation in the eu. that is surely a contradiction in terms! despite the many words written and spoken on this topic, the crux of this issue has been entirely overlooked. mr doorn’s report best sums up the blinkered stance taken towards this notion of better regulation. after all, that report states that the commission’s action programme to reduce administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 ‘cannot [...] be equated to a deregulation, nor lead to a change in the policy objectives and level of ambition contained in community legislation’. therefore, not one single report considers the possibility that less regulation – or, even better, no legislation – is what is required. this concept will not be grasped by this talking shop simply because, if this logic were pursued, then euroland would be forced to admit what we have known for many years, which is that the eu is bad news for business.
mr president, as we debate better regulation, we should first recall the scale of the problem. no one imagines you can run a modern economy without regulation but, equally, excessive regulation can be hugely damaging, and the commission’s own figures prove it. in an interview with the financial times last year, commission vice-president verheugen said that he had made a new estimate of the annual cost of regulation to the eu economies, and that it amounted to an extraordinary eur 600 billion! that is around 5.5% of the eu’s gdp. but what about the admitted trade benefits of the single market? here again we can turn to the commission’s figures. the commission has estimated the trade benefits at eur 160 billion a year. in other words, the cost of eu regulation exceeds the benefits of the single market by more than three times. the eu’s regulatory system is making us all poorer and damaging our competitiveness in the face of globalisation. my fear is that all the talk of better regulation is coded language for ‘more of the same’. we do not need better regulation, we need less regulation. i have a practical proposal: let us agree to pass no new legislation in the next parliamentary term. instead, let us unleash the full power of the eu institutions on the task of deregulation. let us do the impact assessments, let us consult with industry and then let us dismantle the legislation which is holding us back.
thank you, mr helmer. as far as i am aware, when i got up this morning i was still female!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i did not think i was going to get to make this speech, i thought i would have to send it to you later, but i very much wanted to participate on behalf of my group. clearly, these are four very important reports that we have been discussing on better law-making. although it is rare, i have to say that i have some sympathy with our colleagues from the right of the house when they say that four reports on better law-making is a bit of a blockbuster, is it not? could we not perhaps have had one clear, simple report? i would like to concentrate my remarks on the issue of soft law and mr medina ortega’s report. soft law is a worry. it can be a very useful process to use soft law but it can also lead to fuzziness, unclarity and difficulties. mr medina ortega tries to be very clear in his report and i applaud that, but there will always be a wish amongst legislators to use, as it were, alternative regulatory methods other than black letter law. we have to admit that the state cannot do everything, but if we admit that, we also have to be very clear about the dangers of using soft law. first of all, soft law, as many of my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs have already said, has a propensity to bypass the legislator, to bypass parliament, to bypass democracy – and that is entirely unacceptable. we have to be aware of this danger and make sure that it does not happen. we have seen one very clear example with a very important project to do with european contract law, which absolutely should be discussed and discussed politically, but because of the way in which it was dealt with it came before us as a soft law instrument. there is also a further difficulty when we use soft or alternative methods to do with justice and access to justice. if we use alternative methods – we often talk about alternative dispute resolution systems at european level – these, again, are not backed by a state structure. a constituent of mine recently returned from a holiday in another eu country. he had lost out on car rental and was forced to use an alternative system, and the car hire company would not participate. that is when soft systems not backed by black letter law fail our citizens and do not deliver justice. if we want an eu that delivers justice both in the law we make and the way it is accessible through the courts, we have to be very careful about soft law and make sure that it is still backed in some way by the state.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, may i start by saying that i agree substantially with the comments from my colleague, mr andersson, on the opposite side of the house, but i would ask that this would not be regarded as a precedent for future occasions. it is worth recording that there was substantial support for this resolution in committee. we, as a group, are not tabling any amendments to this resolution and i hope that colleagues from all political parties and all nationalities will support something that is worthy of support, which is the principle that the eu is about people and about providing more opportunities for more people, and eures has a particular role to play in fulfilling this concept. however, i have two subsidiary questions which the commissioner could either answer in his follow-up remarks or by letter. they are two small points, but hopefully not insignificant. one concerns the actual use of the portal. if you key in ‘job mobility in europe’ you go straight to the eures portal, which is a very good portal and easy to navigate. however, in order to get there you must have the key works ‘job mobility’. if you simply key in ‘jobs in europe’, you get a whole list of other portals, such as eurojobs, jobpilot, topjobs, careers in europe, etc. they may be very worthy, but the key is to connect into eures. therefore, my question is: can anything more be done to make certain that the eures portal is more widely available to those individuals who do not necessarily go through job search centres, but just want to access the net themselves. my second point is that i see that one of the aspects of eures – which i also applaud – is the subportal about life-long learning and there is a portal within that called ploteus. i was intrigued to hear about ploteus because this, for the benefit of colleagues who may, like me, have been ignorant until today, is the portal on learning opportunities throughout space. wow, this is really a big endeavour, not just in europe but throughout space! i was looking at this because, whilst a lot of the mobility issues are to do with giving opportunities to our friends and colleagues in eastern and central europe to move west, i also believe more attention should be paid to opportunities from the west to move to eastern and central europe. one of the blockages – and i speak clearly as an englishman – is language learning and adaptability to languages, and anything that the ploteus project can do to encourage language learning is, and i hope the commissioner will agree, a very important part of job mobility. what i am saying in both these points about ploteus and access to the net is: by all means think about opportunities in space, but bring this portal down to earth so that it connects with real people on more occasions.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, eures has tremendous potential, but much of that potential has yet to be realised. it still has a number of limitations. our question says that the portal should become a one-stop-shop for workers’ geographic and occupational mobility, but we should be honest in accepting that it has a long way to go before it could become such a thing. it should, however, be possible to build such a one-stop-shop in this advanced electronic age. workers planning a move across the eu in pursuit of work need access to detailed and localised knowledge to give them the confidence to move with their families – detailed information right down to the level, for example, of schools to be found in a particular locality, the performance of those schools, student numbers and vacancies. the same applies to healthcare, housing and a host of other issues. the portal includes information under these headings, but it is of a very general nature and gives only a brief national snapshot. it might seem like a huge task to build detailed and localised information into the portal, but that is not necessarily the case. a lot of this detailed information already exists on the websites of local authorities, health authorities, local education authorities and government departments. web links to these sites can be embedded in the portal to take users requiring more detailed information to those sites. increasingly, information being made available at local level is also held in a range of languages. in my own area, for example, we have everything from information on how to register to vote to finding accommodation available in polish and a range of other languages. finally, that information is often held in a range of languages of third countries, which ties in with the point addressed by the commissioner. inward migration from third countries cannot solve the difficulties demographic change poses for the eu, but it can help. i have therefore been pleased to hear what he said about the plans to equip eures to play an important part in that process.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, europe comprises a widely diverse geography, terrain and climate, giving rise to a wide variety of lifestyles and economies. in particular, there has always been a variety of working practices, and labour laws have developed differently. different people work in different ways. variety is the spice of life. you tamper with this at your peril, for it is at the heart of full employment and of labour laws. the employment committee is properly known as the employment and social affairs committee, and surely the greatest social benefit of all both for the individual and for society is for people to have jobs. in april 2005, germany had 10% unemployment, while the uk figure was 4.5%, but then the uk has taken less of the eu’s labour laws. many eastern european countries have high unemployment rates. they have made progress, they have improved somewhat, but the last thing they want is to exchange the soviet command economy run by the unelected commissars for the centralised rulings of the unelected eu commissioners. europe does not need the eu to impose a common set of labour laws on all. a straitjacket like that can only result in rising unemployment, leading to the kind of social unrest we have seen before. i hope none of us wants to see that again.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, it gives me great pleasure to welcome mr toubon’s report this morning, not just on behalf of my group, as coordinator, but also on behalf of my colleague, our vice-chairman mrs thyssen, who sadly is not able to be with us this morning because she has had to rush back to belgium, where her parents are not at all well. i welcome this report on behalf of all the members of our group. one of the most important aspects of mr toubon’s excellent work is the way that he has taken a very all-embracing and very comprehensive view of the single market, as he identified in his speech. in a real sense, the single market touches the lives of every citizen in the european union. the problem is, that single market and its success and its future development are far too often taken for granted. as mr toubon said, it is absolutely right to issue a strong call to all of us and particularly to the commission in its work on a new strategy to come up with some radical, new ideas and particularly to raise the whole political profile of the single market and its importance to all of us. it needs the member states and the prime ministers at their summit in march, when they will look at this document, really to take advantage of that. the second point – and i am pleased that you reinforced this, commissioner – is the whole global dimension. it is absolutely clear that a fully functioning single market is a massive competitive advantage for europe in the global economy. it is the responsibility of all of us, all colleagues, to maintain that decisive competitive advantage on behalf of all our citizens. we are only going to achieve that by clear, far-sighted advocacy of the benefits and of the policies to keep moving the single market forward on behalf of all our citizens, as is done so well in this report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mr toubon concedes that ‘the citizens of all member states are having their doubts about the internal market and the other common policies’. he allows that the eu has not succeeded in overcoming a crisis of confidence. then he refers to the very document – now known as the ‘reform treaty’ – which has precipitated this crisis, by saying patronisingly that involving national parliaments will help them better understand the advantages of a single market. these poor benighted parliaments, by the way, are only the democratically elected sovereign legislators of 27 european nations, unlike this absurd consultative assembly which does not and cannot represent anyone but the commission and its associated elites. with that, this report launches into a plan to undermine national responsibility for universal services by changing the definition of universal services and including health services, to take control of intellectual property rights, which we all know will include patents on software, to adjust business taxation without representation, to set up a sort of king canute’s throne on an isotherm in order to grab power and money through carbon trading. as for small companies, we all know that the eu, its economic partners and the world trade organisation will continue to crush them. mr toubon, a crisis of confidence? oh yes, oh yes!
mr president, i am delighted to see that most of our group’s contribution to the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs has been incorporated in mr toubon’s excellent report. the realisation of a full single market is essential to europe’s economic success. more specifically, the various legislative measures adopted recently in the wholesale financial services area have gone a long way towards establishing a single european market in this area, with high regulatory standards and trickle-down benefits for the customer. in several cases these are becoming global standards, and the next stage is to ensure that the regulation governing this area is properly implemented and evenly enforced across the european union. we will, of course, resist further unnecessary regulation. yet there are many cultural, traditional, legal and tax barriers that still inhibit the single market in financial services at the retail level. therefore we look forward to reviewing the commission’s white papers on retail financial services and mortgage credit to see how improvements can be achieved with the least possible intrusiveness. i would like to mention the lamfalussy process, because so far it has helped much with adapting the basic legislation in financial services to the real world of market operators and regulators. the process is still at the learning stage, but a large amount of legislation has been handled and early indications are positive. although most of the economic committee’s amendments are in mr toubon’s excellent report, i am sorry that the ones relating to the lamfalussy process were not incorporated. one area that is the responsibility of the economic committee and still impedes the functioning of the single market is the tax system. whilst fully recognising the unanimity rule in this sensitive area and the sovereign right of member states to set their own tax rates, the current vat and excise duty systems clearly prevent full realisation of the single market and of its benefits for consumers and businesses. we, therefore, urge the commission to come forward with practical proposals for facilitating eu citizens’ full rights to the free movement of goods, in particular concerning the tax regimes for internet and cross-border shopping.
mr president, as chairwoman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection i would like to congratulate mr toubon, particularly on the way he has worked to achieve a consensus among all the groups for a set of recommendations on the review of the internal market, which i trust the commission will take on board as well as today’s debate. i want to stress some of the proposals which i believe are key in engaging citizens in the progress and development of the internal market and in boosting confidence in particular. more involvement of national parliaments to better reflect the diverse views of member states and their citizens is a very important proposal. equally important is the inclusion of social and environmental dimensions of the internal market, and of course the internal market needs to continue to deliver more choice, better quality and competitive prices for our consumers and small businesses. reducing administrative burdens and boosting innovation, while protecting our intellectual property, will enable us to compete in the global arena. consumer confidence in the internal market can only work when citizens are able to see the benefits and enjoy the rights and opportunities they have as members of the eu. therefore, i hope that we will go beyond simply protecting our consumers to making sure we have remedies for them when things go wrong. in that regard, i would like to raise the very important work that is being done by the solvit network and the european consumer centres. these informal, practical networks provide quick solutions to very complex problems in what is perceived by our citizens as a bureaucratic environment. one of the reasons why they do not want to shop across the border is because they do not trust that they will have a remedy when something goes wrong. the commission should therefore strengthen these networks as an essential element of the review process. i think, commissioner, we share the same objectives: to achieve an internal market that is relevant and responsive to all – you said that in your introductory comments – and i think that we want now to work together with you to ensure that our citizens continue to achieve the level of access to the internal market, the benefits and indeed the protection with remedies and redress.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i welcome the commissioner’s remarks, particularly as commitment to better regulation involves clear team work of regulators and those people affected working together to develop a piece of legislation. i also welcome that he is clear that there have to be economic objectives and that has to reflect market needs. looking through the commission’s own summary of this consultation on company law, i notice that less than half the respondents call for the adoption of a european private company statute. that seems to be slightly at odds with some of the statements we have heard so far, so perhaps he could clarify exactly what those responses were. i also notice that most people wanted a codification and consolidation of existing company law, rather than anything going further. clearly, he has got quite a difficult balancing act. what i want to know is: to what extent have we identified so far a clear need for legislation at a european level, as opposed to a domestic one? i suspect that, in some cases, the pressure is coming from those who have very complex domestic laws and who want a european law to simplify matters. however, the problem is we have a european law on top of domestic laws and we often find it makes life much more complicated. surely, the whole object of this exercise is simplification and clarification.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when i last spoke on this issue in february, i drew to the commissioner’s attention the fact that i did not like all the recommendations in parliament’s report, such as the size of the capital, because i felt that would make any statute along those lines discriminatory in favour of larger companies. therefore, i welcome the fact that in the commissioner’s latest consultation, he is urging responses by smes. however, we all need to be proactive in seeking those, with emphasis on the small rather than the medium. i shall certainly be doing this within my region and i am pleased to say that there are other bodies within the uk doing likewise, so i welcome efforts to establish the relevance to small companies. this is particularly the case when it is information from smaller companies that is frequently lacking, while, at the same time, we readily acknowledge that it is just those companies that do not have the means to deal with the different laws and regulations and, therefore, in theory at least it is those who we want to benefit most from the statute. as i see it, this house has made some proposals that would render the statute unlikely to find favour with those very smaller companies, so there is a problem. my message is to keep it simple otherwise, for small companies at least, it would just be a fig leaf for no change.
colleagues, as you can see, two new information screens have been installed in the chamber. they are larger and offer many more possibilities than the screens which have been replaced. this is the first step in an ongoing project to improve the quality and the presentation of information concerning proceedings in the plenary, both for members and the public. in particular, after each roll-call vote, a graphic overview of the chamber will be briefly displayed, showing voting patterns across the house. this new feature, familiar in many national parliaments, merely reflects information which is in any case published in detail in the ‘results of votes’ annex to the minutes of the proceedings. however, further to a decision by parliament’s bureau yesterday evening, the conference of presidents, in their sublime wisdom, will decide on thursday if the group chairs wish to make use of this aspect of the system on a permanent basis in the future. in the mean time, political groups were consulted this morning and agreed to permit the use of this graphic display on an experimental basis at our voting session this morning.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
thank you, mrs frassoni, i am sure you have a good point, but you were late for assembly, so see the headmaster, please! (laughter)
mr president, i do not know what rule this is under, but my voting list has another report to be voted on – ayala sender. do we reconvene at 12.30 p.m.?
the debate has not taken place and the vote will be tomorrow. thank you for raising that point.
mr president, i have to say that in my own group’s voting list this resolution on natural disasters is described as forest fires, but the natural disasters in europe over the summer were actually wider than that and i wish to raise the issue in my own region of the worst floods in over a century. a third of a million people were without drinking water for more than a week. 4 000 homes were severely damaged and tens of thousands forced to evacuate at a total cost of eur 150 million. i am hoping that my government will apply for assistance from the european commission to enable the county and the towns in my region and elsewhere in britain to actually get some recompense for the costs that are inevitably going to fall on very narrow sections of the population.
the title of the motion for a resolution is ‘natural disasters’ and it has been corrected.
mr president, i just want to echo what mr ford said about the natural disasters in the uk. people may not be aware, but 40 000 residential properties were flooded. nine hundred schools have been affected. mainline railway lines are still closed. agricultural land has been affected, including 75% of the pea crop in the uk. in my own region of yorkshire and the humber, many thousands of people were affected and many are still unable to return to their properties. what we want from the commission, given that the uk government has now applied for solidarity funding, is a rapid response to that application, but at the same time we need all the eu institutions to make climate change a top priority. when we have a major piece of legislation coming through this house in the next few months, i hope that colleagues will bear in mind the natural disasters of this summer and make sure that we make our contribution to tackling the long-term issue of climate change, and i hope there will be no more of these natural disasters on the scale we have seen this summer.
mr president, i too want to support the application for funds from the european commission. my region, the south-east of england region, suffered equally badly, especially in oxfordshire and parts of berkshire, and my colleague mr hannan and i have made an application to the european commission for emergency funds. the reason i am standing up now is to ask the commission to expedite the funding of relief and the restoration to normality of my region, the south-east of england.
in writing. while supporting and voting for the joint motion for a resolution on natural disasters, british conservatives have misgivings about the creation of a "european force" (paragraph 9) since we believe that both prevention and rapid reaction capabilities should be concentrated on the resources of the member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution on the summer’s natural disasters and particularly welcome the existence of the eu’s solidarity fund, which is available to help member states deal with the aftermath of such disasters. it is a useful expression of solidarity that genuinely helps eu countries and citizens in moments of great need.
in writing. i voted for this report on better regulation in the eu. i strongly support regulation being done in a least-cost and most efficient way, to help the development of a more competitive european economy and deliver better social, environmental and economic outcomes at the same time.
in writing. british conservatives believe it is unfortunate that paragraph three appears vague in seeming to support "any" initiative in the enforcement of community law. british conservatives support the enforcement of community law but wish to analyse and consider any initiative proposed by the commission. otherwise, we believe that this report is an excellent exposition.
in writing. i voted for this report on how eu law- and regulation-making can best be done. more effective and streamlined regulatory and legal frameworks will deliver eu-wide improvements in social and economic outcomes, generate more jobs and improve our quality of life.
in writing. i voted for this resolution on better regulation. as a socialist, i have no difficulty in putting further burdens on industry to protect health and safety, the environment or raise the minimum wage. yet i want value for money. the end of vehicle life directive that came into force some years ago was estimated by the british cabinet office to have cost the economy gbp 400 million (eur 590 million) while providing environmental and social benefits at a level of gbp 100 million (eur 150 million) per annum. if these figures are anything like accurate, this directive was a political and environmental failure. we want costs to industry (and society) where there is a large multiplier as to benefits with costs of gbp 100 million providing eur 500 million in benefits. implementing the recommendations for in future cost benefit analysis of proposed legislation will do exactly that.
in writing. british conservatives support the broad thrust of the medina ortega report, which sets clear boundaries on the promotion and use of community law. concerning paragraph 18, we wish to make it clear that conservatives do not support closer european integration but share the view that there is a current mistrust relating to the eu institutions which these proposals may help to alleviate.
in writing. british conservatives have been at the forefront of the campaign to create a fully functioning and effective single market. we welcome the toubon report and its emphatic support for continued action in making the single market dynamic, outward-looking and flexible, while at the same time ensuring that it delivers real benefits for citizens. in that context, british conservatives have argued that tax policy must remain under the complete control of eu member states, and that 'one size fits all' policies at eu level threaten the economic dynamism and global competitiveness that are so critical to europe's future. we have therefore voted against calls for a common consolidated corporate tax base.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report on the single market review which the commission is working on. in particular i welcome the focus on improving regulation throughout the union, and the focus on providing legal certainty for services of general interest.
in writing. i wish to explain that i cannot support paragraph 32 of the report, which calls for broad tax harmonisation, or the harmonisation of corporate taxes, nor recital o, which criticises these member states that guard their prerogatives in regard to tax issues. member states must be free to determine their own taxation policy as part of national fiscal policy. in regard to paragraph 40, part 2, i will vote in favour of this because i have concerns that on a number of issues member states use eu legislation to ‘gold plate’ their own national laws, and then blame the eu for any subsequent criticism that may come their way. i will also vote for paragraph 16, part 2, which states insufficient attention has been given to nuclear energy as a tool with which to tackle climate change in a balanced way and would hope that as a result a discussion could start based on facts and not on fears with regard to the role that nuclear energy can bring to climate change as part of a well balanced energy policy.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, on behalf of my group i would like to thank the rapporteur, not only for his report but also for his inclusiveness in bringing together parliament, the council and the various political factions on this important issue. members will be aware that current community law in this area resides primarily in four directives that deal with the transportation of dangerous goods. the rid directive and the adr directive deal with rail and road respectively, with the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways covered by the annexes to these two directives. the proposed new directive now extends the scope of community law to inland waterways and we need to support such a move. some people may think that the rapporteur has not gone far enough in challenging the scope of the directive and there are others, mainly from industry, who think the directive too proscriptive and that it goes too far. the rapporteur has, frankly, got the balance right and surely the important aspect of all of this is that we would establish a single system of regulation for the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways, with standards laid down and with everybody, including member states, knowing their responsibilities. this report does give us added value, as explained by our rapporteur. it will enhance safety and therefore, i believe, and my group believes, deserves our full support.
mr president, i wholeheartedly echo the comments of my group colleague, mrs lichtenberger. we welcome this package as a step in the right direction, albeit with some reservations. our amendments seek to strengthen the package, particularly in relation to training in how to deal with accidents and the right of individuals to know what is being transported. i personally would like to go further still. i would like to include military and civil nuclear materials in the same framework. scotland, sadly, plays host to military nuclear facilities and civil nuclear sites and sees regular transports. the sunday herald newspaper recently revealed that 67 nuclear safety incidents relating to transport have taken place in scotland over the last seven years. so there is clear room for improvement, and i believe that the eu can act where the uk government will fail to. in the meantime, however, i welcome any steps in the direction of giving people greater rights to know what they are sharing the roads and waterways of europe with, and that they are safe. this report helps to do that, so we welcome it.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am so long in this parliament that i recall the occasion when commissioner de palacio first proposed the single european sky and the term ‘functional airspace blocks’ first entered eu vocabulary. well, after a painful birth, progress was made in 2004 with the regulation that enacted these airspace blocks, but i have to say that since then progress has been painfully slow, particularly in regard to the extension of those airspace blocks and specifically as regards lower airspace. i appreciate, commissioner, that it was the commission’s intention to work with member states and no doubt some member states have proved to be less willing to pursue this policy at the pace that we would like or, indeed, had envisaged, but surely the time is now right to find the accelerator pedal and for the commission now to come forward with a directive as soon as possible. since 2004, no new airspace blocks have been created and, as we have heard from previous speakers, the cost of that in our failure to create a single european sky is estimated to be at eur 1 billion. in addition, the existing legislation is in need of updating and the travelling public are still faced on a daily basis with air traffic delays, due to the antiquated attitudes of member states and what appears to be inactivity by the commission. patience is running out, and action is needed urgently. failure to act is not an option, which is why my group will support the oral question placed before parliament by mr costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism. commissioner, we are all growing older and we would like to see the single european sky in our lifetime.
the debate is now closed. written statement (rule 142)
the next item is question time (b6-0138/2007). the following questions are addressed to the commissionpart onequestion no 31 by silvia ciornei (h-0591/07) subject: forced labour in europe trafficking in people for purposes of exploitative forced labour has been on the rise in recent years in the eu. the victims, whether european citizens or immigrants, are suffering under new forms of slavery. what action does the commission intend to take to put an end to this phenomenon? since such trafficking is facilitated by member states' failure to ensure employers' compliance with the legislation on labour and workers' rights, what measures will the commission take to tackle this problem?
question no 32 by manuel medina ortega (h-0518/07) subject: action against international crime and the european court of justice the development of the european union has taken place on the basis of applying legislation, but the recent concern to act against international crime has led to the adoption of decisions under the third pillar, i.e. on the basis of intergovernmental cooperation, without them being submitted as they should to scrutiny by the european court of justice. does the commission believe it is possible to strengthen the juridical scrutiny of third-pillar actions, in the interests of greater legal certainty in the union?
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensitive subject. on the one hand i believe that the member states must be held accountable and i believe that the first responsibility is to agree in october next, during the portuguese presidency, on the proposal that the intergovernmental conference has received from the european council, a very clear mandate that includes the new powers of the court of justice. it is clear that this will allow us to make a very great leap forward, precisely in the most delicate measures, precisely in the most sensitive areas, those of the current third pillar, we will finally have the jurisdiction of the court. we will finally have that chance of a full assessment by the court of justice. i would remind you that in some cases the member states are reluctant even to follow the court's guidance, when the court of justice has told us that in some matters the instrument of criminal law can also be a european instrument. he said that about pollution, for example, that it's a sensitive issue. some member states still reject the agreement, which unfortunately must be unanimous and is only a consequence of a court decision; and yet they continue to refuse. it is clear that the only way to solve this problem is for the portuguese presidency to achieve the great success in october of agreeing and making that qualitative leap forward which you have mentioned and which i fully share.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this general objective does not only concern the eastern european countries, but that it is a general objective to encourage a strong, intensive and continuous fight against corruption. the fight against corruption cannot be stopped, for example, when a country becomes a member of the european union. we have worked with many candidate countries which have become member countries of the european union. these countries have achieved great things, and our interest now, for example, is to work with those who are not candidates, but are simply our neighbours: the european union is also a major partner in the western balkans, with important partners such as ukraine, with whom we have an important partnership. i believe that our interest is always to help these countries to eradicate corruption and corruption comes from a tangle of business and politics. my answer to your question is certainly yes. the european union is interested, and i believe that this is in our interest, but i would also say in the interest of the citizens of those countries, because those who suffer from political corruption see their rights denied every day. we owe this to europe and to the people of those countries.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can say that we have already achieved very important results. if each of you wants to compare the statistics for the year 2006 with the statistics for the first eight months of the year 2007, between january and the end of august, you can see from the official statistics a reduction in the arrival of illegal immigrants in the central mediterranean up to 40% less than in 2006 and for the canary islands it comes to over 60% less in 2007 than in 2006. this shows that frontex is beginning to achieve important results. in a few days, this week, the second frontex mission will be launched, which will be called nautilus ii, in the central mediterranean, but i have also proposed a third frontex mission in the western mediterranean between the balearic islands, spain, morocco and sardinia. these are operations that require more cooperation in terms of equipment, ships, helicopters and aircraft. member states are working together more and more every day because they are seeing the results. the second is the need to strengthen the frontex staff units, as you probably already know: frontex currently has fewer than 90 staff to coordinate operations across the entire external border area. it's obviously a record of effectiveness if you think about these early results. we are counting on the support of this parliament to help frontex financially and with the professional skills it already has, but which are obviously not yet sufficient.
question no 33 by mairead mcguinness (h-0541/07) subject: role of eu research in relation to european food policy given the conflicting views in the eu with regard to genetically modified (gm) foods, could the commission outline its view in relation to the role that research has to play in this particular area. could the commission state whether, from a scientific point of view, it is possible for any eu member state to declare itself a 'gm-free zone'? if so, would such a designation be consistent with the relevant eu legislation in this area and how would it be possible to authenticate such a designation in relation to livestock products? does the commission's research suggest that it would be beneficial for the eu to adopt 'gm-free' status, and if so what would be the potential consequences?
member of the commission. i should like to thank the honourable member, mrs mcguinness, for the question. firstly, i wish to reply to your question on gmo research in general. in the past the commission funded research projects on genetically modified food in the fifth framework programme and also in the sixth framework programme, with several projects that contribute to shedding light on the safety assessments of genetically modified foods. research projects were also funded on the issue of coexistence between gmo and conventional crops, which also addressed traceability measures. these projects will ultimately contribute to reducing costs and to ensuring informed customer choices in line with community legislation. this year, in the first call for proposals in the 7th framework programme, the commission called for the submission of proposals on a topic for research on assessment of short- and long-term effects of gmos on human and animal health, with the aim of supporting the development of improving techniques for post-market monitoring and for analysing their possible limitations. while evaluations have been finished, the selection process of proposals for funding is still going on. moreover, a complementary study has been launched by the commission in dg environment dealing with the long-term effects of genetically modified crops on health, biodiversity and the environment. the key objective of this study will be to prioritise the potential risks of the main crop trade combinations cultivated worldwide by collecting and analysing information from peer-reviewed literature and from the relevant organisations, both within and outside the european union. with the necessary expertise in research and cultivation of gm crops, the results are expected next spring. in the future, commission-funded research could include tools for safety assessment, risk/benefit assessments, including risk communication and perception, detection methods, ways to ensure traceability and coexistence of genetically modified and conventional organisms. on the second part of your question on the coexistence issue, i would like to add the following. it should be noted that authorised gmos can be freely traded and used within the eu under the conditions of the authorisation consent provided. the legislative framework for the authorisation of gmos for placing on the market and for deliberate release into the environment in the eu does not provide the possibility to establish zones where the cultivation or placing on the market of gmos is generally prohibited. a general ban would contradict community legislation, in particular directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release into the environment of gmos. indeed, only gmos that have been scientifically evaluated as safe for the environment and animal and human health are authorised to be placed on the market. a specific ban on a product must be scientifically justified according to article 23 of this directive, the so-called safeguard clause article. community research into coexistence is studying appropriate measures to segregate authorised gm crops from conventional and organic crops in a feasible and practical way. the research results indicate that sufficient segregation is feasible for the major crops studied so far – maize and sugar beet. however, with increasing commercial cultivation and genetically modified crops in the eu and imports of genetically modified food and feed, adventitious presence through gene flow and admixture becomes unavoidable. on your question about the possibility to authenticate a gm-free designation in relation to livestock products, i would like to draw your attention to the statement of the european food safety authority paper published recently on 20 july 2007, where efsa noted that no technique is currently available to enable a valid and reliable tracing of animal products like meat, milk or eggs, when the animals have been fed a diet incorporating gm plants or, to put it another way, dna fragments or proteins from gm plants have not been detected in edible products from farm animals using the existing available techniques. to add something from the area of my colleagues, the commission continues to assess the coexistent measures notified by member states with respect to their compliance with community legislation. the council asked the commission to develop jointly with the member states guidelines for crop-specific co-existence measures at technical level. the commission is currently setting up a european co-existence bureau which will conduct this technical work jointly with national experts and stakeholders. the work is planned to start by the end of 2007. the first crop to be addressed will be maize. as for the further steps towards harmonisation, the commission intends to sum up the developments in the member states regarding the development of the regulatory regimes and practical experience with gm-crop multi-cultivation in a report scheduled for the year 2008. this will be the basis for the decision about future steps to take on this issue. finally, concerning the last part of the question concerning potential consequences, as regards the gm-free status, i would like to add the following. farmers are free to decide amongst themselves not to cultivate gmo or to create, on a voluntary basis, zones where gm crops are not cultivated. these zones can be established only under the voluntary and unanimous agreement of all farmers concerned in the respective locations, while allowing for the possibility for any farmer to withdraw and cultivate authorised gmos if he or she so wishes. the regions or farmers which wish not to cultivate gmos or to adopt a gm-free status, can certainly benefit from the research findings from the research framework programmes. to date, the results from our research projects do not indicate any reasons why a gm-free status would be beneficial for public health or for the environment. as regards other issues related to your questions, as for the economic implications on voluntary refraining from gm-crops cultivation, they depend on numerous factors such as prices for gm or non-gm crops, agronomic differences between gm and non-gm crops, differences in yield, seed costs and so on. local factors, pest pressure, climatic conditions, structure of agriculture of production and so on and regulatory conditions to ensure the coexistence of gm crops with conventional and organic production. the economic impact is likely to vary between regions and member states. such differences are also reflected in the differences between the uptake rates of gm crop cultivation in different european regions. the eu livestock production is highly dependent on the import of animal feed derived from soya beans, maize and other crops. most of the imports of maize and soya bean-derived foodstuffs are labelled as gm. certified non-gm soya bean meal is currently only available for a small market segment. given the increasing share of gm soya bean production worldwide this could be expanded, but of course at higher cost.
thank you, commissioner. i am grateful for your response, but it was rather lengthy, and i think i must comment on that – it was nearly nine minutes.
member of the commission. i will tell you frankly that it is a bit difficult for me to answer. of course, they will have to follow the existing community legislation. that would be the straightforward answer. if the question was connected to research and development, it would be easier for me, but i think the answer is quite straightforward: it has to be in line with the existing community legislation.
is it not the case that the commission’s dilatory approach to approving gm derivatives is helping to inflate eu livestock feed prices? for example, the excessive delay in approving use of the corn by-product hercules is severely damaging the competitiveness of our grain trade sector, yet ga 21, a gm product from argentina, is approved in the eu for human consumption, but not for animal feed. is it not time to rationalise and bring some sense to this situation and cut adrift some of the contrived political correctness that is driving it?
member of the commission. i would just like to stress that, from my point of view, we clearly take great care to take all possible steps to understand the gm or non-gm situation as much as possible. decisions made in the commission are always based on existing knowledge. we never ignore this and try to stick to this approach. policy implications, as you mentioned, have never been the subject of our attention.
i too would like to join mrs mcguinness in thanking the commissioner for an excellent and interesting response. i think it will be a very useful precedential document for us to study, because it seems to me that he robustly supports the scientific justification for the use of gm crops in europe where they are scientifically approved and authorised. he mentioned the safeguard clause. when is the commission going to base all its decisions on the scientific research that his department is executing and to counter the public opinion that militates against the use of gms, that is disadvantageous for our farming community and indeed for the cost of food, and is negative for the economy of europe?
thank you commissioner. i did not mean to be too harsh but we have to strike a balance between detail and time, which is difficult. part two
question no 34 by brian crowley (h-0548/07) subject: the operation of the eu budget can the european commission make a statement as to how it believes that procedures for agreeing how the eu budget is spent annually can be simplified and streamlined in future?
question no 35 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0521/07) subject: planning of subject disciplines and areas of learning under the 'education and training 2010' programme having regard to the aim of establishing a sound basis for cooperation and support in the education sector, in particular through the 'education and training 2010' programme, in order to promote a strategy of lifelong learning, will the commission say what position is occupied in the overall scheme by subject disciplines and areas of learning which are not directly related to the labour market, such as ancient greek, latin, history, archaeology and linguistics? how will european citizens be persuaded of the value of continuing to teach and learn subjects which have no strictly practical application, in particular classical languages and literature, and historical studies?
question no 36 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0522/07) subject: education drop-out rates according to the official statistics published by eurostat for 2006, the education drop-out rate among young europeans aged between 18 and 24 is 15,3%. in 14 member states, however, that indicator exceeds the european average. the highest education drop-out rates are in malta (41%), portugal (39,2%), spain (29,9%), iceland (26,3%), italy (20,8%), latvia (19%) and romania (19%). the european union has proposed to raise the employment rate to 70% by 2020 through the lisbon strategy. against the backdrop of the increase in labour productivity, however, the workforce requires ever more training. what measures does the european commission envisage taking to reduce the education drop-out rate?
member of the commission. we are free people, free societies, and it is an invitation to be reasonable in this freedom. i said that investment into human potential is the best. i am not against investing in modern infrastructure, in transport and in the environment, which is important. but even in the communication i mentioned in my introductory answer, we say – and this is based on scientific evidence – that investment in pre-school attainment of children from a poor socioeconomic background is the most efficient way of dealing with their worsened conditions for cohesion. the rate of return into education at pre-school age, for example, is higher than the rate of return from investing the same amounts in the longer term in financial institutions. so, that said, this is an invitation for ministers and members to behave like reasonable fathers and mothers and to think about future generations, not just about tomorrow, the immediate future or polls in the next elections. i think that this kind of generational, long-term approach is highly needed and very efficient even in financial terms, but sometimes we just behave according to short-term, even narrow-minded approaches. europe is full of examples; it is a mosaic, and some member states show examples that are now a world reference. look at the pisa study, and i invite you to look at the next study, which will be published by the oecd in september. we will see where we are after three years and some european countries are amongst the best performers in the world. we need such performers, and we need more of them.
question no 37 by esko seppänen (h-0528/07) subject: eitas the community institutions move to set up the european institute of technology they have been negotiating about the funding for the project. the intention is to obtain money from the private sector as well. how can the commission ensure that the eit does not suffer the same fate as the galileo programme, to which the private sector has made no financial contribution?
member of the commission. madam president, this is the question on eit private sector funding. we believe that public and private partnerships are instrumental in driving information in the knowledge-based economy. if not, we do not succeed. the private sector provides not only additional financial resources but, more importantly, can bring about changes in the strategic direction of innovation. so i would say it is not so much about money itself, but the way we cooperate, how we put together partners and interests. many eu countries have taken action to facilitate structural relations between the public and private sector with a view to promoting knowledge transfers between universities and industry. in this context, the activities of the eit and, notably, knowledge and innovation communities will be implemented through innovative public-private structure partnerships and financed through a variety of public-private sources. the precise arrangements for their funding cannot be determined in advance and will clearly evolve over time, but the objective is to maximise the share of contributions from the private sector. the community contribution, which was agreed at eur 308 million for the next financial perspective, is intended to act as a catalyst to draw forth resources from the private sector. the commission has been particularly attentive in seeking to facilitate and attract private sector participation in the financing of the eit and knowledge innovation communities (kics). for example, a key criterion for the selection of the kics will be their capacity to ensure long-term and sustainable financing, including a substantial contribution from the private sector. it will be important for the governing board to identify fields for potential kics that will attract the interest of a wide range of participants, including those in the private sector. moreover, the eit will be empowered to establish an eit foundation with the specific objective of mobilising and leveraging resources from both individual and corporate donors.
member of the commission. i would say it would be boring if there were only united states companies interested in dialogue and cooperation and possible investment. there are many more, and there are many more also from europe. many of these companies, whether european, us or international, already invest a lot in europe. the eit should create even more incentives and friendly conditions for innovation in europe. i would not eliminate interest from outside, but i would encourage the commitment of parliament, council and commission to finding the definite answer and agreeing on the full proposal in order to mobilise european investment in international cooperation. but all positive constructive signals, both inside and outside, are really welcome.
commissioner, do i detect from your answer to mr seppänen just now that you actually have indications of major interest from companies wishing to invest in the eit? because, if not, if you do not achieve substantial or sufficient funds from the private sector, will you refrain from attacking the eu budget and will you take it as a lesson that perhaps there is not that much interest in funding the eit? but i would like your assurance that perhaps you have these sincere expressions of interest.
questions 38 and 39 will receive written answers. question no 41 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0532/07) subject: absolute prohibition of conversion of fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration in greek public sector it is six years since directive 1999/70/ec oj l 175, 10.7.1999, p. 43. entered into force in 2001 and greece has not yet complied therewith. despite final judgments in favour of workers on fixed-term contracts, the greek supreme court has ruled, with reference to the greek constitution and setting aside previous case-law, that it is absolutely prohibited to convert fixed-term employment contracts into contracts of indefinite duration in the greek public sector. this ruling is totally contrary to the spirit and the letter of directive 1999/70/ec and to the judgment of the court of justice (case c-212/04), which stresses that directive 1999/70/ec 'precludes the application of national legislation which, in the public sector alone, prohibits absolutely the conversion into an employment contract of indefinite duration of a succession of fixed-term contracts that, in fact, have been intended to cover ‘fixed and permanent needs’ of the employer and must therefore be regarded as constituting an abuse.' what are the commission's views on the evident refusal of greece to implement directive 1999/70/ec? will it initiate proceedings against greece before the court of justice?
question no 42 by sarah ludford (h-0534/07) subject: equal opportunities is the commission satisfied, in european year of equal opportunities, that real progress is being made in ‘new’ as well as ‘old’ member states towards equality of people of different ethnicity and sexual orientation? what specific initiatives is the commission taking in the light of continued homophobic actions in certain eu as well as non-eu european states, such as the ban of a gay pride march in vilnius and the attempted break-up of an equalities demonstration in romania? what steps is the commission taking to ensure that eu institutions and states live up to their commitments on racial non-discrimination and protection of minorities, especially as regards roma people, in the face of some disturbing electoral success for extremist and intolerant parties?
although it is regrettable that 14 member states have had to have reasoned opinions, i am, at least, delighted that the commission is taking forceful infringement proceedings, because at the moment we have had a complete gap between the letter of the legislation and what is actually happening. commissioner špidla has mentioned some of the problems relating to the equality truck denied access to vilnius. apparently, half of lithuanian mps think that homosexuality is a perversion. you have real problems in the public and governmental sector. last week, the fundamental rights agency said that many member states were failing to properly enforce race discrimination legislation, so i hope that toughness goes on because we really need it. will you take account in the infringement proceedings of the various pronouncements and the tolerance of extremism by ministers and public officials?
we now have a series of five questions relating to persons with disabilities. i understand that the questioners were possibly expecting a block answer. i would not want to deprive anyone of an individual answer, but if you wish to deal with the questions together, commissioner, i would be happy for you to do so. first, however, i should like to take some guidance from one of the questioners before we proceed.
i am happy to do that. i am happy to do whatever the commissioner feels comfortable with to make sure that members all get an answer to what they have asked, but i am also clear that the questions are linked and that we would otherwise risk going around in circles. but i am happy with whatever the commissioner feels he can best deliver to us.
question no 43 by richard howitt (h-0560/07) subject: backing independent living with action will the european commission join me in welcoming people with severe and multiple disabilities who form part of the european network for independent living (enil) to strasbourg this week? in response to parliament’s resolution (p6_ta(2006)0527) on the commission’s biennial report on disability, what progress has the commission made in promoting the concept of ‘independent living’ for disabled people, including the right to retain funding for ‘personal assistance’ when moving between eu member states for employment, education or residence? will the commission bring forward a europe-wide policy on personal assistance? question no 44 by evangelia tzampazi (h-0562/07) subject: promotion of independent living for persons with disabilities de-institutionalisation and greater autonomy are among the priorities of the european union disability strategy. what progress has the commission made to date as regards the recommendations of the study drawn up on the de-institutionalisation of persons with disabilities? does it agree that an increasing number of persons with disabilities are being institutionalised? what further measures does it intend to take to tackle this challenge? question no 45 by proinsias de rossa (h-0569/07) subject: rights of people with a disability welcoming the commission's commitment to a 'human rights' approach to disability since its 1996 communication, and acknowledging the presence in strasbourg of the european network for independent living, does the commission accept that the human rights of people with a disability are abused in the european union as well as across the rest of the world? which further steps does the commission plan to take to address such abuses in the eu? question no 46 by grazyna staniszewska (h-0570/07) subject: mainstreaming for disabled people welcoming the commission's support for the principle of mainstreaming for disabled people, on how many occasions has the inter-service group organised by dg employment and social affairs met during 2007, and which directorates-general of the commission have not been present at these meetings? in connection with this week's visit to strasbourg by the european network for independent living, and welcoming the commission's commitment to 'ring fence' a fixed percentage of its overseas development assistance to health, education and social services, which steps is the commission making to make sure community development projects for disabled people benefit from these funds? question no 47 by kathy sinnott (h-0589/07) subject: representation of disabled people could the european commission describe which arrangements are in place to guarantee representation of disabled people and organisations of disabled people in eu social inclusion strategies? in line with the principle endorsed by the commission of ‘nothing about us without us’, what further steps does the commission plan in this regard?
madam president, i should like to thank the commissioner for his flexibility. a number of us who are active in the disability intergroup of parliament have chosen to table these questions to mark the presence in strasbourg of some 200 people with severe and multiple disabilities, who are living in institutions throughout europe and are part of what is called the european network on independent living. i know they will be very proud that this parliament is addressing their concerns and needs in this question time. i wonder if the commissioner could join me and if you, madam president, could join me in welcoming their representatives to the chamber. i wonder if, commissioner, you could confirm that the european network on independent living, as a user-led organisation run for and by disabled people, represents a very important interest group for disabled people in europe and that you would join me in hoping that they could benefit from the support for coordination of disability organisations europe-wide currently benefiting organisations such as the european blind union and the european union of the deaf in the future. secondly and finally, commissioner, you said some very good words, which i thank you for, about independent living and community care for disabled people. the point in my question about a european strategy for personal assistance, enabling professional workers who are managed by and employed by disabled people to meet their care needs, is a very important objective of this freedom ride of the european network on independent living, and i hope you will commit yourself to advancing their cause in this respect.
thank you, commissioner, and thank you for the manner in which we have been able to conduct these last questions. i think that has been helpful and, i hope, satisfactory. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers, apart from question 58, which has been withdrawn, and question 73, which is inadmissible (see annex). that concludes question time.
mr president, i very much welcome this report and the compromise position that came from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, with the sole exception of the clause on labelling, which we will try to put right in the vote tomorrow. i start from the belief that alcohol can be good for you in regular and limited quantities, particularly at the years of discretion which you and i have reached. it is good for people as we approach maturity. however, it can be bad for us, and that is what this report is about: it is about the binge drinking, the under-age drinking and the drink-driving; it is about the consequences of alcohol consumption in terms of the deaths of 195 000 people in europe from accidents, violence, liver disease, lung disease, breast cancer, mental disorders, addiction, cardiovascular, foetal and reproductive problems and so forth and so on. it is the third-biggest cause of early death. that is why we need a sensible drinking policy; that is why we urge the commissioner to stick to that sensible message that he began with and why we would suggest that he does not go down the road of trying to harmonise criminal law, not least because you cannot harmonise the enforcement of criminal law, and we know that in drink-driving that is a major problem between member states. equally, it is a mistake to try to harmonise labelling. by all means, let us see what france does and let us learn from the lessons that it comes up with. however, our message tonight is: let us have a sensible policy for sensible drinking, recognising the benefits but also the risks and the hazards of alcohol, some of which can be drunk to excess, some of which can be drunk to such excess that it is alcoholism. but alcohol is with us and we need to learn to live with it.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom tacú le gair na tuarascála go dtabharfadh an tsochaí aghaidh ar fhadhbanna mhí-úsáid alcóil. tá an tionchar sóisialta agus eacnamaíoch atá ag mí-úsáid alcóil ar fud na héireann beagnach dothomhaiste. agus muid ag amharc ar dhea-cleachtais i dtíortha eile an aontais, is féidir beartais fhadtéarmacha níos fearr a chumadh le dul i ngleic leis an sciúirse a bhaineann le róthomhaltas alcóil. is féidir comharthaí mí-úsáide alcóil a shonrú trí fhoréigean randamach sráide agus trí mhí-úsáid teaghlaigh. ba chóir go mbeadh aistriúchán ann! people knew i was coming tonight, people knew i was speaking at this time, people know that my language is now a working language of the european union. i gave proper notice. i would like there to be interpreting. i will be very unhappy if there is no interpreting for what i wish to say tonight. is gá dúinn amharc air sin. caithfimid dul i ngleic le ceist na n-alcopops, caithfimid dul i ngleic le húsáid tairiscintí speisialta agus le seifteanna eile margaíochta atá deartha chun díolachán deochanna meisciúla i measc daoine óga, ach go háirithe, a mhéadú. bheadh sé go maith fosta rabhadh a chur ar lipéadaí do mhná atá ag iompar clainne, ach go háirithe. tá monatóireacht níos géire de dhíth ar dhíol alcóil. we need, certainly, a special focus on alcohol-related harm in young people. we need more stringent monitoring of the laws on selling alcohol to under-age children. we need to address the question of alcohol, alcopops, the use of special offers and other marketing devices designed to increase the sales of alcoholic drinks among young people in particular, looking at the availability of public transport at night, the encouragement of designator-driver programmes, and it would also be good to have labelling on alcoholic drinks specifically designed and directed towards women who are pregnant. tá mé iontach míshásta nach bhfuil aistriúchán ar fáil! i am very unhappy that there was no interpreting here. i have played fair with parliament since my language became an official and working language and i had hoped that it would also play fair with me. (applause)
mr president, tonight’s debate on an eu strategy to support member states in reducing alcohol-related harm should be wholeheartedly welcomed. it carries on the work that i conducted in my report in 2001 on young people and alcohol and its negative effects. the globalisation of the alcoholic drinks market and the increase in binge drinking across the eu is a phenomenon that politicians and health bodies alike are trying to grapple with. in order to share best practice and to see how other countries are coping with similar problems, cooperation at eu level is essential. for starters, one accident in four can be linked to alcohol consumption, with 10 000 people killed in alcohol-related road accidents in the eu each year; 35% to 45% of traffic accident deaths are of young people aged 18 to 24. drink-driving accidents are even more revealing: two thirds of the people involved were between 15 and 34 years old and 96% were male. alcohol is estimated to be the causal factor in 16% of cases of child abuse and neglect. take the subject of foetal alcohol syndrome (fas) or foetal alcohol spectrum disorder (fasd): prenatal alcohol abuse is the commonest acquired cause of mental retardation. more recently, medical professionals have stated there is no such thing as a safe level of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. in 2001, at the time of my report on young people and alcohol, fas was relatively unknown. six years later there would appear to be more than acceptance of the argument that, if the same alcoholic beverage in the usa has an fas health warning, why cannot the exact same product in the eu have the same warning? there is no difference between the two products: just that one is sold in the us and the other is not. as ms sinnott said, the rates of women drinking whilst pregnant are 20% in the usa, where fas labelling has been used, whereas in ireland they are 80%, in the uk 75% and in the eu as a whole 40%. fas warnings on alcohol products would be easy to introduce and their impact, combined with public health education and information, would be important in preventing fas in the eu.
in writing. – it is a worrying trend that in recent years alcohol manufacturers are targeting under-age drinkers with products such as ‘alcopops’. binge drinking is increasing amongst young people and it is important that we tackle this development effectively. i believe that a good way to do this is to encourage supermarkets and shops to better separate alcopops from soft drinks. alcopops, along with other alcohol drinks, should also carry adequate health warnings. i am pleased that my amendments along these lines were incorporated into the report. of course, to tackle under-age and binge drinking effectively, national governments must also focus on the consumer through changing attitudes towards alcohol. i therefore welcome the focus on information and awareness-raising campaigns such as through school-based educational programmes. i also support the recommendations that the limit for blood alcohol content (bac) should be set as close to 0.00% as possible, especially for new drivers. i believe that the widespread availability of breath analysers, suggested in the report, can help to deter potential drink drivers. national governments can do more to ensure the availability of public transportation for drivers who have consumed alcohol.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i wish to begin by congratulating mrs jeggle on her three reports – the mini-milk package. it was very clear right from the start that there was general agreement on her reports, and that was demonstrated by the commissioner. members asked for this debate so that they could discuss the wider issues affecting europe’s dairy industry, and i will be no exception to that. until very recently, dairy farms were the cinderella sector of the uk farming industry. thanks to murky economic practices, which allow supermarkets to squeeze down the price of milk to 17p per litre while they sell it on to the public at 50p a litre, many of our dairy farmers were going out of business. it is worth remembering that even at 50p per litre, milk is still half the price of bottled water in our supermarkets, and you do not have to calve a bottle of water or send for the vet to attend to its needs. until quite recently, of the 27 eu member states, only slovakia, estonia, hungary and lithuania had lower milk prices than the uk, and the result has been that in the last five years in my constituency in scotland we have lost around 500 dairy farmers. there are now an estimated 1 400 dairy farms left in scotland – that is all. it is estimated that across the uk one dairy farmer is leaving the industry every day. it is only now as world cereal prices – in particular wheat – have almost doubled, forcing up the price of feed, and as pressure on productive farmland grows for biofuels and other non-food crops, that some supermarkets have finally begun to panic at the prospect of an actual milk shortage and, as a result, have started paying dairy farmers a slightly higher price. at long last, dairy farmers have begun to see some light at the end of the tunnel and they are at least getting more than the cost of production for their commodity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i shall be no exception in this debate in offering my group’s congratulations to the rapporteur for an excellent piece of work which has achieved the fairly unusual feat of keeping everyone pretty well happy. i would also praise the commission for acting on this ahead of the health check, because this is a good piece of work which is long overdue. i shall summarise our own view on the initial comments here from the national farmers’ union of scotland briefing. the proposed changes do not necessarily have a direct impact on farmers, but they will lead to simplification, cost savings and efficiencies further up the chain, all of which will improve dairy sector competitiveness and as such should lead to an indirect benefit to farmers through the marketplace. in my view, the simplification of the school milk regime is particularly to be welcomed. what better way to fulfil so many agricultural, economic and health aims than by encouraging the drinking of milk and milk products by europe’s children? making the system more logical is, if we are honest, long overdue. in praising this package i must agree with my scottish – if not political – colleague, mr stevenson, in pointing to the elephant in the room that is the poor prices that farmers still have to endure, because the supply chain is beyond breaking point and too many of those involved in the market are abusing their position. we in the commission and parliament here tonight have done our part by making the system simpler. we could just as well ask why it was so complicated in the first place, but we have done our job tonight. now national and eu competition authorities must intervene forcefully on the side of farmers who, because of de facto abuses of dominant positions in the market by supermarkets in particular, are continuing to receive a pittance for their quality products. as the commissioner says, the health check is a good opportunity, because until the eu takes action to tackle that elephant in the room, all the good efforts like this package will continue to be overshadowed and lose out in the noise.
mr president, there are three points in the report on the common organisation of the market in milk which i strongly support. one: private storage of cream and skimmed milk powder should not be abolished, but retained as a safety net in the volatile world of milk production. two: the school milk scheme is of critical importance, not least in the fight against obesity, and it should be widened to include new and healthy dairy products. three: a milk fund restructuring programme should be set up for the purpose of retaining for the milk sector savings resulting from the implementation of the mini-milk package, with such a fund being used for marketing support and nutrition awareness. though, at present, the outlook on milk is more optimistic, we need to be sure that no steps are taken that would remove the current safety nets or fail to expand the vision for milk. nor should savings made be lost to the industry and its promotion.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, if we go back just over 2 000 years, we will recall that in the autumn of 68 bc the world’s only superpower suffered a terrorist attack by a band of loosely organised pirates, and in panic the roman senate granted pompey, at least according to plutarch, ‘absolute authority and uncontrolled power over everyone’ through the lex gabinia. by the oldest trick in the book, the military subverted liberty, democracy and the constitution with the assent of rome’s frightened citizens, and it took 1 800 years for mature democracy to resurface in europe. now, once again, laws that take away our freedoms risk entering by the back door. i welcome the oral questions that colleagues have tabled today, with their very specific questions to council and commission. i do not argue that counter-terrorism laws are unnecessary. the arrest yesterday of three people in germany and the arrest this morning of another three in denmark show the continuing threat that terrorists pose to our society. my group is united in its belief that we need more judicial cooperation to make europol and eurojust as effective as possible. we backed the european arrest warrant to the hilt, trusting the council to put minimum procedural guarantees in place. we would support a european fbi. liberals and democrats are not soft on crime. indeed, we are astonished at the failure of europe’s right-wing-dominated council to find a coherent approach to a matter of law and order. what we are saying, however, is that laws must be proportionate to threats. and indeed, if the threat is so great, why has the council not moved to replace its anti-terrorism coordinator since the last one left in march? mr president- in-office, you have told us that you are ‘reflecting on the best way of ensuring cooperation’. well, the terrorists have had six months while you have been reflecting. you tell us that ‘the united states has the leading role in counter-terrorism’. we want the european union to set its own policy. you tell us that the european parliament has, and i quote, ‘a primordial role’, but that primordial role turns out to be a courtesy meeting once every six months with the chairman of our committee. i welcome commissioner frattini’s agreement today to evaluate with parliament the effectiveness of european union policy, and i hope the council presidency will come along with him for that debate. since 9/11, we have had a counter-terrorism strategy, an action plan, a framework decision and several cooperation initiatives. none of these has been thoroughly and openly evaluated, let alone by europe’s democratic institutions. the council and the commission should involve parliament in a comprehensive review of all the measures adopted thus far. here in parliament, we should be insisting on sunset clauses for anti-terror laws so that legislation susceptible to abuse does not remain on the statute books any longer than necessary. we are now on to the third and final pnr agreement, for example, an agreement which in perpetuity gives up certain rights for uncertain benefits. my group questions whether security really demands that the united states government knows our dietary preferences. commissioner frattini, you tell us that 85% of citizens are strongly in favour of european action. mr lobo antunes, you tell us that the presidency has no doubt that its measures are supported by citizens. have the two of you not passed through an airport this summer? have you not heard the young women asking why their lipstick has to be confiscated before they board an aeroplane? have you not heard the old ladies cry out in frustration when their toenail scissors are taken away? have you not listened to the people infuriated at how anti-terror laws are being exploited for commercial gain? my local airport now charges people 50 pence for a plastic bag into which travellers have to put their toothpaste. constituents have written to me about how much is being charged for bottled water air-side of the security controls. the lex gabinia was a classic illustration of the law of unintended consequences because it fatally subverted the institutions it was supposed to protect. i hope that europe’s anti-terror laws will not end up doing the same. karl popper once said, ‘we must plan for freedom, and not only for security, if for no other reason than only freedom can make security secure’. (applause)
mr president, there are essentially two points i would like to make in this important debate. first, all or most of us can come to this house and deplore and denounce terrorism, as well we might, because it is vile and indefensible in all its forms. but within the eu do we always consistently practise what we preach? events at frankfurt and in denmark are a reminder of the ever-present threat of terrorism. if any government minister anywhere in the eu were to condemn those arrests this morning or later to resist connected necessary extraditions, we would all be outraged because terrorism is terrorism and is not sanitised by the passage of time. yet in my small country just weeks ago we had the deputy first minister, martin mcguinness, who knows more than most about the hideous practice of terrorism, reverting to form and vehemently attacking the german government’s current application, under a european arrest warrant, for the extradition of an irish republican suspect for a bombing many years ago in germany. such behaviour is intolerable. just as was the harbouring by ireland of three ira terrorists convicted in colombia. so i say it behoves us all in europe to lead by example. we cannot pick and choose in attacking and resisting terrorism. if we are against it, we must be against it all and act accordingly. if you genuinely support the rule of law, then you do not attack and protest against the means of securing international justice. my second point is that the recourse of eta to active terrorism is a timely reminder that seldom does the terrorist leopard change its spots. those who stoop to terrorism have an amoral mindset, capable of switching for tactical reasons to supposed commitment to political means if, for the time being, it better serves their purposes. we should all be wary of such and never make the mistake of judging terrorists by our own standards.
mr president, coming from london i in no way minimise the terrorist threat. indeed, we londoners have endured it for decades, including when it was irish republican terrorism part-funded from the united states. the moral high ground is a precarious location. europol tells us that there were almost 500 terrorist attacks in the eu last year. of course it is a major criminal threat, but so are drug smuggling, people trafficking and corruption. where is the council action to insist that all member states sign and ratify the european convention on human trafficking? where was the council protest when the uk government terminated a major corruption probe in january against ‘national champion’ arms manufacturer bae? just because liberals question the effectiveness of the liquids ban compared to its inconvenience, or challenge the mass collection of personal data, does not mean that we are soft on terrorism. no area of policy should escape democratic accountability. i was proud to be vice-chair of the european parliament’s enquiry on extraordinary rendition and i share the outrage others have expressed on the complete silence of the council in the face of our findings that many member states were complicit in massive human rights abuses, of abduction and torture. the council would do well to look in its own backyard before it gobbles up the civil liberties of eu citizens. meps have had no information on the implementation of the framework decision on terrorism passed over five years ago. has every member state fully transposed it? how many cases have there been? how many investigations or convictions have been recorded? we know that agencies, even within one state, will not share information because of jealousies, power struggles and turf wars, let alone through cross-border cooperation. why not make that a priority instead of frenetically legislating to take away our privacy all the time? there is also a lot of inconsistency when it comes to tackling radicalism. this is an important subject, but it also implies the integration of the vast majority of moderate muslims, and yet there are parts of the eu where great difficulties are placed in the way of the building of mosques. why not look at that? mr szymański expressed an extreme right-wing view that we cannot pay too high a price for security. i could not disagree with that more fundamentally. is it not what the communists said to justify their repression? instead of trading too much liberty for security, let us look at what really works: targeted investigations and intelligence-led policing. that is the way to keep public confidence and cooperation.
mr president, this debate is about the safety of our people and the preservation of our way of life, our liberal democracy, the rule of law and the defence of freedom. terrorism strikes at the very heart of all of these things. in all its forms, terrorism defines the fight between good and evil, and we must remain ever vigilant. in britain we had the ira to deal with for three decades. more recently, we have had the london suicide bombings and the attempts to cause carnage in glasgow. my colleagues from spain battle with the evil campaign of terror waged by eta. they have our complete support in their courageous response. tackling radicalisation is a major challenge, but we live in a world where the terror threat is constantly changing and becoming more sophisticated. the democracies of the world must remain vigilant, must share intelligence more effectively and must be prepared to take tough action. terrorism is an act of war on the fabric of our society. it is perpetrated by criminals and murderers who detest our liberal democracy and freedom. terrorist groups must be banned, and those who perpetrate violence, incite terrorism or give succour to terrorists should be tackled. in terms of the action that eu member states can take together, we saw at the weekend the arrest of eta bomb-makers. this shows that joint investigation teams add value to the anti-terrorism fight. today we vote on the restriction of liquids on aircraft. the security of the travelling public must be our prime concern – the concern of ourselves, of governments, airport operators and airlines. but, as with all legislation, improvements can be brought about in the light of experience and i believe there is a case – and a good one – for a review of how that is operating. at the same time we should rely fundamentally on available intelligence to assist legislators like ourselves in determining the nature and extent of the ongoing threat. i commend commissioner frattini’s proposals, which are positive in that respect. there is, i appreciate, a delicate balance, but in any event we must always do what we can to protect our people from the evil and murderous intent of terrorism.
madam president, i welcome the responses of commissioner frattini and the president-in-office of the council. however, the reality is that we in this house have the luxury of talk, talk, talk. but actually, in government and in the commission, you have to take action – action to prevent terrorist attacks: terrorist attacks which are not imagined; terrorist attacks which are real, which are being planned currently. the reality of politics is that if you took no action, the same members of this house who attack you for taking the action, would attack you because you had not acted. therefore, i welcome the strategy, and the fact that we will review the strategy. furthermore, what we have to do, as has been said before, is to tackle the roots of terrorism. they lie in hopelessness and despair, in poverty, in the preaching of hatred. let me say quite clearly and unequivocally, those who espouse a cause, a tradition or a religion for their terrorist acts undermine their ideology, their religion, their cause and their tradition. now, above all, we need to act as 27 member states – not separately – and act in conjunction with our allies, including the united states. the united states is not a problem. the attacks on the united states did not occur on september 11, they occurred before then, and an attack upon one is arguably an attack upon all of us.
madam president, i have just come from a press conference calling for rigorous implementation of economic sanctions against the iranian regime, a notorious sponsor of terrorism across the middle east and beyond. i am sure we all welcome measures that genuinely help in combating terrorism, but i wonder how much of the long list of eu activity that we have heard about this morning falls into this category. the eu is very good at extending its competences and adding to its bureaucratic apparatus but has little to show for its activity and expenditure. we have had some discussion of the eu counter-terrorism coordinator. his title implies some sort of oversight role which is wholly inappropriate. to my mind, such a person should focus on the workings of the eu and on limited areas where there is clear added value from joint action. i have great respect for commissioner frattini but the eu really cannot claim credit for the actions of our national police and security services. it would be useful to carry out an independent audit of the eu’s so-called counter-terrorist measures. counter-terrorism must remain a national responsibility and a matter of international cooperation. the eu should be concentrating on ways in which it can support that nationally-delivered counter-terrorism effort. one of the serious difficulties in our efforts to protect our citizens comes in the failure to control our borders; terrorists come and go and continued uncontrolled immigration is a major obstacle to the proper integration of our settled immigrants. this must be a key element in any counter-terrorist strategy. this problem also brings into question the whole principle of free movement of people and that is another area that should be examined again by an independent body. i mentioned the responsibility of our national authorities for these matters. i am sorry to say that the british authorities have failed disastrously to control our borders. not only do we have little idea who enters and leaves our country but there are serious question marks over the border and immigration agency, which is charged with implementing controls. i am alarmed to read that a woman who for many months knew the suspected terrorists currently on trial for terrorist offences in glasgow and who apparently did not report his activities is now employed as an immigration ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, on a point of order, can i ask for an urgent action by the president of parliament to call for the protection of a delegation from colombia which visited our parliament on 27 and 28 june, and whose members this week received a public death threat because they had spoken out here in favour of the proposal for a humanitarian exchange of prisoners in the colombian conflict? the accusation that the delegation’s members, including yolanda pulecio de betancourt, mother of the french former colombian presidential candidate, monsignor luis augusto castro, the head of the catholic church in colombia, and dr jose noe rios, the general secretary of the colombian liberal party, are all supporters of the country’s guerrilla movement, is both preposterous and puts the group in grave danger. on humanitarian grounds alone, i ask the president to do everything possible to make representations for their safety. (applause)
mr president, concerning declarations of interest, could you explain to me whether, in the vote on the next three reports on milk, the dairy farmers among us should declare an interest and refrain from voting? (applause)
mr president, as we have a delegation from the south african parliament in the gallery, could we ask them to take back from this house a message of condemnation of the mugabe regime in zimbabwe and our expectation that south africa should bring in appropriate measures to bring about change for the better in that country? (applause)
in writing. i support the elles report on the draft amending budget no 5/2007. in doing so, i would like to point out a particular problem for my own country that might mitigate against support for additional spending. the problem britain has is that margaret thatcher with the 1984 fontainebleau agreement left future british governments with a poison pill. fontainebleau gives britain back a rebate of two-thirds the difference between our annual contributions and annual receipts from the eu. thus any new expenditure programmes cost britain twice; first we pay our 50% and then lose two thirds of the eu contribution, diminishing uniquely in our case the eu contribution from 50% to less than 17%. allowing for the fact britain’s contributions are just below 15% of the total budget, any new project for which britain receives less than a third of the benefits leaves britain out of pocket.
in writing. in order to ensure the integrity of this parliament, all members who have a financial interest in the dairy sector should declare an interest in these votes.
in writing. although ukip makes the point on principle to support any repeal of eu legislation, this is a national security issue and as such the party could not support a measure that could place air passengers and crew at risk. as hmg has stated, terrorism remains a serious and continuing threat.
in writing. although ukip makes the point on principle to support any repeal of eu legislation, this is a national security issue and as such the party could not support a measure that could place air passengers and crew at risk. as hmg has expressed, terrorism remains a serious and continuing threat. hmg's view: hmg welcomes the tran committee resolution's acknowledgement that europe needs a high level of security in aviation. terrorism remains a serious and continuing threat. it is currently impractical to test more than a small proportion of the liquids that passengers wish to carry. so the interim controls, pending work on a more convenient technology-based solution, represent the only present way of properly ensuring passenger safety.
in writing. i voted for this resolution particularly because of the demand contained within it for a review of the effectiveness and fairness of regulation (ec) no 1546/2006 (introduction of liquids onto aircraft). what i find most absurd is that i can fly into europe with duty-free liquids alcohol, perfume or food bought outside of the eu but should i transit to another plane within the eu, it will be confiscated by the authorities. does it not occur to the commission that terrorists probably are more aware of the regulation than your average passenger and will therefore act accordingly? it equally implies that security at all extra-eu airports are inferior to the worst eu airport. as a regular air traveller, i find that difficult, if not impossible, to believe.
in writing. i support moves to review the current restrictions on the quantity of liquids passengers are allowed to carry on board aircraft in the eu. i voted in favour of the resolution which asks the european commission to review the restrictions and ensure they are proportionate to any risk. we need restrictions that are realistic and in proportion to any potential threat. we all take the need to guard against terrorist threats very seriously, but our response has to be proportionate and justified. there is cross-party concern that the current restrictions imposed by the european commission are disproportionately costly and disruptive. i would like to see the situation reviewed, and if these restrictions are to continue, then the commission needs to clearly justify precisely why they are needed.
in writing. british conservatives fully support a review of the regulation governing what liquids passengers can and cannot take on board aeroplanes. the way in which this regulation has been applied across the eu has varied, giving rise to inconsistencies and manifest unfairness, and any review must address this aspect as a matter of urgency. however, we do not consider it would be right to call for a repeal of the regulations at this stage, since as a matter of principle the outcome of an expert review should not be pre-judged and protection of the public is paramount.
in writing. ukip supports the repeal of all eu legislation. however, this is a particular measure which would put passengers and crew at risk and which we cannot therefore support.
in writing. i voted against this resolution which seeks to repeal the existing regulation, introduced last year, that restricts liquids on board aircraft. i am worried that british liberal and green members of the european parliament have now opened up the possibility of repealing this law, even though the strong advice from both the security services and the department of transport is to keep this legislation in place. while i agree with reviewing the legislation on an ongoing basis, it is both premature and dangerous to repeal the legislation at present.
in writing. i voted against this report because, whilst it makes real sense to review the impact of this measure, it is important not to repeal it. the passengers that travel through european airports like gatwick in my region are often confused and upset with the application of this rule. in particular the way in which passengers are expected to turn over their ‘duty-free’ liquids purchased at an airport to the authorities checking hand luggage. the problem seems to be with passengers in transit who buy in the ‘transit’ airport and then attempt to check through security for their further flight. i opposed a full repeal because there are still legitimate security concerns which must be our first priority. there are also alternatives to a simple repeal which might produce better convenience for passengers and maintain security.
in writing. the current, mindless airport and aviation security measures are an unfortunate and constant reminder of terrorism. they do not instil public confidence. there have to be security checks – both on the public side and airside. but these should make sense and be flexible. above all, they should be targeted more effectively. this means ‘profiling’, a key measure that is avoided for fear of a ‘discrimination’ accusation. it is curious that the european commission thinks it has to give the green light to new security measures for europe’s airports. governments of eu countries should co-ordinate their response – but this must not be an excuse to extend the competence of the commission into new areas. certainly the british government must resist any further attempt to remove our national veto on justice and policing matters. the international civil aviation organisation, with its global reach, is the appropriate body to ensure that airports around the world meet security needs. we abstained on the resolution.
in writing. although i will be supporting the ayala sender report because it contains a number of good and constructive suggestions as regards the technical subject of freight logistics, i do have some concerns. one thing that concerns me is that the possibility of introducing 60-tonne mega lorries throughout europe is a concept that i believe to be misguided and inappropriate when rail freight is at a low ebb, and when national infrastructures cannot sustain 60-tonne lorries it seems crazy to move away from present weight limits. i appreciate that some countries already have 60-tonne lorries, which is why it is right to allow member states to decide for themselves what their national weight limit should be. however this should not be taken as giving a green light to 60-tonne lorries per se, nor should it be seen as a kind of 'thin end of the wedge' scenario. sadly, mrs ayala sender's excellent report has been given an unjust hearing because members and the media have highlighted just one section of it - namely 60-tonne mega lorries. it is right therefore to reiterate yet again that there will be no compulsion on member states to introduce them on their national networks.
in writing. i supported this report and am pleased that there will now be a real effort to tackle under-age and binge drinking. i support the recommendation also that the blood alcohol limit be as close to 0.00% as possible especially for new drivers although i realise that a 0.00% limit is impractical. i believe that alcopops must be separated from soft drinks in supermarkets and i am pleased that the report highlights this.
in writing. foetal alcohol syndrome (fas) and foetal alcohol spectrum disorder (fasd) need to be seriously considered as a matter of urgency. fas warnings on alcohol products, similar to those in the usa, combined with a public health education campaign are an effective way of warning of the impact of drinking while pregnant. there is no safe level of alcohol consumption during pregnancy and women deserve to know the facts. the alcohol industry must act as a matter of urgency. also, all members who have a financial interest in the alcohol industry should declare an interest.
acting president of the council. mr president, members of the european commission, members of the european parliament, as you can imagine, it is too early to make an assessment of the recent episodes of turbulence on the financial markets. we will have to wait for more concrete economic data and, as you know, the council has not met since the end of july, but in the meantime i take up the words of the president of the eurogroup, mr jean-claude juncker, that is to say, there is no visible impact on the growth prospects in the euro area as a whole so far. the european economy has continued to grow strongly on solid foundations. the year has been very positive in terms of the reduction of budget deficits, the stability of the euro, economic growth and employment. it is in this context that the recent episodes of financial turbulence to which i referred earlier must be seen. that is all i have to say on the subject for the time being. i am sure that the informal meeting of ecofin ministers, which will take place on 14 and 15 september in porto, portugal, will, as is customary in these councils, examine the economic and financial situation of the union in greater detail and on the basis of a more complex and up-to-date set of data. i would also like to tell you that the portuguese presidency will continue its efforts to consolidate a single market for financial services. the continued strong investment in converging supervisory practices and continuous improvement of the prudential architecture also clearly shows that we have not underestimated the importance of a framework that promotes financial stability. finally, in general terms, the presidency is committed to continuing to implement the lisbon agenda. this implementation is our best contribution to strengthening the growth potential of the european economy and maintaining solid foundations, and the portuguese presidency remains strongly committed in this area.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the financial markets have been experiencing serious turbulence in recent weeks, caused in the first place by the deterioration of the us subprime mortgage market. this deterioration has been transmitted to the financial markets as a whole by means of bonds and financial products backed by these mortgages, which have been acquired in large quantities by financial institutions in recent years almost worldwide. if we look at the correction in the stock market indices during these weeks, it has not been greater than in the last two years; however, what has happened during this recent period has the particularity of having generated a liquidity crisis in the interbank markets, which has forced the central banks to inject large amounts of money. the liquidity problems are clearly linked to a deterioration in confidence due to the lack of information on the overall exposure of market participants to products linked to us subprime mortgages. the impact of these turbulences may go beyond what is known so far and therefore demands our full attention and fully justifies the debate in this house today. it is too early to quantify the consequences of this crisis on the real economy. the final impact will depend mainly on three factors. first, we must look at the direct impact of the deterioration of the us housing sector on the us economy as a whole, although there is no doubt that this impact will be negative and that us growth will be lower than previously forecast. given the weight of the us economy on the world economy as a whole, the slowdown in growth in the us will have some impact on the rest of the economies and in particular on the european economies. this impact should in principle be limited in our case, since the external economic activity of the countries of the european union is carried out essentially at intra-community level and, moreover, the world economy continues to grow at a high rate, thanks to the dynamism of the emerging countries, among others. emerging countries, by the way, which have been little affected by this crisis. the second relevant factor in assessing the possible impact of financial turbulence is the evolution of financing conditions for firms and households. a re-evaluation of risk premia more in line with the real valuation of risk is already being observed, which corrects a situation in which the abundance of liquidity had led to a certain relaxation of the risk assessment. this has positive aspects, but if financing conditions were to tighten beyond certain limits, economic activity would certainly be affected by the reduced availability of capital. the third factor, and probably the most important and the most difficult to predict, will be the impact on trust. trust is a key driver of investment and consumption decisions, but unlike the above factors, it is a subjective value that is built on the sum of messages, perceptions and information received by economic agents, including messages from public authorities, whether national governments, parliamentary representatives or international organisations. i therefore think that today's debate is a good opportunity, in addition to analysing the direct consequences of what has happened on the markets in recent weeks, to recall and underline that the european economy still has, as the council representative has just said, solid foundations, which should not be significantly affected by the recent turbulence and that our economy is therefore in a good position to overcome the uncertainties that have been generated. as i said before, the world economy is maintaining a strong dynamism, thanks to which the external sector of our economy continues to have a trade surplus, as the latest eurostat data show. investment, and in particular investment in capital goods, also remains at high levels, which support current economic activity and augur future productivity improvements. private consumption benefits from continued job creation, which allows us to reflect in our latest statistics an unemployment rate in the euro area and the european union at levels almost comparable to historical lows: in the case of the euro area, an unemployment level below 7%. and inflation is holding steady. as a result, firms are achieving very positive results, which should enable them to cope with a possible tightening of credit without having to seriously revise their investment and growth plans. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that, as one of the downside risks that we have been warning about for some time now, when we published our economic forecasts, a risk of the deterioration of the us mortgage market and its impact on the north american economy, materializes, growth this year and next, in the european union and the euro zone, will not exceed the forecasts we announced in may of this year. nevertheless, there are good reasons for expressing confidence in the foundations of the european economy and its ability to overcome the current turbulence. on tuesday 11 november, i will publish, on behalf of the european commission, the interim growth forecasts for 2007 for the euro area and the european union, which will give us a first indication of the possible impact of the crisis. on the same day i shall have the opportunity to present these forecasts to the honourable members in my appearance before the committee on economic and monetary affairs of this parliament. the forecasts for 2008 and beyond, as you know, will have to wait, as usual, until the publication of our economic forecasts next november.
member of the commission. mr president, the united states sub-prime mortgage crisis and its potential impact in europe have been occupying our attention in recent weeks. the european mortgage market has different characteristics than that of the united states, so problems on anything like a similar scale are less likely to arise in europe in the near future. sub-prime lending in the european union is very limited compared to the united states and we have safeguards in place, such as lending rules and limits on loan to value. the recent turmoil has, however, clearly demonstrated the interconnectivity and globalisation of financial markets. risks have been spread wisely. this is positive. contagion, however, is an issue. some european banks and asset funds are exposed to sub-prime related securities. there have been some real problems, notably via the liquidity squeeze of the asset-backed and commercial paper markets. what can europe learn from this crisis? it is too early to draw firm conclusions, as there is too much uncertainty in the market. it is also important to react sensibly, taking the necessary time to assess the situation. fast policy reaction is likely to be a bad reaction. the following issues emerge from our preliminary thinking: firstly, the interconnectivity of markets shows how important it is to have a globally converged approach to regulation, with sound prudential rules and proper investor protection standards. it makes the commission’s regulatory dialogues with the united states and other jurisdictions even more critical. high standards of regulation are necessary throughout global financial markets, given the spill-over effects. secondly, questions about mortgage lending in the united states inevitably arise. while i support the notion of facilitating access to the housing market for people who would not normally be able to buy a home, with hindsight the adequacy of regulation and consumer protection will inevitably be debated. repair is under way, but the problem will take some time to resolve. one of the lessons from the crisis is the importance of lifetime financial education for citizens, whilst ensuring that responsible lending is enforced. in the european union we are already looking at these issues within our ongoing work on consumer and mortgage credit and consumer education. thirdly, the transfer of mortgage loans, and their risks, to other parties has been at the centre of this crisis. sometimes these risks have returned to the originating bank when their financial vehicles could not sell off or finance the bank-originated securities. we certainly need to look closely at the mechanisms at play – that is the role of conduits and special-purpose vehicles, and their relevance for european banks. the problems of valuation of complex securitised products and market-clearing mechanisms in stressful market situations also need further analysis. the recent market crisis has also highlighted the importance of reputational – as well as liquidity – risks as important drivers to properly assess banks’ risk exposure to complex transactions. fourthly, what about basel ii, the new capital requirements directive for banks? basel ii provides improved opportunities to banks and investment firms to properly assess risks and to correctly calibrate their regulatory capital. so will solvency ii, which is basel’s broad equivalent for the insurance sector. however, this does not mean we should be complacent. there will be implications that will require careful examination by regulators. for example, more work will be needed on the capital calibration of complex products and of banks’ ability to identify potential problems in crisis situations, including potential concentration of risks in certain areas. fifthly, many hedge funds have been particularly active in the structured credit markets. many of those hedge funds and their wealthy private or institutional investors may have incurred losses – some heavy – in recent months. that is the way markets go. sophisticated players in hedge funds know this. financial markets function on risk. i do not criticise those who make fortunes when times are good; i am not going to shed any tears now if there are losses. however, the crucial thing is that hedge fund failures do not appear to have spilled over to the wider financial system. investment fund rules, usits, have held up. our prudential framework and bank risk controls have, as we expected, prevented hedge fund failures from triggering wider systemic disruption. as much as some people want to demonise hedge funds, they are not the cause of the difficulties in the market. let us not forget where the present crisis has its roots: poor-quality lending, compounded by securitisation of these loans in off-balance sheet vehicles, the risks associated with which few understood. these are issues that prudential authorities and supervisors will need to focus on in the time ahead. sixthly, what was the role of credit-rating agencies in this crisis? i have already expressed criticism about how slow they were in downgrading their credit ratings for structural finance backed up by sub-prime lending. how robust was their methodology? how well were the limitations in the ratings of structural products, vis-à-vis standard corporate ratings, explained and understood? potential conflicts of interests of credit-rating agencies is another concern: on the one hand because they act as advisers to banks on how to structure their offerings to get the best mix of ratings; on the other, credit-rating agencies provide ratings that are widely relied upon by investors. they also concern regulators, given their importance for the calculation of banks’ capital requirements. it has been alleged that there was unwarranted rating inflation for structural products. the role of credit-rating agencies needs to be clearer: what they do and what they do not do, the extent to which they can be relied up and the extent to which they cannot. i am following up these issues with committee of european securities regulators (cesr) and i intend raising them also with our international partners. what we need are clear, robust, methodological rules and principles that are rigorously applied, and a much deeper understanding by investors of the uses and limitations of ratings and their reliability or otherwise. the scope for conflicts of interest to influence ratings must be firmly addressed. of course, adequate due diligence by other market players is also essential. where was it? were firms and the professionals they employ constantly and objectively assessing the quality of the instruments they were buying and selling and the risk implications of the structures of those instruments, or were they just assuming? did they stop and consider the viability of the underlying assets, the fraud risks, the track records of the originators and the trends in the markets? did they question the ratings themselves and did they have access to the necessary data, both qualitative and quantitative, to do so? i hope that the boards of all financial firms will examine their actions and draw appropriate conclusions. we believe that light-touch, principled-based regulation is the best approach for the financial sector – it has proven its value. but we need to remain vigilant and draw lessons. all parties need to take their responsibility and to take it seriously.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, while the council was not meeting, at least the european central bank, was at work and i think can be given some credit for having stemmed the possible further infection in europe. let us hope it will continue to play that sensible, reasonable and sensitive role. but every so often it seems that it is the inevitable fact of financial life that the chase after competitive advantage will lead to excesses, which in turn lead to the predictable bust. these pressures are largely responsible also for the urge to develop these innovative financial instruments which mr mccreevy described, and which lurk behind the development of this crisis in the american sub-prime mortgage market and its resulting transmission to europe. i do not see this situation as a justification for a witch-hunt on hedge funds. to some extent they have been perhaps sophisticated, or naive, victims of these new-fangled alchemies. in the same way, normally conservative but naive banks have been tempted by the enhanced interest rates paid by these supposedly high-rated instruments to go for what has obviously turned out to be too good to be true. it seems that few operators in the financial markets, including, probably, few regulators, sufficiently understand these instruments, these credit derivatives, these collateralised debt obligations. even less do they fully understand the potential risks and implications. so it is incumbent on the authorities both in the us and europe – and i am glad to see that mr mccreevy is going to take this particular aspect so seriously – that they all become more conversant with these mechanisms with their structuring and their slicing, how these slices are rated, valued, accounted, with their marketing, with their liquidity and tradability. innovation is as desirable in financial mechanisms as anywhere else. this must not be inhibited but, when problems of this seriousness are likely to emerge, it is essential that managers and regulators shoulder their responsibilities to understand them fully and, if and where necessary, introduce the requisite restraints.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i would like to address my remarks to the gallery, which is a lot more filled than this hemicycle is with members. i hope you have got your headphones on because decisions are being made here today by people with absolutely no knowledge of international finance at all. i have been 40 years in financial services; i am a professional economist – we are talking about hedge funds, we are talking about international currency. if you want to look up the books and see what expertise the members of the european parliament have, i think you will be bitterly disappointed. but here we are, making decisions for global finance. forty percent of british gdp is the city of london. we have people from poland, the czech republic and latvia who have absolutely no knowledge of these sorts of things whatsoever, deciding where we are going to go for the future in international finance. (uproar)they do not understand about these things. they do not know anything about these things, any more than they do about agricultural policy, fisheries policy – the lot – but here it is. ladies and gentlemen in the gallery, if you want to see international finance, go to dubai, to new york, to los angeles, to bermuda. you are looking at the people down there – look at them. none of them have ever done a real job in their lives. this is a mickey mouse assembly, and we are going to lose the lot.
mr president, the process of sub-prime lending has definitely been a huge problem causing the financial turbulence which we have witnessed this summer. that was clear, but what is less clear is the identification of investors and counterparties which may be, and continue to be, under stress, and that identity is absolutely vital for us to clear up. this is due by and large, as we have heard today, to the sophistication of financial instruments which are viewed by some as akin to alchemy. however, we need to take a careful and cautious look at what to do about these and the effects that have been caused by that turbulence. over-reaction may be equally as damaging as what has already occurred, as we find the price of credit rising as a result. this is not good for the lisbon process, we should be reminded. so what has actually happened in the usa to close the door on some of these issues? it might be said that the barn door has just been closed when the horse is in the field, and that would be true to say. however, largely speaking, the sub-prime mortgage lending area was unregulated. that is a fact now which has been addressed very directly as industrial regulatory and legislative initiatives, i am told, are under way. at the same time, a high level working group has been set up under the auspices of the white house to look at credit rating agencies and sophisticated financial vehicles. what we can draw from that is that it is vital to work closely with the united states and other global markets as we share the same conclusions about the transparency in these markets. if we do not, because the global markets are intertwined so closely, we will stand to lose so much of the benefit that could be added by the conclusions which we would have to share. what has happened within the eu and what has happened within the us? i share some confidence now in the commission, and of course with the ecb as well as with the federal reserve in the united states, in what they have done. they have helped to settle down the markets, which was exactly what we needed to do. i can agree, however, with some of the speakers here today on calling for proportionate responses and i can maintain that in the sense of the confidence that i have. i believe that the securitisation and special purpose vehicles, which will be under scrutiny along with the credit rating agencies, do need to be opened up to greater scrutiny and transparency, that is clear, as ms berès has already said. but let us be clear that the sophistication of financial instruments is difficult for many of us to understand, and the role of credit rating agencies is open. (the president cut off the speaker)
the policy of the european union has been, ever since the palestinian elections, to refuse to talk to elected representatives associated with hamas. every time hamas has made a small step that might be interpreted as being in our direction, we have slammed the door in its face. from talks i have had with some of the president-in-office’s colleagues in lisbon, i know that there are members of his government who believe that this policy has been a disastrous failure. but, in this instance, his job is to talk on behalf of the council and defend the indefensible. can he tell the house in what ways the council believes that its policy has proven a success?
let me rephrase mr davies’ very good question. does the council believe we can make progress in the middle east without bringing hamas to the table? unless hamas is involved in discussions, the quartet can meet all they want but there will be no solution. does the council accept that some day it is going to have to sit face-to-face with hamas to solve this situation?
i am very encouraged by the president-in-office’s response and wish him well for the october meeting. i hope he gets a successful package. if he does, will he consider publishing towards the end of this year how much each of the individual member states has contributed in the form of aid for trade? we know the commission eur 1 billion is very transparent, and it is very obvious how it is being spent. it is not so clear where the eur 1 billion from the member states is supposed to come from, whether this is actually happening and who it is coming from. would the council consider publishing that in november or december?
mr president, can the council therefore confirm that discussions in the council on both the availability principle and the police cooperation measure have been suspended? you have recognised that the prüm treaty is less ambitious than either of those, so have you suspended them? why can the council keep legislating for things that infringe on people’s personal privacy but they cannot get to the root of cooperation between police? one of the impediments to that is the lack of an overall data protection framework, of course. we were promised by the german presidency that such an instrument would be adopted this year. is the portuguese presidency actively progressing that, and what are the main blockages? the council and the member states need to get on with practical cooperation of policing within a firm data protection framework.
acting president of the council. as the honourable member knows, there is a kind of annual review of turkey's accession to the european union. this review process, or the status of this process, takes place every second semester of each year and is where all these issues are analysed and debated on the basis of commission reports. this will be the case again this year during the portuguese presidency, and this will be a good occasion, indeed the right occasion, for these questions to be and to be discussed by the council.
acting president of the council. as is well known, the eu-brazil summit was held in lisbon on 4 july with a view to launching a bilateral strategic partnership aimed at deepening cooperation between the two parties in a wide range of areas of common interest. they agreed on a joint declaration that focuses on several areas where our bilateral relations should be increased, and we agreed to make this partnership with brazil operational and future-oriented. the european union and brazil worked together to develop an action plan containing practical, joint and coordinated proposals on issues likely to contribute to the definition of a common agenda. the interesting debate covered bilateral relations between the european union and brazil, regional issues, including developments in europe and latin america, but also global issues such as the doha development agenda, effective multilateralism, climate change, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, and energy issues. on the question of trade relations, although the lisbon summit was not and was not the appropriate forum for the conduct of technical negotiations, there was an interesting exchange of views. trade commissioner peter mandelson reiterated that it was and would continue to be a priority for the european union to achieve positive results in the doha development round. despite the disappointing results of the recent g4 meeting in potsdam, negotiations continued in geneva and no one could afford to pass up this opportunity to reach an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive agreement. brazil considered the two negotiating positions to be close to each other. continued discussions and closer coordination would make it possible to reach an agreement. both sides agreed that reaching an agreement in doha would contribute to the conclusion of the eu-mercosur agreement. on the issue of climate change and energy, both sides referred to the international conference on biofuels, which took place on 5 and 6 july in brussels, as a step in the right direction to dispel criticism that the use of biofuels allegedly carries risks. the president of the commission, josé manuel barroso, referred to three key areas: the definition of common technical standards for a sustainable international market for biofuels, biofuels as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and achieving food security. president lula, for his part, linked the debate on climate change to reducing pollution, in which the energy-combination approach practiced by brazil over the past twenty years has proven to be more environmentally friendly and more sustainable than the high-tech engines of the european union. it also refuted the allegations of threats to the amazon rainforest and to food security.
acting president of the council. the summit, as i have said, was an initiative of the portuguese presidency and is the first summit held with brazil and from which we hope to develop a strategic relationship with that country. it was the first initiative. it was intended to identify the areas and sectors where we would like to see our relationship with brazil developed in depth. the economic issues were addressed, but you will understand that they were addressed in a more general, strategic context and with a particular focus on the issues that are on the table in the doha negotiations. obviously the more specific issues will have to be addressed more at a technical level and at a more appropriate level. however, trade issues in general and the concerns of both the european union and brazil in this regard were discussed in a very open and frank atmosphere, with each side presenting its views and expressing its wish that we can bring this doha negotiating process to a successful conclusion.
i take that answer as a ‘no’ to mrs mcguinness’ question; that you did not trouble to press the brazilian authorities about the lamentable health standards pertaining to their beef exports and the total lack of traceability in respect of their livestock herds. it will come as a grave disappointment to farming and consumer interests across europe that, when you had the opportunity, you failed to press this all-important issue. when is the council going to wake up to the health implications for the citizens of europe and press brazil for realistic traceability in respect of their livestock?
i would like to thank the president-in-office for the warm words that he gave. indeed, flexicurity is a good principle, as we say in this chamber and in the european institutions. however, many people say that flexibility we see a lot of, but where is the security? the temporary agency workers directive remains a real test of whether there is to be that security aspect. i wonder what the president-in-office thinks are the blockages at the moment, within the european council of ministers, that are preventing progress being made. despite the good offices of the presidency, how confident is he that the council will indeed be able to reach agreement during the term of office of our portuguese colleagues?
madam president, the valenciano martínez-orozco report on promoting human rights and democracy remains a fundamental cornerstone of the eu and the common values that unite the 27 member states. it is also a key component externally in our strategic alliances beyond, in the wider 47-member-state council of europe, in our transatlantic partnership in nato and with like-minded countries within the un. inevitably, as the union has progressed with more and more formal trade and political cooperation agreements, we have sought to impose a degree of fundamental human rights conditionality on our global partners – albeit it ad hoc and inconsistent at best – aided by a specific instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights, and supported by human rights dialogues and consultations when required. the european neighbourhood policy (enp), for which i am co-rapporteur for parliament, aims at establishing a ring of neighbouring friends committed to a common area of peace, stability, security, full respect for human rights and democracy, freedom of the press, independence of the judiciary, the rule of law and prosperity. enp action plans build on the existing, legally binding under the treaty, contractual frameworks – association agreements in the case of euromed partners or partnership and cooperation agreements with former soviet states – which typically include human rights and democracy clauses that are monitored so that, the closer the enp partner country comes in terms of shared values, the greater the aid and trade cooperation granted by the eu. these action plans are monitored by subcommittees as part of an ongoing dialogue. theoretically, at least, geopolitical considerations should play no part, but in fact realpolitik usually prevails in practice. who, for instance, would dare threaten the same degree of sanctions against the people’s republic of china, as mentioned by my colleague mr belder, over its serious lack of human rights and democracy as we did against uzbekistan? that is my case. (applause)
madam president, this excellent report by ms valenciano martínez-orozco brings together, in a comprehensive fashion, parliament’s analysis of the potential, but also unfulfilled potential, of the eu human rights dialogue. we demand action from the council, sadly absent this evening. the eu’s human rights strategy will never achieve optimum results without being organised in a systematic and coherent way, and without transparency and periodic review. of course our credibility on human rights depends on practising what we preach. how can we urge countries like jordan, egypt, libya, morocco or algeria to end torture, when we know that the united states subcontracted torture to them and that european countries colluded with that? instead of being credible, we become hypocritical. our own house must be cleaned. the silence of the council, since our report in february on extraordinary rendition, does not go unnoticed. one of the strongest dialogues we should be having is with like-minded countries, and i therefore welcome paragraphs 115 and 116, which urge the eu to seek syllogies and share experiences while addressing human rights concerns with the us, canada, japan and new zealand. but, in the last six years, while concerns about the war on terror have been shared by most european citizens, we have had no robust action by the eu to secure transatlantic respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. of course, i am not saying the us is the worst human rights defender in the world. but it could be the model for human rights excellence and the tragedy is that the eu is not urging it in that direction. the council’s torture guidelines say the eu will make démarches and issue public statements urging relevant third countries to undertake effective measures against torture and ill-treatment. what démarches? what public statements about abductions, torture, guantánamo bay? there is just embarrassed silence. perhaps an article in this week’s economist magazine gives a clue. headlined ‘czechs with few mates’, it explains how the czech republic, in its three years of eu membership, has earned a reputation for promoting human rights at every turn. great! right on! let us cheer! however, reading on, i learn that inside the brussels foreign policy machine, such concerns are an irritant. eu diplomats apparently describe the czech republic as ‘out on a limb’, even ‘unprofessional’ – no doubt the most disdainful insult in the diplomat’s armoury. silly young czechs! they believe the rhetoric about the eu being a human rights community. they thought articles 6 and 7 of the eu treaty, setting out our values of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law, were there actually to be acted upon! but the old cynics in the foreign and commonwealth office or the quai d’orsay will put them right. i am on the side of the czech foreign minister, karel schwarzenberg, who sees no contradiction between being a friend of america and a critic of its human rights breaches. he opposes both the american trade embargo on cuba and guantánamo bay. ‘i am against guantánamo because i think it is a violation of human rights’, he says crisply.
madam president, i have to say that this was not an easy report to wade through. it was excessively long and duplicative, but it deals with an important subject. i am a staunch defender of genuine human rights. but i must confess i have difficulty with the extension of the concept to cover just about every conceivable aspect of human activity: social, environmental, economic and cultural rights, to name but a few that are repeatedly referred to. nevertheless, the abuse of human rights throughout the world has never received as much attention as it does today, but paradoxically this has not led to change for the better in many countries where the worst abuses take place. the eu has an important role to play in promoting the rule of law and respect for human rights, but its habit of flouting its own rules does nothing to encourage reform among the worst regimes. in this regard i think especially of zimbabwe and burma, in relation to which the eu’s own travel ban and targeted sanctions have been ignored on spurious grounds on several occasions. and we wonder why our measures are ineffective and tyrants laugh at us! many african countries have not responded to their obligations to deliver good governance. it is not surprising if there is no strong message on this from eu interlocutors. for years now we have tried to get other african countries to join with us in bringing about change for the better in zimbabwe, but to no avail. meanwhile, that country plunges into economic chaos and millions of its people are left starving and destitute under mugabe’s arrogant dictatorship. it now seems there is a possibility that the eu will again break its own rules and invite mugabe or other banned zimbabwean ministers to the eu-africa summit in lisbon in december. i wrote to the prime minister of portugal about this on 3 july. i have not yet received a reply. as the council is not here at the moment, perhaps the presidency could find out what it intends to do on this subject? i hear from a report yesterday that ms ferrero-waldner, the commissioner for external relations, has said that maybe they would invite the foreign minister instead of mugabe! well, he is banned as well; he is number 83 on the banned list. so could we actually be told what is going to happen in this regard?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i regret that this is one of those occasions when i am delighted that parliament has so few powers in this field, especially as there is a real possibility that this report might be carried in the vote tomorrow. if so, it may well be that some people will say, ‘well, parliament has called on the commission to look again at its proposals’. i would not like that public relations gesture to be made; i want the commission to know that there are at least some meps who thoroughly disagree with what is being proposed here. the commission’s report back in 2006 was weak – motherhood and apple pie stuff, frankly – and was hardly worth putting on paper. there were plans, plans and plans being proposed but precious little by way of action. however, what is being proposed here by the rapporteur – by parliament – is, to my mind, even worse. i look at one paragraph in particular: ‘considers that the time is not ripe to propose the introduction of a maximum sustainable yield [msy] system’. apparently, we need more analysis. so, while the commission wants plans, we simply want more talk about plans. when is something going to get done? if this is carried tomorrow by parliament, then i hope the commission will disregard it entirely because i regard this as completely irresponsible. there is a question, a legitimate question, about the methodology to be applied in achieving the status of msy. frankly, we know what is needed; this is just playing with words half the time. if two thirds of the fish stocks are being fished beyond safe biological means, then you have to stop the fishing; you have got to put the fleets on the side, you have got to put fishermen out of work, perhaps with compensation, until such time as we have restored the stocks and given everyone the chance of a long-term, healthy future. you have got to allow the fish stocks to recover. frankly, we can debate the details of how we achieve perfection in msy status when we have got the fish and the long-term security of having that fish firmly secured. commissioner, i have the highest respect for you; ever since we first met, i have liked what you have said. may i say two things? first of all, i think your profile is too low; i think your cabinet keeps you in meetings in the back room. i think europe needs a champion for its fish and, just as you need to sort some problems out, you also need to be in front of europe’s television cameras saying what needs to be done. the second thing is this: you are three years, now, into a five-year term. there have been lots of good ideas, not enough delivery. i would like you to be a significant chapter in the european union’s history over the deplorable common fisheries policy and its reform. so please, stop thinking of yourself as a footnote and get out there and make things happen! five years ago, i was at johannesburg, where the european union signed up to the principle of securing maximum sustainable yield status by 2015. we were not talking about introducing a policy by 2015; we were talking about getting the fish up to those levels by 2015. it should not have been just a piece – it has to be more than that. if we are to do that, in eight years, it will probably be already too late. we have got to start having delivery, and, every day until that happens, you have to consider yourself a failure. do not listen to parliament; do not listen to the ministers who try and block you all the time – just start delivering.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, it is not often that a member of the uk independence party congratulates a rapporteur in this house. in this case i will make a rare exception. the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations has estimated that the catch of 70% of fish species on this planet has already reached or exceeded maximum sustainable yield (msy). the common fisheries policy, with the disgraceful problem of discards that results from it, has made a major contribution to what is potentially a grave ecological disaster, especially in the north sea. in the 1980s, the canadian government was warned by fishermen that cod was being dangerously overfished. the government ignored the warnings and, by 1992, the cod fishery totally collapsed. a similar situation now seems to be evolving in european waters. the rapporteur refers to deficient analysis and inadequate solutions offered by the commission’s communication, which she goes on to describe as simplistic. the commission has recently been criticised for the way it gathers and interprets statistics on maritime issues. in a recent briefing, the british government refers to ‘an absence of necessary data on what the appropriate targets should be’. the commission’s interpretation of msy is based on outdated models and dogmatic ecological concepts. it clearly demonstrates the desire to gain further competences at any cost. the loss of our fishing stocks is too high a price to pay, and i thank the rapporteur for being honest in her condemnation of the commission’s communication. it surely says something when the europhile ppe-de group is echoing the ukip line. but then, everyone gets there sooner or later!
madam president, i welcome and support this report and commend the rapporteur on its production. we have had years of talk about sustainable fisheries, and as many years of bureaucratic controls. yet stocks in the main are no better, and fishermen are a lot fewer and a lot poorer. it is hard to escape the conclusion that fisheries policy to date has indeed been a hopeless failure. fishermen have been saying this for years, but until now the commission has not been listening – nor, it seems, has mr davies, who seems to want more of the same failure. total allowable catches (tacs) and quotas as the key instrument of control have been a disaster, generating the scandal of discards and, for many fishermen, nothing short of poverty. yet within the new proffered maximum sustainable yield model, we still have this flawed overlapping of the tac quota system with the fishing effort system. they must be disentangled. we cannot have both. we all want sustainable fisheries, but that means sustainability for fishermen too. it means discouraging discards. it means simplifying the technical measures, and it means embracing flexibility. let us get there as quickly as possible.
madam president, over the years i have not always agreed with our rapporteur, ms fraga estévez, but much of this report i can agree with. it says the community system has made controls difficult and encouraged discards. it says it welcomes the commission’s communication recognising that the existing fisheries management policy has failed. it notes that it will be difficult to apply the maximum sustainable yield model to multi-species fisheries, which certainly applies to most that scots fishermen are involved in. it notes that the model is unsuitable for pelagic species. i disagree with the words ‘eliminated discrimination’ and will be asking for a split vote tomorrow to take these out, because i know from past discussions with our rapporteur that this is code for an attack on relative stability which, for as long as we have a common fisheries policy, must remain. but i agree also with the commissioner’s comments earlier when he said that we must start to move in the right direction. after all the years of pain that has been inflicted directly as a result of the common fisheries policy, we should have been rather further forward by now.
madam president, few of us will dispute the importance of having long-term sustainability of commercial fish stocks. the eu signed up to the commitment made by the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in 2002 to reach maximum sustainable yield (msy) in fisheries by 2015 at the latest. it is vital that we open up the debate on how to achieve the goal of reducing fishing pressure on vulnerable species, and this report by ms fraga estévez is an important part of that process. the merits of fishing at low levels of fishing mortality and building up a more robust spawning stock were also considered in the net benefits report by the uk prime minister’s strategy unit. as a scot i am all too familiar with the pressures on vulnerable fishing stocks such as north sea cod, and all the more with the practical difficulties of applying management plans in mixed fisheries areas such as off the scottish coasts. the difficulties do not remove the obligation to act. i welcome the recognition by the commission of the need for stakeholder involvement and that regional advisory councils (racs) are included in the proposed process for taking this forward. some of the racs have already begun to consider long-term management and the issue of msy, and it will be important that the strategy is developed in partnership with stakeholders. at this stage we should not get too side-tracked by discussing the technicalities of what msy actually is and how it should be applied. a more important focus is bringing fishing opportunities into better balance with available stocks for a more sustainable future.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. – mr president, i would like to start, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, by thanking ms patrie for her cooperation and work together on this report. clearly, the committee on legal affairs welcomes very much the green paper and is grateful that the commission has waited for parliament’s opinion. the word that runs through my committee’s opinion is coherence, and the need for coherence. we see this very much as part of the ‘better law-making’ agenda, which was discussed in this house earlier this week, but also as coherence across internal market legislation and across into the whole area of civil and commercial law, and contract law is very much part and parcel of that. i would have to start by saying that there are some of us who, in dealing with this matter in the legal affairs committee, have perhaps begun to regret the passing of what, in the previous legislative term, was our joint committee for legal affairs and the internal market. it is good that consumer affairs are now dealt with by the same committee, but it is perhaps a shame that we have lost that focus on the internal market and civil and commercial law. that clear focus has been somewhat fractured. in the past, we, as a parliament, have been very quick to condemn the commission for a lack of joined-up thinking, and we must not ourselves now be guilty of the same difficulty. that is why the committee on legal affairs is so clear that in dealing with this review we must keep an eye on the wider context of contract law and civil and commercial law as a whole. in that respect, i must of course refer to the work on the common frame of reference to do with contract law. much work has been done on that in the past and our committee hopes that much work will continue to be done on it in the future. that is absolutely essential to the opinion that we have delivered. the contract law project is at the heart of better law-making, and arguably this review of the acquis should be the jewel in that crown. they are inextricably entwined and, even if the member states are reticent about the whole of the contract law project, this parliament is not and will not be in the future, and looks to the commission to pursue that work together. of course, with consumer law, it is very difficult. we have all said that we want more harmonisation, and that seems to be the general tenor of the responses received. but consumer law needs to be very much accessible and understandable to our citizens for our internal market to work. both sides of the bargain need to understand their rights and obligations. in a national context, consumer law has grown up over the years, perhaps sometimes as a result of experiences at national level – often bad experiences, unfortunately – and also within a certain cultural context. that means that the consumer law that we all know in our national environment is a law that has some resonance between us and our citizens. it is accepted. people know what it is about. but how do we get that same resonance, that same understanding, that same accessibility at european level? that is what we have got to strive to achieve in any horizontal instrument if we are to give consumers across the internal market the confidence that they obviously currently still lack in order to use the internal market much more. now, it is also clear from what i have said that we are concerned, as a committee, that we make sure that the consumer acquis works together with other european law instruments, specifically private international law instruments like rome i. we cannot go on for ever having this battle about whose law shall apply. we need, therefore, to have the contract law project, the common frame of reference. we need a horizontal instrument, and we need to aspire to what some have called the ‘blue flag’ giving us european terms and conditions of trade and european consumer and contract provisions that will really make our internal market work.
mr president, as chair of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i welcome today’s important debate as a first step in reviewing europe’s consumer policy and, i believe, in renewing our commitment to our consumers. we are very grateful for the work that our rapporteur, ms patrie, has carried out. as has been mentioned several times, this is a timely debate, given announcements made in the summer and again this week for a recall of dangerous products from china that were sold bearing the ce mark – fooling our consumers into believing that such products are safe and meet eu standards. the focus of our debate today and the central objective of our consumer policy must be the protection of consumer safety and health – particularly as regards vulnerable consumers and children. we have to ensure that consumers have rights and remedies when something goes wrong. i want to use this debate to stress the importance of enforcement, as ms thyssen has. the fact is that we have laws on our statute books, but member states are not demonstrating sufficient commitment to transposing these laws. long delays are denying consumers their rights. where consumer laws have been transposed, enforcement is often patchy and haphazard. the rapex report, in the case of the notification of dangerous products, shows that not all member states are participating in the notification system. there is an increased awareness of product safety by both business and national authorities, but more action, commissioner, is required. recalling dangerous chinese toy imports can only be the last resort. we have a general product safety law, we have a toy safety law but we need to step up enforcement and inspection regimes. this is the only way to ensure that consumers have genuine and effective protection. that is why, commissioner, i want to encourage you to set up a consumer scoreboard as a tool to report on member states’ activities in the consumer protection field and to help us, as elected representatives, to follow up on weak enforcement and delayed transposition. finally, commissioner, i want to thank you for coming to me directly, as chair, to discuss the issue of the safety of toys. i want to pledge the support of our committee to work with you to crack down on the import of dangerous toy products, to get tougher controls at our borders to intercept these products, to obtain stronger national inspection and enforcement regimes, to ensure that products do not get on the shelves in our shops and, of course, to have joint action with the us to force china to raise its production standards to meet eu safety standards. this review, i believe, is a chance for the eu to demonstrate our commitment to european consumers and to offer the highest standards possible – and, indeed, for europe to be a beacon of consumer protection for the rest of the world.
mr president, i welcome very much the work done by ms patrie and my colleagues on the committee in producing an extremely well-balanced and clear report for the commission. i am sure that is really going to help ms kuneva move forward as quickly as possible with the proposal for the first stages of the so-called ‘horizontal directive’. i particularly want to thank ms patrie for her contribution to this. i have worked with her in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on consumer protection issues for many years. she has great expertise, which i think has worked through in this. i am sorry we will not be seeing quite so much of her, but this report shows her commitment to this area. i also want to thank the commissioner for her energetic promotion of consumer protection and the profile she is giving to this. mrs mccarthy referred specifically to issues surrounding products and toys. they are not part of this debate, but we will have a chance to discuss them with the commissioner at the committee meeting next week. i want to mention a previous piece of work we were all involved in that has not been mentioned so far, which is the unfair commercial practices directive. that was a landmark piece of consumer protection legislation, because, for the first time, it set out the harmonised rules on unfair commercial practices to be applied across the european union. in many countries, that whole area of dealing with unfair practices was not really developed at all in national legislation. a number of colleagues have referred to the issue of compliance, and let us not forget that is a foundation which is still being transposed in many member states, including the united kingdom. so we have to keep the pressure up on this, along with the follow-up to the green paper. i want to highlight the fact that the commissioner has a clear direction from this parliament, which i am sure she will have in the vote today, to move quickly on the horizontal directive – we have clear agreement on that. there are, clearly, other areas we wish to debate, particularly the issue of cost and compliance with different standards in different markets. let us not forget that, on the one hand, we want to ensure consumer confidence – as the commissioner highlighted in her speech – and for consumers to feel that they have a well-developed set of rights that are really meaningful. but, at the same time, we want to encourage innovative, new businesses to come and put products and services onto the market and not to be discouraged by the legal regime they are faced with. i have to say that on some of the issues – and i have raised this with the commissioner – that are being talked about in other areas, on the reform of rome i, for example, small businesses are extremely concerned about the potential costs of compliance with extensive requirements under 27 jurisdictions. if we provide high levels of consumer protection but we discourage companies from entering those markets, then we are not doing consumers a favour. that is the balance we intend to seek. i was delighted that the commissioner specifically mentioned that mutual recognition will be an important part of this. on the unfair commercial practices, we argued for an internal market clause and it was voted through. we have been entirely consistent for this side. that is part of the balance that we seek and i am confident that we can achieve it.
in writing. i am supporting this joint resolution regarding the un convention to combat desertification and the ongoing meeting in madrid. as we know desertification affects 20-30% of the world’s land area and 1.2 - 2 billion people – many of whom are in deep poverty – in at least 100 states. as a consequence of climate change and human intervention with deforestation and over-farming, more and more of the world is becoming a desert. the consequence is increased poverty, forced migration and conflict. one most graphic example is darfur, where desertification has driven a complex conflict between pastoralists and farmers, as the farmers have been driven eastwards onto the land of the latter with the generation of hundreds of thousands of refugees, rapes, mayhem and murder. only strong and urgent international action can stop darfur from being the first of many more similar conflicts, whose underlying cause is desertification.
in writing. desertification is a serious problem affecting many parts of the world and it is important that the problem is addressed globally. failure to act will cause serious problems for many people, particularly in the developing world, which is why it is right that the united nations, with our support, should act now. i shall be voting in favour of the joint resolution but i hope that this is the start of a process to address this problem, and that in years to come we are not regretting our lack of action when the opportunity to act was given to us. desertification is a disaster that we must avoid; this resolution is a first step. we, as the european union, must take the lead in reversing this trend.
in writing. i supported the resolution in order to press for further action to address this growing problem. in particular, i am afraid that the issue is hidden from many in the ‘developed’ world, because the effects are often in the ‘underdeveloped’ world. darfur is an example whose underlying cause is a conflict brought about through desertification.
in writing. i supported this report, which calls on the commission and council to ensure a greater degree of coherence in the eu's human rights dialogues with third countries. in particular, i support the call for more involvement of the parliament on the content of ongoing dialogues, and urge the use of more stringent criteria and monitoring mechanisms.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i had the privilege almost a decade ago to visit aung san suu kyi under house arrest in rangoon, when she made it absolutely clear that the way forward that she saw for burma was for the eu to impose rigorous sanctions against the regime. ten years on, little has changed. our sanctions are ineffective. she is still imprisoned and, as we have seen, the economy continues to deteriorate. i welcome the statement by gordon brown last week that he would take a lead in action against burma, and i welcome, in our resolution, paragraph 10, which recognises the important role that asean is now playing with respect to burma, paragraph 14, demanding that china, russia and india use their best endeavours to put pressure on the current regime, and paragraph 20, calling for a new un security council resolution. that is the only way we can strengthen the global response to try and put pressure on the regime to finally buckle and bend.
author. – mr president, bangladesh is a country that i have visited many times and one of which i am very fond. indeed, i have many friends of bangladeshi origin in london and i follow the political situation there very closely. this resolution acknowledges that the situation has deteriorated significantly in recent months, such that there are now real concerns about law and order, human rights and, indeed, the mere survival of democracy in that country, which is highlighted throughout this resolution. when the electoral process was suspended in january, i think most of us hoped it would just be a matter of weeks before elections could take place, but the weeks have become months, and months have now become years, before a new democratically-elected government can be in place. in the mean time, we have the unconstitutional and unsatisfactory situation of a civilian caretaker government with the support of the military trying to keep law and order in an increasingly desperate and violent climate. two former prime ministers are in jail. there have been riots at the university, hundreds of arrests (including of academics) and allegations of assaults and torture. this cannot be the way forward and, as paragraph 11 makes clear, i am sure we in the european parliament stand ready to help and assist to bring the return of democracy to bangladesh as soon as possible.
author. – mr president, like my colleague robert evans, i also represent, in london, our region, over 150 000 constituents of bangladeshi origin. bangladesh is a large and strategic south asian country, and once again regrettably is in the news with the august student demonstrations and the arrest of three former prime ministers in a process aimed at combating corruption, but unfortunately and perversely having the appearance of attempting to stifle the democratic, albeit deeply divided, political classes. the caretaker government has reassured the eu and the usa that it will proceed to democratic elections at the end of 2008, once the electoral registration process is completed and robust enough against electoral fraud. however, the timescale appears very long, and there are suspicions that the military, whose profile politically has recently risen, are keen to radically alter the political complexion of the country by removing from circulation the two warring protagonists, ex-prime ministers sheikh hasina and khaleda zia. it is difficult to understand why they are not released on bail pending trial, and furthermore why the initial arrests were so melodramatic and lacking in due process under the emergency powers – which this resolution rightly calls for to be lifted, as well as calling for eu diplomatic observers to be present at the two ladies’ trials. certainly, western aid donors are watching bangladesh very carefully, given the concerns about the deteriorating human rights situation over the last few years and also increasing islamist radicalisation of its society and a departure, very sadly, from its original course of secular multi-party democracy – a model we in the eu should strongly continue to support for that country.
mr president, did you take my oral amendment to add the name of the third former prime minister, mr moudud ahmed, to the original text? it should have been taken first. it was a technical adjustment. i am not sure whether the voting order precluded doing so, but it should have been taken first in my view, and then the split vote.
thank you. in the absence of mr agnoletto, can i move the oral amendment to paragraph 6 on his behalf? i think people will have it on their voting lists, but in case they don't, it reads 'invites the commission to ensure continuing funding of both core and non-core activities of the special court in the forthcoming national programmes with sierre leone; invites the authorities of sierra leone to consider transitional justice and the independence of justice as a priority'.
mr president, we do appreciate your kind words about nicholas bethel. his death a fortnight ago has led to many tributes from across the political spectrum. as we debate the issue of human rights, something that presses upon us now as it always has, we should remember his enormous efforts. we remember, and we are proud of, his award of the schuman medal in 2003, when, despite the ravages of his ill health, he delivered a moving and eloquent speech to members of our group. for many people, his championing of the cause of both nelson mandela and andrei sakharov is something we should not forget. a letter was written by elena bonner, the widow of andrei sakharov, to nicholas bethel’s family a few days ago, in which she recognised that, without his help, the cause of sakharov and many other dissidents in the then soviet union – and the nature of the repressive regime – would not have been properly recognised outside. on behalf of the british conservative delegation, i am proud to deliver a tribute to a courageous man. those of us who attended his funeral in london on thursday saw and heard for themselves the immense pride and affection in which he was held by so many friends and colleagues outside as well as inside the political world. our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this time. it was a privilege for me and for many of my colleagues in this parliament to have served with him, a man of such distinction and humanity. (applause)
mr president, i rise on an issue of an animal disease, blue tongue, which has spread through europe – through france, germany, luxembourg and belgium; and now we have one case in the uk. it is a difficult disease to find and it is a difficult one to diagnose, and the long-term solution is a vaccine. i recommend to this parliament, the commission and the council that we do everything in our power to get a vaccination in place, because this disease has killed over 1.8 million cattle and sheep in the last 10 years in europe. so we need to do something about it seriously. i would urge you to put all pressure on the commission, the council and this parliament to get a vaccine available.
the next item is the report by britta thomsen, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on a road map for renewable energy in europe (2007/2090(ini)) (a6-0287/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, may i thank the rapporteur for the excellent work she has done on this report. renewables have been part of the energy mix in europe and part of european energy policy for a number of years and this report very usefully highlights why they have not yet expanded to their full potential. one of the problems has been access to the grid. we have a distribution network for electricity which was designed to be one-way and now requires technical adjustments in order to become two-way and be able to handle decentralised electricity generation. member states should be doing more to get rid of the technical and administrative barriers currently hampering the expansion of renewable electricity. the biggest potential from renewables exists at the two ends of the scale. on the one hand, we need a new commitment and investment in large-scale renewable energy projects such as offshore wind farms in northern europe, solar collectors around the mediterranean and tidal barriers. at the same time, at the other end of the scale, we need to maximise use of renewables at a domestic level – technology such as solar thermal, photovoltaic panels, heat pumps and biomass heating. i particularly welcome paragraph 38, which stresses the need for compulsory use of renewable technologies in all new and renovated buildings. it is time for a major revision of the energy performance of buildings directive, not least because the renewables roadmap needs to be considered hand in hand with the eu’s action plan on energy efficiency. the binding target of 20% eu energy from renewables by 2020 is much more likely to be met if we succeed in cutting total eu energy consumption. the way to cut carbon emissions is to have renewables as an increasing element of a decreasing energy requirement. on the question of biofuels, i would emphasise the absolute necessity for all biofuels, whether imported or produced in europe, to satisfy sustainability criteria in respect of net co2 savings, biodiversity protection, water resources and effects on food production. but i think we should accept the commissioner’s reassurances and continue to support the 10% biofuels target. in december, though, we will need to look very carefully at the commission’s proposals to make sure that they meet the strict sustainability criteria parliament is demanding. finally, this roadmap for renewable energy should not just be a roadmap for europe. by supporting investment in renewable energy technology in the developing world, we can achieve two crucial objectives. first, much-needed growth can be achieved without the cost to the planet of increased carbon emissions and, secondly, developing countries can achieve, through renewables, a degree of energy independence and energy security. they can be sheltered from the fossil fuel price shocks which have ruined so many developing economies in the past.
mr president, may i first commend ms thomsen on the work and commitment that she has put into this report. mr president, you will not mind me reminding you that we come from a party that thinks ‘green’ but votes ‘blue’, and that leads me to a general statement that we are all in favour of renewables as a general principle. however, we support realistic, achievable renewables, not expensive subsidies for unattainable targets. and it has to be said that this year the commission and the council have set some very ambitious targets. i want to reflect a little on the dilemma posed by large-scale hydro or tidal schemes, or a massive shift into biomass energy crops, because each has advantages, but each also has environmental implications and costs. for example, in the region i represent, the severn tidal power proposal has huge potential for electricity generation but an equally huge cost. the last estimate was eur 20 billion, which is quite a lot to anybody. that cost is justified, however, partly by co2 emissions saved and partly by flood damage prevented, and the value of the electricity generated is only a small part. then we have to consider the huge environmental impact of such a scheme on the bristol channel and its associated features such as the severn tidal bore, a special feature, and the surrounding wetlands. so it seems to me that there is a dilemma, a conflict between the two interests, and the same applies to converting a lot of land to produce miscanthus or other energy crops. we must be realistic about legislating for binding targets which cannot or will not be met. we in the european union have a long record of adopting admirable targets and then failing to achieve them. if we continue in this vein, we risk bringing the legislative process into disrepute. if we adopt regulations requiring changes in people’s behaviour, then it seems to me we must will the means, either by providing enough time for change or by fiscal incentives in combination with a regulatory stick. finally, let us not forget the huge potential of energy efficiency; but that is for another debate.
mr chichester, i think you failed to hear when the commissioner quoted extensively from gordon brown’s speech to the labour party conference today or else you were otherwise occupied, but we were very much fascinated by this intervention.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, harmonisation of railways across 27 states has very little attraction to the uk. competition may be good for commerce, but you can leave us out, as we will deal with the economics of running our own service. if the standardisation process necessarily involves change of track widths, widths of platforms or changes of voltage on electrified lines, as it will in some parts of the eu, then good luck to you all, but leave us out. such is the magnitude of legislation from this place on railways that we will be surprised if a private operator can be found who can jump through all the hoops at anything like economic cost. we have only one rail link with the continent and this passes through a very useful tunnel. bearing in mind that we are all being railroaded by these directives due to one single tunnel, it may lead some to say that the channel tunnel should be concreted up in the middle and the british and the french could then use their respective halves for the safe storage of nuclear waste. this would eradicate the expensive need to harmonise a rail link to the uk, as no rail link would exist. please try to control the endless stream of directives from this place. or, to put it another way, railways run on sleepers; what a pity this place does not run on similar lines.
mr president, yesterday my committee had an extraordinary meeting in order to examine the commission proposal and the request to treat this proposal as urgent. my committee agreed that the request for urgent procedure should be approved. it was approved unanimously. the commission is proposing to set a 0% rate of compulsory set-aside for 2008. this proposal must be adopted as soon as possible – that is, before the end of this month – in order to allow farmers to take their decisions for growing crops on set-aside land in 2008. the land concerned must be brought back to production because a poor 2008 harvest combined with 10% set-aside will expose the internal market to potential serious risks. the cereal market at the beginning of the marketing year 2007/08 is characterised by historically high prices both at community and world level. the 2007 harvest will probably remain close to last year’s level and will lead to further reductions in the eu of private cereal stocks by the end of the 2007/08 marketing year. at global level, closing stocks in 2007/08 are expected to fall to an historically low level, especially in major exporting countries. in this context, a normal 2008 harvest will trend yields, and the proposed derogation for set-aside in 2008 in the european union would allow for a partial rebuilding of the private stocks, so i ask for urgency.
mr president, i should like to thank ms batzeli very much for her report. i should also like to thank mr deß very much for shadowing this report for the ppe-de group. i think it was margaret thatcher who once said ‘you can’t buck the markets’, and the problem with the whole sugar regime is that it is exactly what we have tried to do over the years. i commend the commissioner and what she is doing, because it is a very complex situation and one that we need to sort out. we need to take more sugar out of the system and we need to make europe much more competitive in sugar production. the whole thrust of cap reform now is to give support to farmers for environmental reasons, but also very much to push them in the direction of producing for the market place. i think that the reform of sugar this year is perhaps going to be easier than in previous years, for the simple reason that we have now seen cereal prices three times what they were last year. therefore, some sugar producers will perhaps decide that they will take the money in the restructuring and that they can grow cereals or oilseed rape and they can make a good living from that. because, whatever we do with sugar, we have to be sure, as i said, that we move in the direction of reducing the amount produced in europe – but we must still allow the farmers to have a living from the land. we also have to consider not only balancing sugar production in the european union, but the fact that there are acp countries from which we import sugar. in my own country, the united kingdom, tate & lyle imports over one million tonnes of sugar. it is very concerned to make sure that it can get access to this sugar at the same time as we are reducing and reforming the sugar regime. i would ask the commissioner to look sympathetically at that side of the argument as well.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, there is a japanese saying (and i emphasise ‘japanese’ rather than ‘chinese’ in the context of this question): ‘a problem is a mountain of treasures’. i think mattel’s problem has really focused attention on the important work that we do in this house, particularly my fellow members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on what is traditionally seen as rather a dry subject, one that concerns product regulation, market surveillance and conformity assessment. well, the public know why it is important now and i hope they will continue to focus on it. i want to thank the two commissioners for coming here today, but perhaps remind them first of all that an oral question was tabled, which they have, i think, anticipated and have covered most of our questions, but i also think we are a bit ahead of them. you will see the resolution tomorrow that we will vote on, which takes a broad view about product, and particularly toy, safety in the global context. there are a number of points addressed to both commissioners. i am pleased that commissioner verheugen has confirmed to us that the toys directive will be here towards the end of the year, something that we have been asking for. i am pleased he has lifted the lid a bit on some of the thinking, but we invite him to perhaps share a bit more of that with us. we have not been entirely clear which direction he is going in. he is talking, perhaps, about some differentiated standards for particular areas. i would merely caution him about that. i am not entirely convinced, for example, that a toy containing a microchip is any more dangerous than a bicycle, but i let him ponder on that. let me just emphasise some of the points that we want to look at. first of all, the big disappointment this morning is that there is no one from the council here. and they have a crucial role to play, as we know, in product conformity and assessment. secondly, i agree with the assessment of both commissioners that the manufacturers and producers have to bear the brunt of the responsibility for managing a supply chain where they do quality checks and they ensure that they are producing consistently high standards of product. finally, i think consumers are entitled to more and better information. i cannot understand why we are so reluctant to tell consumers where products are made. the council is sitting on a proposal in selected areas at the moment. i think that the toy industry must really look seriously at a proper toy safety mark that it develops and manages itself so that consumers really have that assurance that, when they come to buy toys this christmas, they will have safe, good quality toys.
madam president, it is indisputably right that mattel should have recalled these dangerous toys. but a number of pertinent issues arise. firstly, for all our consumer protection laws, it was not the eu or any eu agency which picked up on the danger, but rather the parent us manufacturer. does that not tell us something important about the efficiency and the reliability of our own protections? secondly, we impose on our own indigenous industry, in all spheres, severe standards and demands, ranging from health and safety through to co2 emission. yet we throw open our doors to chinese goods which are the product of woeful production conditions, fall far short of what we require of our own factories and come from plants which belch out emissions as if there was no tomorrow. little wonder we have driven so much manufacturing to the far east! but, what i ask is, with what net global gain? in fairness to both the workers and the consumers of europe, it is time we brought some sense and order to our approach. if we had not decimated our own manufacturing industry by punitive regulation, then maybe now we would not be so dependent on china and its shoddy goods.
mr president, we live and work in a global market economy, and we cannot expect to put in place legislation which interferes with that. commissioner kuneva, i have nothing to say to what you have said. i agree totally with everything you have said – my congratulations; just make sure that it is implemented. as far as commissioner verheugen is concerned, i am sorry to say that the buck does stop somewhere, and it is all very well for the commission to continue to pass the responsibility on to member states, or whatever, but in actual fact you have to implement the legislation that is put in place by this parliament. i believe, therefore, that it is the responsibility of your department to ensure that the products that come into the european union are at least as safe as the products that we produce within the european union. i say to ms breyer, a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who quite rightly talks about legislation: there is little point in putting in place legislation in the european union if all we do is import products which do not meet the same standards that we are putting forward within the european union. we have put in place, for example, legislation on barometers. how many children eat barometers? and yet we stopped barometer production. about 10 minutes ago, we stopped the production of sugar in the european union, and say we have to support tate & lyle, which imports it. we have things like foot-and-mouth and blue tongue coming into the european union because we live in a global market, and yet we are not enforcing the legislation at the port of import sufficiently to ensure the safety of the products. we do live in a global market, and the last thing i want is to see legislation that is trade defensive. we have to accept the fact that products are going to come in from the rest of the world, but they must be of the same standard. i want to ensure the safety of my constituents – the children, the grandchildren of the people that have elected me – when they go to buy their christmas toys to ensure and guarantee that they are not going to die from some lead paint. i leave you with one last thought. as a farmer, i have seen the effects of lead paint that cattle have licked off, that has been there for years, and it just kills them in a very slow and nasty way. ensure and guarantee, commissioner, that my children, my grandchildren and those of my constituents are safe.
mr president, one of the first speeches i made in this house 23 years ago was on the then proposal for a toy safety directive. i welcome the plans now to strengthen that directive. but let us make it clear: the mattel problem would almost certainly be with us with or without a strengthened toy safety directive. i believe we need three courses of action, which other colleagues have mentioned this morning. firstly, we have to push manufacturers to take a greater interest in their supply chain and, if necessary, apply penalties to those who do not take that interest. secondly, we need the commission to bring together the member states to ensure tougher inspections in europe, to ensure adequate customs control and to ensure the application of the existing european union laws. with china, we know that it does not respond to health and safety concerns, but it does respond to economic threats. we should consider banning the use of the ce mark on all products from china until it establishes a clearly independent, high-quality accreditation and testing centre or centres in china. only then can we have some confidence in the goods that are coming from china, and only through such action will china respond.
in writing. – the recent recall of millions of toys by us manufacturer mattel, over safety concerns, including lead content, has raised alarm bells world-wide. this issue is a concern to all, because public health and safety is at stake. an updated directive is critical to protecting our domestic interests, and children’s health. i call on the commission to take action on the problem of dangerous products and consider an alternative regulatory approach. chinese authorities must take appropriate action to improve their standards of production, but equally important is the duty of toy companies, who order products from the far east in order to benefit from lower costs, to ensure that safety standards are met. product safety is a matter of public health and this issue needs immediate attention.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, i do not believe it is right to take this back to committee. i think we want to make the decision. we need to get on with the restructuring, and so i would not want to bring this back to committee, and i am afraid i am against what mr graefe zu baringdorf wants to do.
in writing. i supported this report on the conciliation agreement on regulation of the rights and obligations of rail passengers. this was originally intended to apply only to passengers on international journeys, and i am pleased that our views have been heeded, and that the rules will now include passengers on domestic journeys too. from 2009, a reasonable set of basic rights will apply, including the right to accessible transport for people with reduced mobility. in addition, i welcome the fact that a scheme of compensation in the event of delays will be introduced.
in writing. this report on rail passengers’ rights and obligations should be welcomed.
in writing. i will be voting for the compromise agreed by our rapporteurs with the council of ministers because i believe it is a step forward for the railway industry throughout the european union, and is the best deal available to parliament at this time. however, the slow pace with which the railway industry works is not only frustrating but also acts as a very effective brake on the kind of radical action that is required to galvanise railways in many of our member states. a wide gulf exists between the railways of say france and germany with those of bulgaria and romania. this gap needs to be closed if we are to be serious about developing a railway system that is clearly europe-wide. finally, whilst i welcome the agreement that all railways should be fully accessible within 15 years, is it not a sad fact and an indictment on our railway industry that many people of reduced mobility do not have access to their railway in the 21st century? the railway industry is caught in a philosophy of ‘can’t do’ rather than one of ‘can do’. i hope this package of measures at least moves us away from negativity and starts a more positive era for our railways. (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. i support the report on reform of the sugar sector, although there are some areas of concern with this report. i do not agree with the report in its intent to apply the process of withdrawal of sugar surplus to cane refiners. this is in contrast to the commission proposal to exclude cane refining from the withdrawal process. as the refiners are not directly part of the restructuring scheme, to reduce by withdrawal the refiners’ traditional supply needs (tsns) would have no effect on reducing the surplus of sugar on the eu market, because the eu would still have to meet its international obligation to import specified quantities of raw sugar from acp countries. the amendment would, however, tend to weaken the impact of the measure in providing incentives to beet processors to dismantle their plant.
in writing. i shall be voting in favour of the report that has been prepared by ms batzeli, because it is quite obvious that a restructuring of the sugar industry is required. my only concern relates to amendment 31, which, if passed, would still commit the european commission to keeping the existing fund open up to 2011, and would be a negative aspect of this restructuring process. this report, whilst not perfect, nevertheless strikes a balance between the needs of the producers and the obvious need to reform this sector. my only concern regards the effect any restructuring could have on sugar cane producers from developing countries. at all costs we must avoid a restructuring that protects beet producers at the expense of cane producers and i would hope that the commission will ensure that this does not happen, whilst still being fair to our own farmers.
in writing. when voting on agriculture reports such as this report on sugar, members with a financial interest should declare it or decline from voting.
in writing. i supported the thomsen report and strongly believe that more effort should be directed towards the promotion of renewable energy. my own country, scotland, has immense potential in the field of renewable energy and the scottish government has recently signalled its intention to promote as diverse a range of renewable technologies as possible. i believe that scotland's efforts have a vital role to play in the eu's targets for renewable technology. i voted against setting a 10% target for plant fuels, and in favour of calls for a full impact assessment before considering any possible biofuels target. biofuel production can accelerate global warming by speeding up the destruction of forests, peatlands, healthy soils and other ecosystems which are carbon sinks and which help to regulate the climate.
in writing. renewable energy in europe is an important issue, which, in my mind, does not get the recognition it fully deserves. in this era of energy crisis, global warming and diminishing stocks of the most traditional fossil fuels, it is right that parliament should examine a better use of renewable energy. however, i would also like to point out that we still have large reserves of coal throughout the eu and, with the development of clean coal technology, i pose the question whether or not our abandonment of coal, as a source of energy, was premature? i will support this report, but i think we must be realistic in what can be achieved with wind or wave energy, especially when matched up with the ever-increasing energy demands of the eu. i think it is right to ask the commission to draw up action plans involving renewable energy including wind, wave and solar power generation, as well as developing a strategy for biofuels. although in regard to this, we must ensure that we do not save the planet, environmentally, only to see its population starve to death, which is why the committee's call for a fair balance between food and energy production is a correct stance to take.
in writing. i can vote for this report and believe that its overall objectives are balanced against the back-drop of continued concern over energy security. renewables are an important aspect of our future electricity generation but still we need to work with existing energy production. if the eu can put its emphasis on the technology necessary to take it into the 21st century, it will also enjoy a competitive edge in this sector in the years to come.
the next item is the council statement on the implementation of the council decision on the moratorium against the death penalty.
thank you for clarifying that.
i have received five motions for resolutionsee minutes. tabled in accordance with rule 103(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 september 2007.
the next item is the council and commission statements on negotiations on an interregional association agreement with mercosur and the new bilateral strategic partnership with brazil.
mr president, the priorities of this house in trade negotiations are clear. firstly, we want a successful multilateral round. secondly, we want successful biregional arrangements and as a fall-back – but only as a fall-back – we look to improve bilateral arrangements. i have to confess that when i first heard about the priority given to the brazil strategic partnership agreement, i felt we were rewarding a country that has been one of our more awkward partners in the multilateral negotiations in the doha round. i also felt it would undermine mercosur, where, without brazil, there is no mercosur. however, having heard the council this morning, having spoken to my portuguese colleagues, i am convinced that there is a possibility that a successful strategic partnership agreement with brazil can make it easier in the doha round if we develop understanding between ourselves and a key doha player. it can make it easier to get a mercosur agreement if we find solutions to some of our more intricate economic challenges and of course a good agreement with brazil would signal to them that we support their domestic priority of tackling social exclusion and poverty. so i am not entirely convinced, but i am more convinced that an agreement between the eu and brazil is now a more desirable objective than it was a few weeks ago.
mr president, in the past i was a champion of eu-driven regional integration in latin america through preferential support for regional multilateral blocs, such as mercosur. but, regrettably, in spite of the closeness of its constituent countries (argentina, brazil, paraguay and uruguay) culturally, mercosur remains too weak politically compared to national interests, therefore impeding an eu-style single market in the region – although this, of course, should be our long-term objective. mercosur’s functioning is worsened by the recent decision by venezuela to join, with chávez’s anti-free-market rhetoric leading to even more protectionism in mercosur, whose talks with the eu have for some time now been stalled. therefore, i welcome the fact that the eu is instead championing a strategic bilateral partnership – as agreed this july – with brazil, which is an economic giant, but one whose share of global trade is still small in comparison to other developing countries, precisely because brazil has failed to sign profitable bilateral free-trade agreements, placing too much faith in mercosur. unlike mexico, which already has a deal with the eu and is the other dominant player in latin america today, chávez’s petrodollar generosity towards argentina has forced president lula of brazil to ignore mercosur issues and allowed president kirchner of argentina to further his protectionist stance. populist ecuador is also making noises now, joining mercosur in spite of joining the anti-us, venezuelan-led bolivarian alternative for the americas (alba) trade initiative. one recent spat between argentina and uruguay clearly demonstrates the lack of effectiveness of mercosur in resolving its partners’ differences over the pulp mill being constructed by an eu finnish company, botnia, on the banks of the river uruguay. president kirchner failed to stop the project, and at the same time antagonised his neighbouring country – and mercosur partner – uruguay by refusing to allow mercosur’s supranational institutions to arbitrate this dispute. instead, what did he do? he called in the king of spain to arbitrate.
the next item is question time (b6-0316/2007). the following questions are addressed to the commission.
question no 32 by richard corbett (h-0607/07) subject: respecting the specificity of sport does the commission agree that uefa’s ‘home-grown players’ initiative will encourage sporting solidarity and safeguard european football? what steps does the commission plan to take in order to respect the specificity of sport when framing legislative proposals and in interpreting existing eu law?
uefa’s rules requiring clubs to have a certain proportion of players that are locally trained and home grown is designed to make sure that clubs do not rely only on their financial muscle in the transfer market, but have to invest locally in their communities in training. it is a vital scheme. yet the commission, on this point in its white paper, has not come off the fence in saying that it is a scheme that is acceptable under the treaty and now, commissioner, you say it could be, if... – and you are still investigating. may i ask the commission, why is it taking so long? when will the commission be in a position to endorse this welcome scheme?
question no 33 by chris davies (h-0618/07) subject: biofuelswhen does the commission expect to adopt proposals for certification of crops intended for the production of biofuels, or of biofuels themselves, with a view to ensuring that eu demand for such products does not increase the rate of destruction of tropical forests?
would the commissioner agree that our record in controlling the import of timber from illegal sources is lamentable – simply dreadful? given this experience and the potential for corruption and falsification of documents that exists, how can we have confidence that any certification of biofuel crops will be valid? might we not end up making a bad problem worse?
question no 34 by brian crowley (h-0630/07) subject: the state of play in the wto talks can the european commission make a comprehensive statement as to the present state of play with regard to the wto process?
question no 35 by georgios papastamkos (h-0594/07) subject: doha round negotiations on agriculture what is the commission’s assessment of the progress of the doha round agriculture negotiations and the ‘offers’ by the eu’s negotiating partners? is it true that it is minded to make a larger offer – in comparison to the october 2005 offer – on behalf of the eu in the agriculture sector, primarily with regard to access to the market? at all events, has it carried out a study on the impact on the european agriculture sector? in the event of failure of the wto negotiations, what are the commission’s priorities at bipartite and (inter)regional level in the area of trade in agricultural products?
member of the commission. when the cap reform was agreed among the ministers in the council in 2003, it was the mandate that was given to the trade and agricultural commissioners. within this mandate we could negotiate. what we are now presenting – or what we will be presenting on 20 november – is the health check of the agricultural policy, and this is not a new reform. it is not a new reform and therefore it is not my perception that, whether or not we get a doha deal, it will have influence on what we are suggesting as the health check of the common agricultural policy. so it will not be influencing or moving the mandate that we have already got.
member of the commission. it is obvious that what we have experienced throughout the last few months in terms of the price increases in europe, especially as reported in the newspapers in germany throughout the summer break, has of course raised many questions. these are quite new questions on agricultural policy in europe, where we were previously fighting against overproduction, intervention stocks, and we are now in a much more balanced market, thanks, i think, to the decoupling of the direct payment to farmers, which allows farmers to react to the market instead of calculating the best outcome on the cheque from brussels. it is clear that in the doha round the préférence communautaire or the security of food supply is not in itself an issue. it is, of course, crucial to everybody round the world to be sure that they can feed their own people, but it is not exclusively a chapter in our negotiations.
in addition to expressing unease about yet further concessions damaging to our agricultural interests, can i ask you what focus there has been in the negotiations on raising beef production standards amongst those who seek greater access to our market, so that we might end the prejudicial impact on our own producers of permitting food imports where traceability and quality fall far below the standards that we expect of our own producers?
question no 36 is inadmissible as its author is no longer a member. question no 37 by ioannis gklavakis (h-0636/07) subject: amendment of the cmo in wine on 4 july 2007 the commission unveiled a proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine (com(2007)0372). funds for the 'national envelopes' are allocated according to a key which is based to 50% on the historical input of member states, 25% on area and 25% on production. moreover, adjustments have been made in favour of certain member states. will the commission say which criteria were used in the selection of the specific allocation key and why the funds are not allocated on the basis of the historical payments of member states over a representative reference period, as occurred in the case of all those cmos which have so far been amended? furthermore, given that the overall amount of resources is limited, how was it decided to adjust input for the benefit of some member states, which necessarily results in a corresponding decrease for the others?
as they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: question no 38 by katerina batzeli (h-0655/07) subject: payment of cap support for areas hit by fires the recent fires in greece had a disastrous impact on farming, particularly in the olive oil, fruit and vegetable and wine sectors, with serious consequences for the environment and the development of these regions, posing a major threat to the continuation of farming activity. how must the application of cross-compliance be redefined so as to ensure the legitimate payment of uniform decoupled aid to farmers affected? how will the implementation of the new com for wine be ensured in areas hit by fires, in particular as regards the commission's proposals for granting direct aid to wine-growers who use practices that respect the environment? what additional provisions and clarifications are required in the new regime for raisins so that immediate crisis-management measures can be implemented? is it possible to increase the resources for operational funds in order to finance such measures in the event of emergencies? is it feasible to create a specific national programme to support farmers with funding from the coms for fruit and vegetables and for wine? question no 39 by georgios karatzaferis (h-0661/07) subject: funding of non-governmental organisations and bodies for immediate reafforestation in greece greece recently suffered the greatest environmental disaster in its history. however, many greek environmental bodies and monasteries located on burned land possess the know-how and the scientists necessary to organise the rapid reafforestation of these areas by extensive planting operations. how can the commission provide funding directly to non-governmental organisations, monasteries, environmental bodies etc. (i.e. outside the framework of the third csf) so that they can immediately restore the environment in greece's forests which have been destroyed by fire? which community initiatives could be used for this purpose?
question no 40 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0601/07) subject: funding for research which sectors of research does the commission consider are lagging behind in funding provision under the plans for the programming period 2007 - 2013? what criteria determine the priorities for funding? how does assessment of the usefulness and effectiveness of the research that was funded under the sixth research framework programme influence the selection of new research projects? what criteria determine the priorities for funding in each research sector?
question no 41 by esko seppänen (h-0640/07) subject: iter project iter is an ambitious project that undoubtedly smacks of scientific serendipity: we can find things without knowing how to look for them. there are also many non-eu countries involved. have the partners to date handled their commitments, economic or otherwise, in the proper manner?
question no 42 by carl schlyter (h-0643/07) subject: nanotechnology nanotechnology is a new branch of technology which offers many opportunities but also involves increasing risks. according to the nano dialogue project, 48% of people in the eu want a moratorium on the use of nanotechnology in consumer products until its effects on humans and on the environment are known. what legislation is in preparation for the sectors in which products containing nano-materials are used and are already on the market, such as cosmetics, skin care products, medicines, cleaning materials and other consumer products? does the commission envisage a sector-specific approach or horizontal legislation on nanotechnology in consumer products?
questions 43 and 44 will be answered in writing. question no 45 by sarah ludford (h-0595/07) subject: london buses according to figures released by the greater london assembly in june, the so-called ‘bendy buses’ (long single-deckers with two carriages) found in many european cities and introduced in london in 2002, were involved in 1 751 accidents in 2006. this is 75% more than other types of bus, and represents an average of almost five accidents per day or more than five accidents per year for each ‘bendy bus’ in london’s fleet. given this clearly unacceptable situation, particularly in comparison with other types of bus, what steps is the commission taking to ensure that there are adequate safety measures for the operation of ‘bendy buses’ and that drivers receive the necessary level of training? how can they be considered safe enough for operation in crowded urban conditions?
i think my question is well-timed, as just today the commission has published its green paper on urban mobility. i cannot expect the commission to address my personal sense of loss that the iconic double-decker london routemaster bus has been replaced by these low-level continental-type ‘bendy’ buses (or ‘articulated’ buses, as the commission put it), but i am grateful for his reference to various pieces of eu legislation which ought to apply. could i ask him actually to make contact with the mayor of london and transport for london to investigate why these buses have a 75% worse accident rate than other buses, and to examine whether these directives are being properly applied in the uk, and specifically in london?
question no 46 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0598/07) subject: connecting bucharest, constanza and sofia to the european high-speed rail network one of the trans-european transport network’s 30 priority projects is priority axis no 22, which includes the following railway sections: athens-sofia-budapest-vienna-prague-nuremberg/dresden. romania is included in this project with the 480 km railway segment from curtici to brasov. given that since the accession of romania and bulgaria the european union has gained an outlet to the black sea and has increased its population by some 30 million inhabitants, i should like to ask the commission what steps romania and bulgaria have to take to connect the cities of bucharest and constanza, in the case of romania, and sofia, in the case of bulgaria, to the european high-speed rail network for passengers and goods?
question no 47 by bernd posselt (h-0600/07) subject: high-speed rail links paris-budapest and strasbourg-brussels what is the commission's opinion, following the basic agreements on the stuttgart 21 project, of the timetable for the construction of the individual sections of the 'magistrale for europe' from paris via strasbourg and munich to vienna/bratislava or budapest? what possibilities does the commission see for expanding this magistrale by a high-speed rail link between the three 'capitals of europe' strasbourg, luxembourg and brussels?
question no 48 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0606/07) subject: final judgment by the greek court on olympic airways (oa) in the discussion of my oral question h-0091/07 of 13 march 2007 on ‘the court decision offsetting debts of the greek state to olympic airways (oa)’, commissioner jacques barrot said: ‘the decision of the courts is a new aspect that we are analysing currently’. and recent reports in the greek press (3 june 2007) state that commissioner barrot, in his contacts with senior officials in the greek ministry of economy and finance during his most recent visit to greece, ‘allowed some margin for offsetting debts provided that progress was made with privatisation of oa’. what exactly is the commission analysing? is it considering whether the final judgment of the court of arbitration is in line with community law? can the commission confirm that it is negotiating on acceptance of the court decision provided that the greek authorities go ahead with privatisation of oa?
thank you, commissioner, and thank you for dealing with that last question. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
mr leichtfried, thank you for your comments. all i would say, in connection with the working party on the internal reform of parliament, is that conduct of question time is one of the issues that we are looking at very carefully, and your comments will be taken on board. (the sitting was suspended at 19.30 and resumed at 21.00)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, adding an institute of technology to stand with the existing universities sounds a good idea, but that is not what is on offer. it is proposed to set up an institution with the commission vetting the board, which then selects the knowledge and innovation centres with which it will at first work but which it will, in time, subsume unto itself. it will even issue qualifications bearing the eu logo, with no reference to the universities of which it has made use. surely, this is about innovation, but you do not get that by wishing it. especially this one, by encroaching on universities, will stifle enterprise, not promote it. if you want to encourage innovation, look to individuals coming through universities. look to individuals in the smes, and offer resources to help them develop and promote their ideas. if you are suggesting a network to enhance and spread ideas, do not bother. this community already communicates across the world. good ideas soon become international. for goodness’ sake, drop this attempt to harmonise universities and consider the value of the varying contributions made by these different institutions. if you have money to spare, use it to support innovators. they work alone or in concert with small teams. europeans like archimedes, newton, pasteur, ehrlich, röntgen, fermi, teller and watson-watt were brought on by no institute. they just needed time and space to think and conduct research.
mr president, here we go again: more posturing, another hubristic attempt to emulate america. the us has the dollar, so we must have the euro; the us has a gps system, so we must have galileo; the us has mit, so we must have eit. we have perhaps forgotten that mit is privately financed, not state funded, which is a key reason for its success. great academic institutions grow from the bottom up, not from the top down. they do not spring up from the ground fully formed at the stroke of a bureaucrat’s pen. no one questions the need for innovation and research in europe, but this is the wrong way to do it. state-imposed solutions will not work. the proposed eit will duplicate and conflict with existing eu programmes, like the framework programme for research, the competitiveness and innovation programme and the lifelong learning programme. this proposal exists outside the current financial perspective and its funding is by no means assured. no wonder that established and excellent academic institutions in europe are concerned that they may lose funding, they may lose key staff and they may lose research projects to the eit. i can well understand president barroso thinking of his legacy, but we must not let his legacy damage european universities and research facilities.
mr president, surely in modern politics one of the most difficult things for a politician to say — other than ‘i was wrong’ — is ‘let us stop and think again’. we could do with that in this debate. i am the first to acknowledge the hard work, in this house and in other places, that has gone into this proposal and into this report, and it is a matter of great regret to me that the end result really does not justify it. it is a great regret for me personally because i was initially very enthusiastic about this proposal. i myself sold it to our universities in scotland, to our smes, to various other parties, and i have watched the proposal become increasingly weaker, diluted, muddled, precarious and, increasingly, underfunded. surely, we all agree in this chamber that europe does not commercialise our research enough. we have agreed on the need to do something, but ‘we must do something; this is something, therefore we must do this’ is surely a bad logic, which will result in a bad, artificial, weak eu creation that will not achieve our hopes. so let us be brave and rip this up and start again, and innovate and research a better eit for europe’s future.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, this report is a serious, thorough and inspirational piece of work. the rapporteur has rallied support across the committee on foreign affairs but also across the other four committees that we have just heard from. in my view it will meet with widespread acclamation tomorrow, including my own support, and, i am very happy to say, that of my british colleagues. commissioner piebalgs, you went a very long way in your introduction to support the initiative that the committee chairman, mr saryusz-wolski, has raised with, as i say, a lot of innovation and skill, because, to many, there were challenges. i have two specific questions to which perhaps you might reply. you stated, in terms of one of our major suppliers, russia, that you look forward to a new agreement under the action plan. what is wrong with the old agreement that russia has actually signed, the energy charter, including the transit protocol? because, if our neighbours and suppliers, with whom we have mutual dependency, constantly renege on agreements, what confidence can we have in the future? we are looking for harmonious relations, but we have to defend our own corner and not merely agree with those who are in a supply situation. i disagree with ms ek in her reservations – perhaps she might listen – about the high official. it seems to me that mr saryusz-wolski is absolutely right in that we must have an institutional representative, whether it is yourself or whether it is, as we foresee, a double-hatted responsibility – both the commission and council. i disagree thoroughly with ms ek. this increases transparency, because parliament would have a direct contact in the vice-president of the commission role of this high official. could you dwell, in your reply, a little bit on this institutional issue, which seems to me to be extremely important and which parliament is going to stress very strongly?
madam president, when the eu talks of a common foreign policy on energy, you need to be very aware of exactly who you propose to do business with. president putin is on record as saying ‘the commission should be under no illusions. if it wants to buy russian gas, it has to deal with the russian state.’ gazprom is not a private company. it is a state-controlled tool of russian foreign policy. it is, moreover, in the hands of president putin’s political henchmen and, allegedly, organised crime. take, for example, alisher usmanov. this gentleman, the son of a communist apparatchik, is chairman of gazprom invest holdings, the group that handles gazprom’s business activities outside russia. he is the man we are doing business with. he is the man who cuts off gas supplies if client states dare to question gazprom’s demands. allegedly a gangster and racketeer, he served a six-year jail sentence in the soviet union in the 1980s, his eventual pardon coming at the behest of uzbek mafia chief and heroin overlord gafur rakhimov, described as usmanov’s mentor. usmanov bought the newspaper kommersant. three months later the journalist ivan safronov, a critic of the putin regime who just weeks earlier had been vigorously interrogated by the fsb, as the kgb is now called, mysteriously fell to his death from his apartment window, still clutching a recently purchased bag of shopping. according to craig murray, the former british ambassador to uzbekistan, it was usmanov who ordered the cutting off of supplies to georgia earlier this year. please take note, madam president, the kremlin has now refused to sanction the construction of a pipeline to the eu over georgian territory. these are the people you want to do business with. these are the people around whom you want to mould your foreign policy on energy. commissioner, good luck. you will need it.
member of the commission. madam president, i can tell you that the cereal market outlook is clearly at the forefront of our minds, as we are in a situation where the prices have shown unprecedented growth in the recent months. this is not only the case within the european union but all over the world. with too much rain in certain parts of europe and with droughts in other parts of europe, the climatic conditions within our own regions this year have been adverse to cereal production and, with an estimated output of 258 million tonnes, the 2007 harvest is below average. a compulsory set-aside of the present 10% in the old member states, the eu-15, is not compatible with the present market situation. against this background, the commission has proposed to set 0% on set-aside for the autumn 2007 harvest and the sowing in spring 2008. according to our estimates, this will mean extra production within the european union of between 10 and 17 million tonnes, and i think this will send a positive signal to the sector and, hopefully, also contribute to stabilisation within the grain sector. a rapid decision on this matter is clearly needed so that farmers can decide their next production year and, in this context, i am actually very thankful for the fact that parliament obviously understood the urgency of the matter and agreed to follow the fast-track procedure. i really am very grateful. finally, our legal proposal will be as short and as simple as possible and it will not imply any new administrative burdens. looking further ahead, it is necessary, within the health check, to take a good look at whether the set-aside is still an appropriate tool in the present and in the future market circumstances. we also need to consider how we can retain the environmental benefits within our set-aside system, such as maintenance of permanent pastures, the protection of riparian strips and measures that are also linked to climate change. so, thank you for a quick reaction. it is nice to see that parliament can really move when it is badly needed.
chairman of the agri committee. – madam president, commissioner, yes, parliament can move very quickly. of course, the thought that parliament could be blamed for the fact that farmers would not know what to plant on their land this year did concentrate our minds quite a lot, so we were delighted to work with you to be able to get to this firm decision. i also compliment my own committee, the committee on agriculture and rural development, on its unanimous decision. the points i would like to raise really is, what a difference a year makes! twelve months ago we were talking about eur 90/tonne for wheat. now we are talking about eur 250-270, so we are talking three times the price. now is the time, therefore, to look seriously at bringing set-aside down to 0%. i would even go further back than that. when you think that for 20 odd years now in europe we have been talking about food surpluses, farmers are not really needed, that we have to turn the land over to something else and that food security does not really matter. all of a sudden food security does matter. i think there is a moral argument here as well. when the world has plenty of food, then perhaps europe does not need altogether to do its share of production, but when the world is short of food and the prices go up, then europe is morally obliged to produce food. europe is never going to starve, whatever the price of food is, because we basically have money to pay for it, but many parts of the world will. all of a sudden we are in a different world and one that we must face up to. the commission is proposing a set-aside of 0% for 2008 and at the beginning of the marketing year 2008, like i said, the market is characteristically high in price. as the commissioner said, we have had droughts in some parts of europe and we have had floods in others. we also see, throughout the world, changing situations on grain, where in australia you have salt coming up through the land and it is becoming very difficult to plant. we are also seeing china and india taking in unprecedented amounts of food because of their economies increasing and wanting more food. all this is taking its toll on the wheat and cereal production throughout the world. we are now probably at about half the stocks that we historically have and stocks are getting low, so now is the time to do it. i believe, commissioner, and i am sure you do too, that if we have a common agricultural policy that is decoupled away from production, we cannot really have set-aside in many respects because, if ever there was a policy that was linked to production, then set-aside must be that, so now is very much the time to remove it. as we remove set-aside, we must remember that there have been some environmental benefits to it and we must remember, too, that farmers will have the choice now as to whether to plough up set-aside land or not. under single farm payment systems they could still carry on using it if they so chose, but the economic benefits of actually growing cereals will mean that many of them will plough the land. we can still have the six-metre strips around the fields and hedgerows on environmental means and i think that is also very good. it is not really something to be debated tonight, but i think, in the health check, one of the things we will deal with is that there is no doubt that we will have to move to second generation biofuels and not actually use wheat and oil seed rape for biofuels. again, a year ago i was very much in favour of that when prices were low, but now when prices are high we will literally only fuel that. i recommend to parliament that we deal with this swiftly. i thank all the groups for their support and i thank the commissioner very much for her speedy response. together i think we can come to the right decision. there are a few amendments here from the pse group and the verts/ale group, most of which we will be able to support. one, however, i cannot accept – and that is a tax on the export of grain, because farmers have suffered low prices in the past. as soon as prices rise, please do not actually put a tax on it because that would not be quite right in my opinion. if we are going to deal with market forces we are going to have to face up to the realities of life.
madam president, at a time of spiralling and punitive increases in feedstuff prices, which is so hurting our intensive sector, it would be criminal to lock out of production land capable of decreasing our reliance on foreign imports. thus set-aside must go and must go now. but more is needed, including a proactive plan to address the looming crisis in our intensive sectors. for my part, such must include hands-on pressure on the multinational supermarket chains to give up the pricing strategy which suppresses farm-gate prices. if this does not happen, we are facing wipe-out in much of our intensive sector. such would be the greatest failure of agricultural policy of our time and something, madam commissioner, which you must urgently address.
member of the commission. thank you, madam president, and i should like to thank the members very much for all the positive comments, for all the endeavours to stabilise our cereal market. i feel quite well equipped now to continue this discussion in the council tomorrow with the member states and i hope that the legal act can be published within a short period. i am quite sure farmers will be keeping an eye on us to see what decision will be taken here in parliament and in the council tomorrow. i shall just speak briefly on the four different groups of amendments. on the idea of extending this one-year 0% set-aside to two years, i must say that we will have the possibility of discussing the communication during the winter and the legal proposals next spring and summer, when we will have a clear idea of which direction we are moving in. so i will not be able to support the idea of extending the one-year period, but we will return to this issue. on the environmental benefits of the set-aside, it is obvious, as i said in my first intervention, that we will have to look into this in the health check to see whether we can find solutions to maintain the benefits of the environmental biodiversity issue in the set-aside. on the monitoring of the cereal market, it is obvious that we will do everything possible to keep up a strong dialogue with member states, stakeholders and the public at large to see in which direction the market is moving. on amendment 8 on export restrictions and the possible introduction of an export tax, i must say that this is not the way we want to follow. it will send totally different and wrong signals to the market. it will bring us into a situation similar to that of russia and ukraine, which we have both accused of using this tool to keep their production for themselves, and therefore this is not the way to follow. regarding the other idea that you mentioned on the import side, we will look – and we have actually started doing so already – into the suspension of cereal import duties. they do not fit with the present situation. a change of the entire policy, the stock policy, would, i think, be an option for us to discuss in the health check to find the best way to tailor-make solutions both to farmers and to cereal stakeholders, to the cereal sector. thank you, again, very much. i do really appreciate the enthusiasm with which parliament and the committee on agriculture and rural development have acted in this case.
in writing. – a serious situation has developed through rising grain prices throughout the european union which is being driven by high world prices. it is necessary that we have security in our food supply. we no longer have that. the cost of grain has continued to spiral upwards. this can only be dealt with through rising prices to the consumer. the australian government last week said that australian production this year will be down by 30%. we must have market access to cereal substitutes from the united states or the supply of beef, sheep and chicken meat will become more difficult. i call on the agriculture council and the eu experts to approve new cereals at a faster pace to guarantee us security of supply.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, what could better illustrate the need for a common european immigration policy than the case of the tunisian fishermen? everything about that tragic event – from the migrants on a rubber boat on the high seas, to the people smugglers who put them there and the authorities who jailed their rescuers – is testament to the failure of europe’s approach to migration. with every human tragedy, during a desperate do-nothing decade, liberals and democrats have asked one simple question: how many people must perish before governments see that lifting the drawbridge of fortress europe serves nobody’s interests? managing migration is as much in our interests as in the interests of those seeking our shores or prepared to die trying. while populism has propelled a policy forged in the furnace of fear, let us face the facts. fact number one: over the next 20 years, europe will lose 20 million workers – workers who staff our service industries and whose taxes fund services for our citizens. fact number two: national governments are deterring the people europe needs if we are to compete – indeed, to survive – in a cut-throat global market. eighty-five per cent of the best brains go to america and australia, put off by our bureaucracy, our bloody-mindedness and our barriers to free movement. fact number three: of those migrants who reach europe, only 3 in 20 are skilled; most are unskilled, desperate and dispossessed. commissioner frattini’s proposals address one half of this problem, building on ms hennis-plasschaert’s ideas for a european green card to fill the skills gaps. but his ‘blue card’ plan has its own gaps: no mention, for example, of the workers that we need in the catering, healthcare or tourism sectors. it could address economic and demographic challenges if accompanied by free movement of workers from the new eu member states, but it does little to counter the challenge of illegal migrants along our southern borders. let us make no mistake: the commission’s cosy calculation that we can take the best and leave the rest will not work. pushed by poverty, hunger, squalor and war, people will keep crossing the mediterranean whether they fit our criteria or not. why? because our agricultural and fisheries policies are out-pricing their products and raiding their natural resources. of course we must patrol europe’s borders. the moreno sánchez report is right to demand that frontex be given the budget, the staff and the equipment needed to do its job – although suspending gibraltar from frontex, equivalent to leaving a hole in the fence, frankly beggars belief. longer term, however, only a comprehensive eu policy that punishes the people smugglers, provides legal routes in and creates hope where there is despair can counter prevailing trends. the truth is we have only one choice in dealing with developing countries: we take their goods or we take their people. if we want to let fewer in, then we must help more at home, as ms gruber’s report rightly says. that is why the portuguese presidency must redouble its efforts to bring down europe’s farm tariffs and bring doha to a successful conclusion and why the commission must develop a generous agenda for africa, linking money and market opening to respect for human rights and the rule of law, to give people hope of a better life at home. mr lobo antunes, mr frattini, hold your next council meeting in the immigration hall on new york’s ellis island. learn from our history of wandering westwards as you plan for the eu-africa summit in december. migration will not go away: it is driven by the heady cocktail of despair and hope, it follows the law of supply and demand, but it has the capacity, if properly managed, to enrich and energise europe. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission, the council and our two rapporteurs for recognising the complexity of the issues at long last and the need for a coherent approach. we know that migration is a fact of life, we know it is a force for development and we know that many eu nationals also follow a path where they want to earn, learn or yearn for something better, just as those coming from sub-saharan africa do. we welcome the move for equal rights for all groups of migrants here because we have been concerned that looking at this in a sectoral approach can lead to even greater complexity in terms of different rights for different workers. but we are also concerned that we find a status for those who currently cannot return to their countries of origin because of conflict and are therefore left destitute, often on our streets. we also welcome the call for greater honesty from member states about the need for migrant workers in our current economies. globalisation has speeded up migration, and i would thoroughly agree with those members who have talked about the need to change our trade rules. as we were told, if you take our fish, you take our fishermen too. in which case, i would urge those members not to shed crocodile tears about the plight of certain migrants – and not to vote for fisheries agreements in this house and not to vote for the trade rules that devastate economies elsewhere. we are also right to look at employment in this debate in terms of equal rights, equal pay, good inspection, which is good for all workers who need to know their rights. if we are concerned about the brain drain, we also need to look at retention measures for our own skilled workers. we need to use and develop the skills of those migrant workers coming to us, and equal has given us some fantastic examples there which we must not lose. and if we are going to attract the highly skilled, it is not just a question of free movement; it is also a question of tackling racism and xenophobia, which also deter many highly skilled people from coming to the european union. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, poor mr frattini is still lost in the hampton court maze as we see the eu moving ever further from democracy. let us contrast our position – and not for the first time – with switzerland. switzerland knows that local knowledge is the key to immigration policy. the eu seeks to centralise immigration control above the level of national governments. the swiss, in contrast, devolve it downwards, wherever possible, to the level of their cantons. in switzerland the annual quota for immigrants is partly decided by the federal government and partly by the cantons. proposals for a federal migration agency have been rejected there. the swiss cantons and their long tradition of direct democracy have been the historic drivers of an immigration policy which works to the benefit of the national economy and ensures that immigrants are well integrated into swiss society. as professor windisch of the university of geneva told the french foundation for political innovation in its april 2006 newsletter, swiss direct democracy had to – openly and very early on – confront issues involving immigration and integration by means – perish the thought! – of referendums and popular initiatives. he continued: ‘unlike an extremely centralist country such as france, the debate was led both at the federal level and on a canton and commune scale, calling for community-based responses, and involved initiatives such as setting up an integration office in every canton and the geographic dispersion of new arrivals.’ the lesson for those of us who, unlike the swiss, have not had the good fortune to stay outside the eu is this: immigration policy works in switzerland because it is decided according to local needs as well as national ones and because local communities, not faceless, centralised bureaucracy, are responsible for the integration of migrants on the basis of those needs. in the uk, subject as it is temporarily to eu membership, immigration policy moves ever further away from that fount of local knowledge, and we in the uk independence party have been quick to point out the shortcomings of that approach.
mr president, the ability of a nation state to control its own borders and change its immigration policy as required is a tangible demonstration of sovereignty. the fact that the united kingdom cannot now rectify the grave miscalculation which it made in 2004, with its open-door policy to eastern europe, is a telling indication of just how much sovereignty we in the united kingdom have conceded to belong to this club. i say ‘grave miscalculation’ because, instead of the 13 000 predicted immigrant workers, we have had 750 000, with the related massive drain on our welfare system of millions per annum in child benefit and tax credits for children who do not even live in the united kingdom but qualify because their fathers work there. because of the rules of the eu, we are powerless to do anything about it, and yet some would have us concede even more powers to brussels. how foolish we would be to do so.
mr president, the topic we are discussing today is undoubtedly one of the utmost importance to europe and one where each member state faces different challenges. for this very reason, whether we are dealing with illegal or legal migration, we must not go down the path of a one-size-fits-all approach. migration matters must remain a sovereign right of each member state. however, i am in favour of greater cooperation between member states where common ground can be identified and where it can work for the benefit of all. and, like other speakers, i would particularly like to focus the house’s attention on the frontex system, where we have recently released a further eur 12 million to this organisation. from the outset the system has suffered as a result of member states who have pledged resources but who are not honouring their commitments. if this project is going to be a success we must ensure that these promised resources are made available to the operation as and when needed. however, this is only one tool in the struggle to stop illegal immigration. we must look at new and innovative solutions at the very source where migrants start their journey. we need to look at targeted campaigns in the states of origin, making it clear that europe is not an open door. most of all, we must also target people traffickers. the other side of this coin means our member states having effective repatriation policies to deter those who both seek and organise illegal migration. so finally can i sum up by saying that it is cooperation, not regulation, that is needed between member states. a one-size-fits-all approach cannot solve the problems of immigration, and we must not fall into the trap of thinking that ‘more europe’ is the solution.
rapporteur. – mr president, the report supports the commission’s proposals to streamline procedures for those citizens who wish to stand or vote at an election to the european parliament in their state of residence. it fully respects national law and practices, and it pushes forward the argument for the future about extending cross-border democracy. would members please support the committee resolution without amendment.
mr president, on a point of order, i see that the alde group has requested a separate vote on every single amendment in the context of this report. under our rules of procedure, only a group can table an amendment. i wanted to check whether this has really been done in the name of the group or whether it is just one of their members claiming to act on behalf of the group.
in writing. i welcome in principle the idea of a european institute of technology. however, i abstained on the resolution because i do not think we have yet sorted out the objectives, management and finances of the institute to a satisfactory level.
in writing. the eplp have chosen to abstain on both the amended proposal and legislative resolution for the report: european institute of technology. while in favour of the general objectives of the proposal and its focus on innovation, eu and member states money would be better spent on existing universities and eu research framework programmes. we believe that the eit administrative structure should be as least bureaucratic as possible, and therefore smaller than the proposed 21 appointed members. there are also still serious concerns regarding the private and public financing of the eit. given that the commission’s proposal to finance the eit suggests the reopening of the financial perspectives, we cannot support the report.
mr president, of all the claims made by supporters of the european constitution, perhaps the silliest is that eu citizenship does not prejudice national citizenship. one by one, the entitlements once bestowed by nationality have been eroded: the right of residence; the right to elect your own representatives; increasingly, too, the right to claim welfare. any neutral observer would conclude that eu citizenship is becoming the primary legal status of our constituents, with their national citizenships a secondary, almost folkloric category. i accept that this is where the majority in this house wants to go but, for heaven’s sake, be honest about it! let us hear no more nonsense about the status of my constituents as british subjects being unaffected.
in writing. i welcome this report, which should reduce the burden on electoral authorities and individuals as regards the right to vote in the european elections. i support scrapping the current information exchange system while keeping the individual declaration not to vote or stand twice.
in writing. given the changing market conditions i understand and support the commission’s proposal for a zero set-aside for agriculture in 2008. ending set-aside is expected to increase output by at least 10 million tonnes of cereals. this should take pressure off the rising grain prices.
in writing. one of the great mysteries to the population of the european union is how we can devise a system that pays farmers for leaving land idle. now whilst i understand that some reputable organisations like the rspb in the uk use this system to fund their excellent work, nevertheless it cannot be right that we leave good land idle and pay farmers for keeping it that way. that is why i support a zero per cent set-aside, but we must also in tandem ensure that our farmers and others are encouraged to keep land in good order and by making the land productive by helping them from other sources. if we are serious about fundamental cap reform then an end to set-aside payments has to be at the forefront of any reform procedure. that is why i will support the commission’s proposals.
in writing. the resolution of the parliament, approved today by a large majority, rightly concentrates on the immediate issues of ensuring the safety of products under existing eu directives. the epp-ed group has insisted throughout that the resolution should concentrate on practical proposals that would reinforce consumer safety, without delay. we have, in addition, proposed the evaluation of a european consumer safety label, to be applied on a voluntary basis by providers of consumer goods. we are pleased that the parliament has endorsed this proposal. we will take an intense interest in the future toys directive, and will examine the commission’s proposed reforms with an open mind. in our view, the attempt to introduce very detailed and specific requirements for this future directive in this resolution was entirely unnecessary. we have therefore voted against these proposed additions, but this in no way diminishes our interest and concern to bring about an effective and workable directive when we receive the commission proposal in 2008.
in writing. i welcome the overwhelming vote in favour of this resolution. we have sent a clear message to toy manufacturers and to china that failure to ensure the highest safety standards for children’s toys will not be tolerated. china is on notice that it must improve its inspection of goods and detection methods to dramatically reduce the flow of unsafe goods on to the european market.
in writing. clearly the european union needs to co-ordinate its approach to external sources of energy much better than at present. however, i can see no value in the proposal for a high official for foreign energy policy believing it would only cause confusion with the role played at present by mr solana, and i therefore voted against this proposal. i did on the other hand vote in favour of the reference to unbundling energy production and energy transmission and distribution.
in writing. british conservatives recognise the need for the 27 member states to show more solidarity in terms of external energy policy as all member states in the coming years become increasingly dependant on imported oil and gas from third countries who could otherwise pick off the more dependant and vulnerable states to the detriment of the union as a whole. this does not mean that we endorse a common energy policy, in particular, that the eu for instance can determine individual member states’ energy mix such as the proportion of fossil fuels versus renewables. broadly, conservatives support the aims of this report although we reject the need for a single powerful co-ordinating figure to speak on this matter. neither do we see the need for a new legal basis to be created within the treaties to address this issue. attempts to add new eu competences instead of making proper use of existing ones are unnecessary. conservatives also believe in a market-oriented approach, not further eu institutionalisation.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports much of this resolution, in particular the priority given to supporting renewable sources of energy, promoting energy as one of the cornerstones of the european neighbourhood policy and calling for increased safeguards against pollution. we abstained on citation 12 due to the abandonment of the constitutional treaty, which makes the proposed citation irrelevant. we abstained on amendment 2 and on paragraph 13 as we feel that the position of a new high official for energy policy could lead to unnecessary confusion. we voted in favour of paragraph 62 maintaining the reference to unbundling of energy production as we wish to be consistent with a previously stated position which considers transmission ownership unbundling to be the most effective tool to promote investments, fair access to the grid and transparency in the market.
in writing. i welcome this report, which is designed to make life easier for legal migrants. despite their status, legal migrants are often intentionally and unintentionally discriminated against. the rapporteur calls for a range of measures for legal migrants including improved employment rights, transfer of pension and welfare rights, recognition of qualifications, long-term and multiple-entry visas, all of which i support.
in writing. it is a dangerous fallacy that demographic change in our domestic population requires large-scale immigration of people from different, often hostile, cultures and societies, with all the implications that this has for our national cohesion and identity, the full integration of our settled immigrant population, the impact on our public services, as well as on public health, safety and security. i wholly oppose the transfer of powers or responsibility from national authorities to the eu in relation to our national border controls and immigration and asylum policy. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. i welcome this report which in essence calls for a firm policy to fight illegal immigration based on solidarity between member states and co-operation with third countries in full respect of the fundamental rights of the person.
in writing. british conservatives voted against the reports on migration, as the issue of migration is solely a matter for member states and intergovernmental cooperation. references to the draft reform treaty and the extension of qualified majority voting are the wrong way to deal with the problems the eu is facing. a ‘one size fits all’ approach does not work with immigration.
mr president, the president of the council threw up his hands and said the eu had no power to act, that torture flights and secret prisons are ‘nothing to do with us, guv!’. then he said that the council had been involved in the active promotion of human rights outside the eu. i really am getting quite sick of hearing presidencies endlessly parrot european values but claim that they cannot deliver accountability for human rights abuses inside the eu. here are two things that you could do. why have only 12 member states signed the un convention on enforced disappearance, notable absentees from signature being the uk, germany, spain, poland and romania – a funny list that – as well, of course, as the us? secondly, you could get eu member states to volunteer to take guantánamo prisoners who have been cleared for release. the uk had to be taken to court before it bid for five uk residents to come back to the uk. if the eu calls for the closure of guantánamo, which we more or less did, then let member states put their action where their mouth is. i agree with commissioner frattini that a parliamentary inquiry is insufficient. we did not have the powers and the investigatory techniques of the police and judicial inquiry, but firstly i would say that the weight of testimony from victims and others that we received and published was weighty, consistent and persuasive. secondly, it is a bit rich to reproach a parliamentary report when member states refused to instigate police or judicial inquiries. the uk intelligence and security committee, which is appointed by and reports to the prime minister – not to parliament – reproached british security services for not realising that information they passed to the cia would be misused for abduction, disappearance and torture. well, if we have such naive british intelligence services, it does not make me feel very safe. it is certainly good to hear that commissioner frattini is shutting the stable door somewhat after the horse has bolted in terms of stopping abuse of european airspace, with private planes evading controls on state aircraft or not filing flight plans, but that is no substitute for accountability for past permission or tolerance for torture flights through, or secret prisons on, european territory.
madam president, well, we do seem to have a lot of armchair generals in the house this afternoon! the desperate humanitarian and security situation in darfur and neighbouring regions of chad and the central african republic certainly cry out for international action, but i have to say that is a separate matter from the issue before us today, which is really about esdp, as we have heard from so many speakers. i have long argued against the waste of resources, the duplication, the divisions, indeed the sheer duplicity involved in the eu’s attempts to develop a military capability. there are no eu troops, mr ryan. our nations have troops and there are already well-tried structures for organising international military intervention by that small number of states that have capable armed forces and an expeditionary capability. this is primarily through nato and the un. the eu institutions have little to contribute to military matters. it is clear that the motives of the esdp enthusiasts are essentially political. indeed, one has said that chad should be seen as a political opportunity. the eu offered itself to the un; it was not the un that invited the eu. the eu is desperately keen to pin its institutional label on another military operation but, not surprisingly, national military staffs do not share the enthusiasm of the eurocrats. with extended lines of communication, over a thousand miles to the nearest seaport, lack of water resources and infrastructure, and a reluctance to take on rebel groups with offensive military operations, the chad mission is precarious from every point of view. britain, germany and italy have already said that they will not be sending any troops. what is this force going to do? certainly not take on the armed hostile elements that have created the mayhem in this vast area of africa. undoubtedly, therefore, most of its effort will go into protecting and sustaining itself in a very difficult logistical situation. we really must stop playing around and using human tragedy as a political opportunity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the european union prides itself on its attention to human rights and yet it seems incapable of acting effectively against tyrannical regimes across the globe that continue to oppress and abuse their people year after year. there is a mindset that seems to think that a statement and a common position are all that is needed. the president-in-office said in the previous debate that we should live up to what we say. i agree with him. throughout my time in this parliament i have fought against two particular odious regimes: mugabe in zimbabwe and the military junta in burma. both have been the object of eu attention, but nothing has happened. we should be ashamed. today our attention is focused on burma where, for the past week, the alliance of all burmese buddhist monks has courageously led massive street protests in rangoon and many other parts of burma. we are all shocked to see that a desperate situation has now turned to tragedy. pictures have been flashed around the world of injured monks, smoke-filled pagodas and battered civilians as the security forces begin their crackdown. there are reports of at least five deaths, and hundreds more have been injured. we were warned almost a week ago by the radio station burma democratic voice that the government had authorised the use of firearms, and prepared for a violent conclusion to the peaceful demonstrations. it is high time that we stopped wringing our hands and got serious. i am under no illusions. as with zimbabwe, the key to change in burma lies with her neighbours, china in particular. china is burma’s biggest investor, trading partner and arms supplier. there is a high-level chinese parliamentary delegation in parliament today, led by mr wang yingfan, an influential member of the national people’s congress. i made a strong plea to him this morning for china to take action against the burmese regime. he reiterated china’s commitment to non-interference in the internal policies of other countries, but, at the same time, he assured me that china would continue to play a quiet but serious role and urge flexibility and a more positive approach on the burmese regime. we shall see what effect this has. yesterday, the presidency of the european union announced that tougher sanctions would be imposed in the event of a violent reaction. that violence has come and those tougher sanctions must now follow if the eu is to retain any credibility on the world stage. we must also make it clear that this time we will keep our word and stick to our sanctions. there must be no repeat of the disgraceful episode in may when the burmese foreign minister was allowed to attend an asem summit meeting in germany in flagrant violation of the eu’s own travel ban. we cannot ignore the fact, when considering sanctions, that total oil is one of burma’s few remaining foreign investors. total is directly helping to prop up the military junta, supplying hundreds of millions of dollars every year for the regime to maintain one of the largest armies in the world. the burma crisis is one that we have discussed for so long, and it is now upon us. we should remember that the men who were instrumental in the massacre of protestors in burma 20 years ago now hold key positions in the regime. it is a pity that the council and the commission did not listen more closely to parliament on these matters over the years. today, once more, we are tabling a strong resolution; it is short and very clear. we say to the burmese authorities: release aung san suu kyi immediately, leave the protestors alone and convene a fully representative national convention to include the national league for democracy. we say to the un security council: meet now to address the situation in burma and then immediately despatch your special envoy to that country. we say to the council and the commission: talk to the us and to asean to prepare a coordinated series of measures against the burmese regime, including economic sanctions, if it responds violently and does not respond in the way that we are saying.
in writing. – burma is one of the worst and longest-lasting military dictatorships in the world. it has kept its people in abject poverty, in stark contrast to the economic success of many of its neighbours. repression has been brutal. contact with the outside world is severely restricted, and the situation would have been forgotten were it not for the heroism of aung san suu kyi in providing a focal point for the hopes and democratic aspirations of the people of burma. i hope that the next few days will see the end of the military regime without further bloodshed and i call on the council and the high representative to bring whatever pressure they can to secure that outcome.
in writing. – as parliament’s rapporteur on the free trade agreement between the eu and asean, i have made it clear in all my meetings with asean trade ministers and officials that parliament would strongly resist any concessions to the current burmese military dictatorship. the events of the last few days, where peaceful protest led by buddhist monks has been met with teargas and bullets, have made an awful situation worse. i had the privilege of visiting aung san suu kyi in rangoon almost a decade ago, when her house arrest was sufficiently relaxed for her to receive rare visitors. she made it absolutely clear that she, as the representative and leader of the democratically elected national league for democracy, overthrown by the military regime, wanted the eu to impose the strongest possible sanctions. now the eu and member states should lead the demand for global un sanctions through the security council. neither we, nor the people of burma, can wait any longer.
in writing. – the situation in burma is extremely worrying. those demonstrating against the military regime (including the monks) are showing immense courage. the regime has brutally repressed previous demonstrations and shown scant regard for the welfare of its people. international pressure must be maximised on the regime, including a commitment to hold those responsible for any atrocities in the coming days responsible before the international criminal court. the eu must speak to china and india, who are in a better place to pressurise the regime, asking them to intervene to protect the demonstrators and help return burma to democracy.
i welcome the president-in-office’s response and i am very pleased that the council took the decision to arrange for the transmission of these proceedings in advance of any provisions that may be found in the reform treaty. i note the president-in-office’s response that, before the end of 2007, a review will be undertaken and published, which, i hope; will indicate how the principles of openness and transparency in this area may be extended. can the president-in-office confirm that, before the end of his presidency, such a review will indeed be published?
acting president of the council. i agree with the honourable member that promoting security and stability in afghanistan from a military point of view is fundamental, but it is only part of what we must do in afghanistan. we also have to bet on strengthening the democratic institutions in afghanistan and we have to bet strongly on the civil society component of the afghan state and we have to invest in health and we have to invest in education and we have to invest in training. and we also have, of course, to continue to win the hearts of the afghans. so there is a strategy here, a strategy which must have two aspects, as i said, the military aspect, security, stability on the ground, because without security, without stability on the ground there can be no peace, there can certainly be no economic and social development. we must therefore be able to guarantee this aspect and at the same time to bet on and invest in afghan civil society and democratic institutions. the so-called building of the administrative capacity of the afghan state.
acting president of the council. mr president, what i can imagine is that we have to invest in all sectors of afghan society, as i have just mentioned. obviously, with a country like afghanistan, with its current security difficulties, its economic difficulties and its own social structure, i believe there is a very important role, particularly for small and mediumsized enterprises in afghanistan. so it seems to me that this is indeed a sector in which we can and should invest, from the point of view of shaping afghanistan's economic and social fabric. the use of the financial instrument in question, of course, we can discuss. but it is clear that nobody is expecting at this moment, at least at this moment, in afghanistan, that of course there are big companies setting up there. it's not the time yet. for the time being, in order to revitalise the afghan economic fabric, i believe that we must concentrate our efforts above all on skills, training and, at the same time, on small and mediumsized enterprises.
acting president of the council. the council requests the honourable member to consult the threat assessment of organised crime, a report drawn up annually by europol for the council's attention, a version of which is published and sent annually to the european parliament. on 13 june this year, in its conclusions on acro for 2007, the council reiterated its conviction that the fight against organised crime should focus on reducing the threat and the harm caused by it and, in particular, on addressing the following problems: obstacles encountered in dismantling organised criminal groups which, due to the international dimension or the influence of these groups themselves, the level of infiltration of organised crime in society and the economy, in particular the misuse of legal business structures, in particular in the transport sector, and finally the misuse of technology by criminal groups. the council also stressed that the european union's priorities for 2007 should be the following criminal markets: drug trafficking, especially synthetic drugs; smuggling and trafficking in human beings, especially when associated with illegal immigration; fraud, especially in relation to high tax goods and the vat carousel; counterfeiting of the euro, counterfeiting of commodities and theft of intellectual property, money laundering. as in the case of acro for 2006, these conclusions stress the need for a multidisciplinary approach based on criminal intelligence in order not only to thwart criminal activities but also to dismantle criminal organisations, bring criminals to justice and deprive them of the proceeds of crime. this implies using dedicated, specialised resources and organising structures to use all the information in the possession of law enforcement authorities to identify and tackle the most threatening criminal groups. the council also called in its conclusions for further development of a new control strategy based on criminal intelligence covering the whole national territory, possibly of the european union, supplementing external border controls with checks in transit or at destination, monitoring financial movements and expanding the analytical capacities of the enforcement services of national and european union laws.
acting president of the council. i think, mr president, that, as i have said, it would be useful, or is useful, or even necessary to examine or consult the study on the threat assessment of organised crime in europe. i do not dispute nor do i have at this moment data to tell you whether there is more or less crime, but there is also often a psychological perception of increased crime that the facts do not demonstrate. but one thing is clear: we really need a concerted effort, a greater effort and a reinforced effort of cooperation between the member states, but also of cooperation between the european institutions and the member states, in order to eliminate the vast and varied threats posed by organised crime, which today, given the technologies, as i have said, the new technologies have extremely sophisticated modes of action and are extremely difficult to combat. i think that all of us in our member states are also aware of these new technological realities, of the new opportunities offered to criminals by technological development, which create very particular and special difficulties in combating them. the portuguese presidency, as it is its responsibility, will of course be attentive to all the proposals and suggestions that the institutions wish to make in order to combat more effectively the threats posed by these criminal associations, which, in fact, do not fail to have an important impact on our societies by the type of crime they themselves are.
i expect the president-in-office would be appalled by any link between organised crime and any government within the eu. yet, sadly, that is exactly the situation in northern ireland, where sinn féin, a lead party in government, is inextricably linked to the ira, whose illegal army council controls a portfolio of hundreds of millions of euros accumulated from the ira’s organised crime activities. this is one of the reasons why its army council has not been disbanded. will the council join in condemning this obscenity and call upon ira/sinn féin to disband its illegal army council forthwith?
in the interests of my colleague, who wants to ask question no 20, i will waive my right to a supplementary.
the next item is the report by lasse lehtinen, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the obligations of cross-border service providers (2006/2049(ini)) (a6-0294/2007).
thank you, commissioner. i would just remind you that all remarks should be addressed through the chair. it is late at night and there are few of us but it is a small point of protocol. but i am sure mr lehtinen took on board your remarks.
if colleagues want to place something on the record, they can always do so in writing during the course of the voting procedure.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i speak on behalf of my friend and former colleague in this parliament, mr konstantinos hatzidakis, who, as mr lehtinen says, has been elevated swiftly to the position of minister of transport in the greek government. i want to pay tribute to him for the work he has done on the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i am essentially picking up the work where he left off, right at the conclusion. i want to thank mr lehtinen because it has not been recorded so far that this is his first report, i think, as a rapporteur. some of you may know that he is a distinguished author in his own right, though i think this is probably not his best work. i do not think he will mind me saying that. i have a copy of his book blood, sweat and bears, which he gave me to read, and i think he has put a bit of blood and sweat into this. it is an important report, but i have to say, from our side, we agree very much with the line that ms kauppi and commissioner reding have taken. there is some useful material in here but i just want to reassure the commissioner that, if she reads article 22, which in my view is a masterpiece of compromise drafting, where it calls upon the commission to continue work and to submit a work programme for an assessment, you will be pleased to hear it does not actually ask you to produce a horizontal instrument but to do a work programme to assess whether we need one. you already confirmed, i think, what many of us feel – that with all the work that is currently going on to implement the services directive, the green paper on the consumer acquis, which we have just considered and which will result in a horizontal instrument in that area plus the other work that is going on – which my colleague from the committee on legal affairs, ms kauppi, and i know ms wallis will cover later – i think it is much too early to contemplate any further detailed provisions at this stage. it is absolutely clear that we do need to monitor this, but of course within the services directive itself, with all the work we put in it, there are a very substantial number of provisions. one of the amendments that we hope the house will agree to delete tomorrow does actually call upon the commission to draw up voluntary codes of conduct. in my view that is not the commission’s role. i think we will have support to delete that. but in fact, if you look at the services directive, in article 37 it actually says quite clearly that member states, in cooperation with the commission, shall take measures to encourage codes of conduct to be drawn up at community level. it is not as if we did not already have that. so i think that we will take that out, so my summary of it is this: i think that this is a very useful contribution to the debate. i think it will add to the corpus of information that we are building up to ensure, above all, that the services directive is fully implemented and is implemented on time, with all the accompanying provisions – particularly the issues like the single point of contact for service providers, which will give them the sort of requirements and information that they need to provide services plus, we hope, the sort of work on codes of conduct. with those, i think we can look forward to a really effective and thriving services market that works to the benefit of consumers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is, of course, unfinished business from the services directive, and, although i agree with much of the commissioner’s analysis, we do have a problem. we have a problem of confidence. it is a bit like the northern rock bank in the uk over the past few weeks. whatever it said, the customers were still queuing outside, wanting their money back. it is a bit like that with us and cross-border services. whatever we say, consumers still are not confident enough to use those services. we have to find a way of addressing that. those in this house that sat on the temporary committee of inquiry into the crisis of the equitable life assurance society also saw only too clearly that there is this problem of confidence. but we will not be able to address that by going back to old proposals that dealt with problems perceived some 20 years ago. we have got to deal with the problems and situation that we have now. what we are basically dealing with, in looking at service providers’ obligations, is looking at basic contract law and basic contractual obligations. in this regard, we currently have on the table rome i, which ms kauppi has referred to; if we get that right, it will help. we also have the whole review of the consumer acquis; if we get that right, it will help. we have the preparation of the common frame of reference on contract law; if we use that, and if the commission puts a great deal more effort into getting the member states to take it up, that would also help. so there is much that can already be used to help us get right the relationship between private international law and regulation. what we do not need – i agree with mr harbour – is the commission writing soft law codes of conduct. let us use what is already being done at the moment and what is in preparation. we can keep a weather eye on whether or not we need yet another horizontal instrument, but, at this stage, i really doubt it. what we also need to address is the possibility of giving our consumers the right to cross-border access to justice where they can act together as a group. this would be a balancing of arms against providers. it would make good the current lack of cross-border access to justice, which we saw all too clearly with equitable life. people do not like to use the words ‘class actions’, and neither do i, but a european right of collective redress might help give us the confidence for consumers that is currently lacking on this continent.
thank you very much indeed, commissioner, for an interesting debate, in which more than 50% of the speakers were women, which is just as it should be. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 september 2007. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by marie-hélène descamps, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on i2010: digital libraries (2006/2040(ini)) (a6-0296/2007). once again, more than 50 per cent of the speakers in this debate are women, the first of which is marie-hélène descamps, the rapporteur.
ah, but the women are very happy you are a man!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the british library has roots going back to 1753. it contains documents dating as far back as 300 bc. famous people such as karl marx, oscar wilde, mahatma gandhi, rudyard kipling, george orwell, george bernard shaw, even vladimir lenin, are just some of the figures who have studied in the reading rooms of the british museum and british libraries. i wonder if they would have found so much inspiration from surfing the internet. i suspect that our magnificent facility, with its unprecedented collection of publications from every corner of the world and british empire – and beyond, indeed – will be as treasured long after the eu has gone the way of other eurofederalist projects from charlemagne to the awful political nightmares of the last two centuries. good luck, ms descamps, with your digital library, but in this area, as in so many others, i would rather concentrate on protecting and preserving and developing a heritage that i am proud of than creating the trappings of a new state out of the ruins of failed ones.
i would like to thank all the speakers very much, and especially commissioner reding for her charm and intelligence. i would like to thank her in own language, luxembourgish, because today is lesser known languages day. merci! (laughter)
the next item is the report by tomáš zatloukal, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on efficiency and equity in european education and training systems (2007/2113(ini)) (a6-0326/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 27 september 2007. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on a european strategy for the rights of the child: against ‘dys’crimination of children and exclusion of ‘dys’ people, by anna záborská, amalia sartori and marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the ppe-de group, roberta angelilli on behalf of the uen group, zita gurmai and catherine trautmann on behalf of the pse group, adamos adamou on behalf of the gue/ngl group, hiltrud breyer et raül romeva i rueda on behalf of the verts/ale group, elizabeth lynne on behalf of the alde group, and kathy sinnott on behalf of the ind/dem group (o-0062/2007 – b6-0317/2007).
thank you very much for your point, which of course concerns us all on what is the day of european languages. the matter is being considered and a report is being prepared that will go to the conference of presidents, so your point is taken. we now continue with the debate on the oral question to the commission on a european strategy for the rights of the child.
author. – madam president, it is estimated that there are approximately 49 million people with some form of ‘dys’ability within the eu. as many as 10% of children are affected by a ‘dys’-type disability such as dysphasia, dyspraxia, dyslexia, dyscalculia, or attention-deficit disorder. take the case of sean in the uk. the teachers’ report described him as stupid, awkward, disruptive and over-emotional. because of his problem, he was marginalised and bullied by fellow pupils and teachers did very little to intervene. sean’s parents were eventually forced to withdraw him from school after he arrived home badly beaten and bloodied, but the local education authority refused to provide tutoring or assistance, so education was left to his parents, one of whom was forced to give up work. thankfully, a local support group was at hand and offered help to sean and his parents. other children in the uk and some other member states are not so lucky. we must exchange best practice across the eu, and this is where the council and the commission have an important role to play. information must be made more available. steps must be taken to spot, screen, diagnose and treat these disorders at an early stage. structures must be adapted to integrate young people with disabilities into the world of work, and it is important that a european charter for people with ‘dys’ problems is drawn up. it is also vital that research under the seventh framework programme is increased. there is no point in paying lip-service to disabled people’s rights. we have to continue to fight to ensure that individuals like sean are treated equally and given the help and support they deserve.
thank you very much, commissioner, for that reassurance. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, i welcome very much the commission taking infringement proceedings against 14 member states for failure to properly implement the directive. i am chastened to see that my own state, the uk, is on the list. one of the issues in the case of my country is that the definition of indirect discrimination does not comply. clearly there is no room for complacency, even in a country that has had legislation against race discrimination for over 40 years. strong political will is needed on this subject, which makes it all the more disappointing that the council did not think this debate important enough for it to be represented. i was very interested to hear the statistic quoted by commissioner michel that three out of four europeans are willing for data on ethnic origin to be collected on an anonymous basis, and i welcome the fact that the commission has done a lot of work in this area in recent years and produced a guide for best practice. we have come a very long way since 1999, when i dared put the words ‘ethnic monitoring’ in my draft report on the european year against racism and got whole bucketloads of objections. i obviously agree with mr gaubert that we have to watch carefully that ethnic and racial data collected for purposes of highlighting and fighting discrimination does not itself become a tool of discrimination through racial or ethnic profiling. i should like to ask the commissioner to what extent, besides data protection safeguards, the police in their operations – which are, of course, a supply of services – fall within the scope of the discrimination ban, such as in their conduct of stop-and-search operations. the police as employers clearly fall within that scope, but i have never been entirely clear to what extent the directive applies to police operations. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, in welcoming this commission communication, i regret that, despite this and other legislation, discrimination across the eu has not decreased but has increased dramatically. i would like to respond to those from the far right who challenge this because, let me tell you, that this year alone, i have met around 500 people from the sikh community from france, from belgium, from italy, from germany, all citing shocking cases of unacceptable discrimination against them because of their appearance: because they wear a turban. since 2004, there have been a number of sikh boys who have been expelled from schools in france for not removing their turban. there are similar cases in belgium and germany. whilst the french high court ruled that sikh men could wear their turban on their driving licence id photo, the french ministry, within 24 hours of this verdict, expressly forbade it. at brussels airport, sikh men are regularly asked to remove their turbans, which is considered a major insult. furthermore, i receive weekly calls from italy about people unable to go about their daily business because they are sikhs. so these cases are clearly a violation of everything that this report is asking for and what the commission is propagating. therefore, i would like to ask the commissioner what he and the commission are doing to challenge these cases of discrimination. we cannot talk about unity and diversity and then ignore practices of governments of many member states. i would like to congratulate ms buitenweg, the rapporteur on this report, for bringing forward measures that i hope will give some redress to those who are being marginalised because of ignorance and because of a lack of awareness and respect for other people’s culture. finally, i sincerely hope that in this year of equal opportunity, and next year of intercultural dialogue, we have the will to ensure that our deeds reflect our words.
mr president, i see from this report that there is to be no relief from this programme of spending our money to promote gender awareness, interfering in business hiring decisions and forcing firms to offer flexible working and generous leave arrangements, but nowhere do i see any recognition of side effects. there is no understanding that much of this social engineering is largely self-defeating. the simple logic, like it or not, is that if it costs more to hire women, then fewer women will be hired, despite the rules that prevent employers from mentioning gender in job advertisements and interviews. all legislation designed to prevent discrimination against women, or old people, or minorities, has the undesirable result of demeaning those who would have achieved without the legislation. all our jobs, for women and men, depend on the wealth generated by the economy. most jobs are provided by small businesses. well, unlike in this parliament, out there in the real world of small business, women and men are employed and they earn money by producing goods and services that other people are happy to pay for. this obsession with promoting gender equality is just one of many sources of interference in small business. if we continue to add more cost and more restrictions, then business will hire less and pay less. in the end we might be more equal, but we shall all be poorer, both women and men.
mr president, while we have a delegation from the national people’s congress in the public gallery, can i also say that i hope mr wang ying-fan will take a very strong message from this house that we expect china to be more active in bringing about a solution to the problems in burma. (prolonged applause) mr president, we spoke about this yesterday and i know he will take our views back with him. in order to save time, may i propose two oral amendments? we have a very fast changing situation in burma at the moment. first, i propose that, in paragraph 1, we have an additional sentence at the end: ‘and utterly condemns the brutal response by the burmese authorities’.
mr president, paragraph 3 would now read: ‘expresses its horror at the killing of peaceful protesters, insists that the security forces return to barracks and calls for recognition of the legitimacy of the demands that are being made, for international medical assistance for the injured and for the release of arrested demonstrators and other political prisoners.’ (prolonged applause)
in writing. the british conservative delegation is supportive of a coordinated strategy, under the auspices of the un, for resolution of the problems of darfur and the neighbouring regions of eastern chad and the central african republic, including humanitarian assistance and the protection of idps and refugees. however, it is opposed in principle to the very concept of an ‘esdp operation’ and the unnecessary, wasteful and divisive effort by the eu to involve itself in military matters. we therefore voted against the resolution.
mr president, in its vote today, the european parliament demands unfettered access for the united nations envoy in the unfolding crisis in burma, reversing that country’s decision to deny a visa to that envoy. there can be no moral equivalence between the visa ban on the burmese generals and their ban on the legitimate representative of the international community. i welcome last night’s call by france to freeze assets in burma. however, to freeze is not to disinvest and the targeted sanctions this parliament calls for will not be realised unless assets are removed, and that includes french companies such as total and elf too. finally, we not only call for protection for the protesters, but also express to them our solidarity. if this is a saffron revolution, we hope it will be peaceful, and in the name of human rights and democracy, we hope it will be successful.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lehtinen report on cross-border service providers and support moves which will increase consumer confidence in this area. the services sector makes up almost 70% of eu gdp and is continually growing. nevertheless, consumer confidence remains low in cross-border service transactions and accordingly full advantage is not being taken of the internal market. my group considers that consumer confidence will be best served by the obligations of service providers being clearly set out across the eu so that consumers are adequately protected.
mr president, i voted in support of this resolution because i believe in equal treatment between persons, irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin. and i believe in equality in this house, so i believe that it is people’s rights to put down amendments that do not support that. but i am still, nevertheless, surprised at the string of amendments that some members of this house have voted to support which are contrary to the principle of equal treatment for minorities and i am surprised equally that some people abstained on those votes. this because i think the fundamental principle of the european union is one where we respect minorities, we respect people from all different backgrounds, and i think it is an impulse of ours that we should support these, whatever.
in writing. british conservatives fully support the principle of equal treatment, irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. however, conservatives have abstained on this report as elements of the report call for the shift of burden of proof from the accuser to the accused. it is a fundamental part of uk law that the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ applies. we also feel that the eu should not become involved in any way in the judicial process in sovereign member states.
in writing. i support the buitenweg report on equal treatment of persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin. discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin or, indeed on grounds of disability, age, gender, faith or religion, social background or sexual orientation remain all too common throughout the eu. individual member states and the eu as a whole must take action to eliminate discrimination in all its forms – from targeting individual incidents on the streets, to abolishing the uk’s archaic act of settlement.
mr president, i supported the kauppi report on equality between women and men in the eu. europe has led the way to a position where enormous strides have been made in equality, all the way across the union. one particular area of progress has been in public protection services, in particular in the fire services. yet in my own constituency, despite massive protests by the fire brigades union and the public, these advances are under threat as the liberal-controlled county council is threatening to cut gbp 700 000 from the budget, ending 24-hour fire cover in the last two remaining fire stations in camborne and falmouth, while they pay themselves an extra gbp 1 million a year in allowances.
in writing. i support this report, which suggests gender equality policies as a fundamental means to meet the clear gender dimension of europe's demographic challenge.
rapporteur. – mr president, like my colleagues, i agree that a political agreement is probable at the igc in lisbon. but the thing that concerns us still, of course, is the quality of the agreement. i have to express concern, at the present stage of the igc, that we are seeing the emergence of a self-service europe propelled principally by the british demands for the opt-outs in the field of justice and interior affairs and fundamental rights. clearly there has to be a british domestic debate about why british citizens ought to be excluded from the benefits of integration inside all these important fields, but the british should also explain themselves more fully to the igc. what is it, precisely, that they are seeking to achieve with all these opt-outs? can we be truly satisfied that the arrangements that are negotiated for the management of this pick-and-choose approach will stand up in practice and ensure that common policies in the field of freedom, security and justice will still enjoy proper commonality and the full resources and instruments to carry them out? surely the uk and polish opt-out on the charter risks subverting the decision to make it binding for everyone else. i hope that the igc can be able to examine the question with sufficient care. would the presidency press the british to support the proposal from the parliament for an escape clause from their unfortunate protocol on the charter? the same applies to ioannina: the presidency and the commission should assure us this afternoon that they will not concede to the unreasonable demands to upgrade the ioannina clause from secondary to primary law. ioannina is the historical descendant of the luxembourg compromise; the luxembourg compromise was a gentleman’s agreement and so it should remain when included alongside the treaty as a decision of the council.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, prime minister sócrates must feel like england’s henry v before the battle of agincourt: hostile governments preparing for a fight, intent on weakening, even perhaps vetoing, treaty reform. president-in-office, your prime minister must hold firm to europe’s red lines and he must deliver next week a treaty able to underpin a strong, responsive and effective union. so it is ‘once more unto the breach, dear friends, once more’, for what should be the final battle in this constitutional war. this parliament will be your foot soldiers. we know that failure to agree on treaty reform would be a tragedy of shakespearean proportions. why? because the status quo has not worked, does not work and never can work. what council unanimity means in practice is that essential legislation is either shelved or lowered to the level of the common denominator. in an increasingly cut-throat, globalising world, where challenges like climate change, migration and terrorism demand radical responses, the lowest common denominator is just not good enough. it may not be the constitution but, for all its legalese, the reform treaty is a document which can quietly revolutionise europe. it develops democracy, putting codecision and qualified majority voting at the heart of decision-making. it favours subsidiarity, with a clearer division of competences, reinforcing the role of national parliaments and the union’s single legal personality, and it helps transparency, extending the ordinary legislative procedure to cover freedom, security and justice – an area where laws which breach the spirit of a rights-respecting union have been made behind closed doors for too long. the draft text of your amending treaty is not without its faults: the loss of europe’s symbols is a blow to federalists, as is the fudge on voting systems wrought by the poles. but we can live with them, so long as the ioannina compromise is not anchored in the treaty for all time. one thing we cannot live without, however, is a definition of european citizenship in article 8 of the treaty of european union, because citizenship is a symbol which, unlike a flag or an anthem, has a real life, real implications for over 450 million people. similarly, calling our foreign minister the ‘high representative’ is no grave cause for concern, but a high representative who is merely a puppet of the council certainly would be. parliament and the commission must unite to ensure that the joint character of the external action service is respected in full, and that the court of justice oversees the use of personal data within the common foreign and security policy. finally, and perhaps most importantly, we cannot have two classes of citizen. that goes entirely against the spirit of european integration and we must do our damnedest to ensure that british and polish opt-outs are not preserved in perpetuity by demanding a clause allowing revocation without reconvening the igc. it is not only opt-outs we must guard against: it is also ‘opt-ins’. if not properly formulated, they could allow governments first to water down, and then to wash their hands of, essential community laws in justice and home affairs after five years of dialogue and debate. if certain countries cannot accept reasonable compromise, our message should be this: they should start thinking about an amicable divorce from the union and cease holding it hostage to their own vested interests, for the interests of europe must take precedence over these. (applause)so i urge the council, the commission and our own representatives, in shakespeare’s words: ‘stiffen your sinews ..., hold hard the breath and bend up every spirit to his full height’ in defence of our common interest. (applause)
mr president, on past performance, i suspect that the council will be an occasion when british red lines will become pink smudges, later to be rubbed out entirely by the federalising european court of justice. opt-out, opt-in, shake it all about, the british government will claim victory, others will publicly indulge them, knowing that any apparent concessions are really without any substance. all this is to con the british public into believing that the reform treaty is actually materially different from the rejected constitution, when patently it is not. now that gordon brown has bottled out of an election, the need for a british referendum is greater than ever. no election means labour’s 2005 manifesto commitment of a referendum must stand. no referendum means no mandate for mr brown to proceed to ratification, and that is the bottom line upon which all democrats in the united kingdom should unite.
mr president, i want to thank the council and commission for their statements. the lisbon informal summit is going to be a crucial event, having had the publication of the draft reform treaty, which heads of state and government will focus on when they meet there. but the igc process has been rushed too much. indeed, the british government says it has only had two days to consider the draft mandate. the proposals are, of course, as has been said by other speakers, very much the same as those contained in the original constitutional text. the british prime minister has a problem. it is called trust – trust in what he says. for the past few weeks, he has encouraged his ministers to talk up prospects of an election in the uk and then, when the political going got rough, he backed down. i think his european colleagues, fellow european leaders, should be very careful that whatever he says in lisbon, he is likely to mean something completely different. british conservatives, of course, will continue to demand a referendum on the treaty. the vast majority of british people want one, including most of the government’s own supporters. if the prime minister continues to resist that pressure, despite a clear election manifesto pledge, then the british people will have further confirmation that he cannot be trusted. the leader of my party said that this could well be a blatant breach of trust – one of the greatest and most blatant breaches of trust in modern politics. i do also wish that europe would concentrate more on the paths of globalisation, alleviating world poverty and tackling climate change. these are the lessons that we should, by now, have learnt. i hope that our prime minister will be straight with the british people on the issues that arise at lisbon. we want a successful europe, but it must be a europe that concentrates on the things that people really do support and understand.
mr president, may i congratulate the portuguese presidency on the progress they have made towards securing consensus. but, of course, we have heard from many colleagues today that there is considerable disappointment in this parliament. there are many who are disappointed at the loss of the idea of a constitution that would have replaced the current treaties and refounded our union on a new legal base. there are others who are disappointed at the numerous changes that have been secured and the special provisions and derogations for certain member states. some of these changes are, of course, unfortunate. but they are the price that has to be paid to secure agreement of all 27 countries capable of being ratified by all 27 countries. that is the situation that we are faced with. there is no way around the fact that this treaty has to be acceptable to all member states and ratified by all member states. colleagues should not lose sight of the overall picture. this treaty, even in this form, contains many vital reforms. we need those reforms; the union needs those reforms. anyone who wants a well-functioning and democratically accountable union should support these reforms. the alternative to the reformed treaty is more of the same, but with years more wrangling on the institutions and the mechanics of the european union. i would rather secure the reformed treaty and then move on with a greater capacity for the union to address the real issues that citizens are interested in: climate change; the performance of our economy; overseas development aid; the environment – all those things for which we need the union, because alone and separately, we are not effective, but together we can do more. let us move on and get these institutional issues settled once and for all.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, on behalf of the pse group, i would like to support this report. my group will be voting for it and we hope that this text that was adopted by a 70% majority in committee can now be endorsed by an equally impressive majority in parliament as a whole. the rapporteurs have – sensibly, in view of the legal constraints laid down by the new treaty, in view of the time constraints laid down now before the conclusion of the igc – focused on correcting the main anomalies in the current distribution of seats rather than embarking on proposing a radical overhaul of the system, which could only have led to deadlock in the igc and endangered the approval and ratification of the new treaty. in particular, no member state will see a reduction in the number of seats that it is entitled to under the current treaties where they provide for the distribution of seats from 2009 onwards – except, of course, where it is laid down in the treaty itself for the federal republic of germany. with that sole exception, no country will see a reduction compared to what is planned already in the treaty for 2009. now, of course, some of our colleagues are trying to win more seats for their own member state, sometimes arguing that their country’s population is suddenly much bigger than we had all assumed beforehand, bigger than the eurostat figures that are used by everybody, including the council. others are arguing, for reasons of national prestige, that they should have the same number of seats as another particular member state. i must confess that i am very surprised at the attitude of the italian government. i understand that mr prodi, and indeed some italian members here, have been arguing that it is essential for italy to have the same number of seats as france and the united kingdom. yet they accepted – we all accepted – the principle of proportional degression: proportional to population. i accept that my country will have one seat fewer than france although we have always had the same size up to now. i do not see why it should be so difficult for italy as well to accept that it has fewer seats than france for exactly the same reason. and i am surprised that a government from a country that has so often said that it is the example to us all in terms of being communautaire, that it has a strong european commitment, that it is not nationalist, it always puts europe before its national interests, that now italy and mr prodi is arguing that italy, for reasons of national prestige, should have the same number of seats as france and the uk, even though its population does indeed differ. to conclude, may i urge that this house support this report, reject the amendments and send a clear strong message to the european council.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the alde group will also support the lamassoure-severin proposal. the igc is asking us to change our composition to suit the terms of the reform treaty, and that is a perfectly proper request. we, as a parliament, need to send a strong, clear message back that we are able to take such a sophisticated and brave decision. there is no pure, definitive formula. paragraph 6 applies a practicable and sensible definition of degressive proportionality. of course, i, too, accept that some national delegations are seeking to improve their position on the league table, but it transpires that all such proposals are mutually contradictory. all those who seek to alter the system fail. the d’hondt proposal would give too much clout to the larger states, and i would say to mr friedrich that his proposal breaches the treaty principle of degressive proportionality. the square root system gives too much clout to smaller states. i completely accept that the italians raise an interesting point about the statistical basis, and we should examine, as a parliament, the distinction between nationals, citizens, residents and voters. but the issue is extraordinary complicated, and it treads firmly upon national sovereignty in the area of electoral law and citizenship. we cannot possibly solve such a problem inside the space of a week before the end of the igc. following the igc, there will be a report from the committee on constitutional affairs, for which i have the privilege to be appointed rapporteur, that can address all these questions and propose a reform of the primary law of 1976. but all of that is for next year rather than the present state of affairs. meanwhile, let us give solid support to the proposal and send a solution, rather than a problem, to the igc. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i speak not on behalf of my group, but as a member who has seen things he did not wish to see. i hope the minister does not believe the sanctimonious claptrap he read this house. to suggest for one moment that the policies of this european union are impartial is just ridiculous. everyone knows that we pursue a policy of double standards. we expect and demand the palestinians to obey every requirement. we merely request that the israelis meet our wishes. those double standards reek. commissioner, do you remember standing here just a few months ago, after the palestinian delegation had returned from meeting mr haniyeh in gaza, before the breakdown of the palestinian unity government, saying to this house that you wanted to do everything you could to support that government? within a fortnight, of course, it had fallen! it had fallen partly because we had refused to talk to the elected representatives. we had refused to talk to mr haniyeh and, not surprisingly, having undermined the democratic forces, the forces of violence took over. we never seem to learn the lessons of history. we have to stop ignoring the wishes of the palestinian people. we have to start paying some respect to the forces of democracy, and we have to recognise that you cannot make peace without talking to your enemy. (applause). the continuing refusal to deal with some of those elements in hamas who want to take a step towards us just makes promotion of peace in the middle east impossible to attain. one question about the motion for a resolution before us: why are we even thinking about giving money to gaza? what has it got to do with the european union? gaza is an israeli prison camp! it is nothing to do with us. it is the israelis who should be responsible for keeping one and a half million people alive. they are the ones who keep them in misery. it is not our responsibility to be providing our taxpayers’ money to meet israeli responsibilities. finally, again on this question of impartiality, we have heard within the last couple of weeks that the israeli defence force has ordered the confiscation of more palestinian land to build the roads to enable the building of the e1 settlement – the further expansion of jewish settlements in east jerusalem – against every commitment we have requested the israelis to make, and against every hope there could be for a genuine outcome from the forthcoming peace talks. as the palestinians see all hopes of a viable, independent palestinian state disappearing before their eyes, what is the european union going to do about it? you know very well that it is going to do nothing except mouth a few words and take no tangible action!
mr president, mr davies asked, earlier on, what role the european union had in the middle east. of course, i know it was a rhetorical question, because he is very committed to a solution, but it is a fact that the european union has a direct interest in the outcome of the middle east peace process. i speak from a constituency in yorkshire from which the four bombers who attacked london several months ago came. they were motivated by what was happening in the middle east. the bombers in madrid also. so the security of europe is directly connected to the middle east. i believe that we also have historic and humanitarian commitments to a peaceful outcome. after all, the process of peace has been slow and patchy, and has resulted in numerous initiatives, numerous intergovernmental conferences – madrid, oslo and so on. we have got to the point now, in october 2007, where there is almost a desperation to try and find some solution. so i believe that it is now time for some fairly radical new thinking. one of the propositions i would make is that the recent talks between mr olmert and mr mahmoud abbas about – in effect – a final status solution, should reflect the negotiations that mr olmert himself, a young parliamentarian, had in 1987, where he and the plo negotiated privately actually to talk about the capital of the palestinian state in east jerusalem, about the borders of 1967, and about some settlers returning. in other words, he got there in 1987, and maybe now the time will come, this autumn, when these two leaders, encouraged by the international community, will come together radically to shape the future for a peaceful, two-state solution to the middle east peace process. mr triantaphyllides and his delegation, who went to palestine the other day, came back with two fundamental conclusions. let us focus on the humanitarian situation in palestine, but let us also think about the role that elected parliamentarians there and elsewhere can play in this process. we should not be forgotten.
mr president, there is nothing more demoralising than life lived in poverty, life without any prospects and life marred by a conflict. as a humanitarian catastrophy haunts the people of gaza, it is clear that the only objective israeli and palestinian leaders are securing is the transmission of pain, poverty, misery and hatred to a new generation of young palestinians. as a direct result of the israeli blockade on the movement of people and goods, children do not even have basic educational facilities. everyone is denied the basic utilities that all of us in this house take for granted. livelihoods are destroyed, as fishermen, farmers and others cannot trade. individuals suffer needless pain and death owing to limited medical services and treatment. all of this is set against a background of violence and oppression. ngos estimate that there are nearly 2 000 newly severely disabled people in gaza. they are mainly young people, who are shot at by tanks or snipers, often resulting in loss of limbs, brain damage or spinal cord injuries – but organisations working to support disabled people are being hampered by the israeli blockade and are unable to obtain the specialist supplies that they require! israeli must fulfil its international obligations, such as the geneva convention, to guarantee the flow of humanitarian assistance, humanitarian aid and essential services, and to open up the borders. the council and the commission must keep up the pressure, but they must talk to all sides. that is the only way we will find a solution. it is pointless saying we will not talk to one side. we have got to find a solution by talking to everyone. if nothing is done, people will continue to die needlessly. 1.3 million people in gaza will continue to be stripped of their dignity and the transmission of pain, poverty, misery and hatred to a new generation of palestinians will only continue.
mr president, last night i was privileged to attend the inauguration of the brussels offices of the european friends of israel, which starts from the premise that we should support the democratic state of israel’s right to exist and prosper. in contrast, hamas is committed, under its 1988 charter, to israel’s destruction and remains a terrorist organisation banned by the eu. it is no surprise to me that this resolution seeks to heap much of the blame for the current situation in gaza on israel. clearly, israel’s unilateral withdrawal from gaza as a bona fide gesture of land for peace is of very little significance to israel’s critics. the resolution refers to a humanitarian crisis in gaza without exploring the reasons why. the appeal of hamas to palestinian voters was that it provided many of the social services that were neglected by the corrupt fatah administration. yet the same schools are now devoid of children, who are too scared to leave their homes. the hospitals are treating those injured in the daily violence that has characterised the hamas violent takeover of gaza and the defeat of secular fatah. prominent gazan christian, rami ayyad, was murdered last saturday, and on sunday, eight mortars and a katyusha rocket were fired by hamas at israel indiscriminately. bizarrely, hamas has even been shelling the border crossing at khani. the resolution also calls on israel to take steps to ensure the free passage of humanitarian supplies and essential utilities. in fact, israel has not stopped the movement of such goods as food, electricity or water into gaza and is actually acting with restraint and moderation, even though hamas has been attacking israel militarily. i appreciate that israel has come to expect a steady stream of invective from this house, but israel should know that it does have some friends here, and throughout europe, who are committed to peace and security in the region. that will never happen while the agenda of hamas is so readily indulged by so many in this house.
mr president, a humanitarian crisis requires a humanitarian response, and our first priority tonight should be to deal with medical supplies and school books being held up on one side of the border, while students and ill people wait on the other. international humanitarian law does give the european union a direct obligation to act and, four months after gaza was cut off, our direct commitment to the border assistance mission is a commitment that we are failing to meet. i thank the commissioner for the cautious optimism she expressed tonight on the revival of the peace process and on the operation of the temporary international mechanism. we of course urge her to do whatever more she can. i agree with mr tannock that we should condemn rocket and mortar attacks by palestinian militants, but his complaints would be much more credible if he also condemned the killing of civilians by the israeli defence force in air missile attacks. i ask you commissioner, and the presidency-in-office too, to make urgent representations condemning the seizure, as was reported this morning, of a further 3% of west bank land between jerusalem and jericho as part of the e1 annexation plan. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, 20 years ago there were three theatres of violent conflict which caused worldwide consternation: south africa, ireland and the middle east. in the first two there has been reconciliation and political transformation. in the middle east there has been no progress made. arguably, the situation is worse. the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza obliges us to act, conscious that reconciliation and political transformation are possible, are necessary, are expedient. but, equally, it is clear that the palestinians and the israelis cannot resolve their differences by themselves. they both resort to violence, which perpetuates the impasse. the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza marks one of the lowest points in the 60 years of continuous conflict in the middle east. we call for security for the state of israel and we call for security for the state of palestine. today we have neither. a new way, a new method is required. it is clear that the united states administration has the responsibility and the ability to exercise decisive influence on israel, for example calling on them to dismantle the blockade of gaza. just as the european union must exercise equal guidance to the palestinians to desist from violence, so that both may achieve their objectives for secure statehood through the only available effective means, which are peaceful means. as this resolution will be forwarded to the parliaments of palestine, israel, egypt and the euro-mediterranean assembly, a constructive contribution could well be for us to support and promote a parliamentary dialogue to replace the existing war of attrition, which must be brought to an end so that it no longer disfigures the holy land.
in writing. – i join others in calling on israel to fulfil its obligations under the geneva conventions to guarantee the flow of humanitarian aid, humanitarian assistance and essential services, such as electricity and fuel, to the gaza strip. israel needs to lift the blockade of the gaza strip, and ensure the movement of people and goods at rafah, in compliance with the agreement on movement and access and the eu border assistance mission, as well as the movement of goods at karni. all the union’s institutions, including the council, the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission must face up to their full responsibility on the implementation of this agreement. finally, i echo the call on israel to guarantee the flow of financial assets to the gaza strip, which has been suspended since 25 september 2007, given that the lack of access to any financial assets has a serious negative impact on the economic, social and daily life of the palestinian people.
madam president, i want to congratulate commissioner borg on this very welcome and visionary action plan addressing specifically the fisheries points which are of interest to me: the integrated network for maritime surveillance, which i think is absolutely vital if we are going to improve safety and stamp out illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing; the plan to stop destructive bottom trawling in the high seas; the plan to improve the conditions of the people who work in the fishing industry, one of the most dangerous and poorly paid jobs in the eu; the improved cooperation between coastguards; the ending of discards and the promotion of aquaculture, which provides 65 000 full-time jobs in the eu – all of these are wonderful. i particularly like the idea of the road map towards maritime spatial planning and my question is on that specific issue. who will pay for this? some member states have already done this. they already have spatial plans for their maritime areas. i think there will be a commercial value for these maritime spatial plans. who is going to pay for it in the mean time?
madam president, the commissioner made some nautical historical allusions, so i would like to do the same. most people are familiar with the chorus of the anthem ‘rule britannia’, but people sometimes get one word fundamentally wrong. the correct version is not ‘rule britannia, britannia rules the waves’; it is ‘rule britannia, britannia rule the waves’. the word ‘rules’ makes the meaning a bombastic assertion. the correct word, ‘rule’, makes the meaning an exhortation and a warning. it used to be understood that britain had to rule the waves in order to maintain her freedom and independence. now the british do not even rule themselves, with over 80% of our laws made by the european union. the common fisheries policy has ruined britain’s fishing industry and caused an ecological disaster in british waters. given the eu’s record, why should we think that the eu maritime policy should be any less disastrous than the common fisheries policy?
mr president, earlier today mr pöttering made a statement on the world/european day against the death penalty and said he rejected the death penalty ‘in any form’. he seems to assume that we all agree with him. i do not. last sunday, just a mile from my home in london, an innocent boy of 17, rizwan darbar, was stabbed to death in west ham park because, it is reported, he attempted to stop a friend’s mobile phone from being stolen. this is not an unusual occurrence in britain. innocent people are being shot, stabbed and beaten to death with increasing frequency. why is this? it is because the thugs and criminals do not fear the law. even if they are caught and convicted, they often receive very lenient sentences. personally, i would like to see the reintroduction of the death penalty in britain for perpetrators of these kinds of murders. of course this could not be done unless we were outside of the european union, which is yet another good reason for leaving.
mr president, we have already had mention today of libya, and i want to give it another billing. libya, quite properly, was made to pay for the lockerbie terrorist atrocity, but libya as a global sponsor of terrorism has yet to make full reparation. the ira’s vile campaign of terror reached its most deadly when equipped with libyan semtex and weaponry, permitting martin mcguinness and its other army council leaders to unleash the most vicious phase of their campaign. without libya, hundreds of innocents would not have died. thus, tonight in this house, i want to back the present campaign by the victims’ group in northern ireland – by the name of fair – to bring libya to international account by forcing it to pay compensation, as occurred with lockerbie. just as the eu pressurised libya over the bulgarian nurses, so it should support justice for ira victims by pressing libya to settle the litigation now issued against it by fair in the united states of america.
mr president, it can be a fine line between transparency and infringement of privacy. many farmers – in my view, quite rightly – will resent the details of their single farm payment being posted over the internet because of the distorted perception of free hand-outs which it creates. the reality, of course, is that for most the single farm payment is in fact subsidising our cheap food policy. take the beef sector. a task-force report in my constituency demonstrates that in that small area beef producers are losing eur 260 million per annum. only their single farm payment keeps them going by subsidising production. so, when it is publicised that a farmer has received eur 20 000, it misleads for there is no mention that at the same time he is losing eur 40 000 or more in his production operation. to be fair, publication should be accompanied by typical profit-and-loss statistics from the commodity sales in each sector.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, first of all i would like to make an apology to you, to the vice-president of the commission and to honourable members, because after i have made my speech i will have to leave the chamber to do an interview. it is not my habit to do so, and i apologise for not staying for the rest of the debate. i would like to thank my colleague, mr el khadraoui, for his report and warn him that he perhaps may beat my record of being the longest-serving rapporteur in parliamentary history if he continues with this particular dossier! let us be honest. the marriage entered into between the european union and the us in the form of the initial civil aviation air transport agreement is a marriage of convenience, with the eu being the eager bridegroom and the us the very reluctant bride. now, when we come to consummate the marriage, we find that the us bride finds that her eu bridegroom is not very fanciable, and, seeing as she has got all the best bits out of him on their wedding day, the us bride now cannot be bothered to consummate the marriage, because representative oberstar is standing over the couple, shotgun in hand. great differences exist between the eu and us on aviation policy, and i for one would not be surprised to hear, in the weeks and months to come, that negotiations on the second stage agreement have broken down because the us would not move on key issues. my fear is that the eu bridegroom is so desperate to consummate this marriage of convenience that we yet again give in to the reluctant bride. what about ets and security, where the eu and us are worlds apart? what about foreign ownership of us airlines, or fifth freedom reciprocals? what about passenger lists and chapter 11 protection? these are all issues that divide us, and, whilst i accept that there is a willingness to sit down and negotiate, it is always, it would appear to us, on the terms dictated to us by the americans. i wish everybody well in their efforts, and the pse group will vote in favour. however, i sincerely hope the negotiations are successful, and that a more balanced, reciprocal, fair agreement is forthcoming at the end of the road. but i question whether that will happen, because of us attitudes, and i ask whether the road that we are actually on will lead to this marriage of convenience ending in a las vegas-type divorce.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am substituting for my colleague, ms in ’t veld. i bow to the knowledge of other people on the technicalities of this agreement. as an mep representing london, which includes the major airport of heathrow, i am certainly encouraged by the fact that this agreement will grant more benefits of competition to passengers and, to that extent, it is good that it has been concluded. i want to address the security aspects of the agreement, understanding from the report that this is largely left to regulation by the joint committee. i agree with the report’s welcoming of cooperation between the eu and us authorities responsible for aviation security. however, as the report says, security measures should be based on a proper risk assessment and should not be excessive or uncoordinated, and the privacy of european and us citizens should be respected when personal passenger data are exchanged between the eu and the us. members will be aware of the considerable controversy surrounding the passenger name records (pnr) agreement. the european parliament has expressed itself very forcefully on the fact that it has not played the major role that it would have wanted in that agreement. certainly, the opinion of the european data protection supervisors is that safeguards under the new agreement have been considerably weakened in comparison to previous agreements and that the new agreement leaves open serious questions and shortcomings. while commissioner barrot welcomed the major role parliament has played in modernising the regulatory framework for other aspects of the aviation business, i am afraid we have to express disappointment that we have not succeeded in having the input we wanted on privacy and the enforcement of personal data safeguards. the data under the pnr agreement will be retained for 15 years, which, i put to you, is excessive and which this report says we do not want. the us will be able to have access to sensitive data and even to use it in cases of petty crime, which is not fighting terrorism. all in all, while welcoming this agreement overall, i am afraid to say that the aspirations of this report that security measures should be properly assessed for their contribution to combating risk, should not be excessive and should protect privacy have not been secured in the area of the exchange of passenger name records.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, first of all, thank you, mrs jensen, and the committee on transport and tourism. thank you for your support of the commission's action plan and for your commitment to the community's air transport policy. one of the challenges of aviation policy is to combat congestion at european airports. our action plan aims to develop a comprehensive and coherent airport policy. the aim is to optimise the performance of existing airport capacity and to improve the planning of new infrastructure, avoiding the juxtaposition of purely local solutions and the formation of bottlenecks. as the european parliament very well understands, the optimal functioning of the european airport network can only be guaranteed if local actions are part of a comprehensive and coherent policy. the commission's proposals are realistic, because they do not ignore the economic and environmental constraints which must be taken into account. that is why, mrs jensen, priority is given first to a better use of existing airport capacity, through the development and harmonized implementation of new technologies. it is clear that if we arrive at a single sky with functional air traffic control units, we will obviously be able to make much better use of the existing infrastructure. it is true that building new infrastructure will be an increasing problem, particularly in large urban areas where demand for air transport is high. but nevertheless, in this action plan we are tackling the problem of the construction of new infrastructure, which is sometimes indispensable, and we want to plan this new infrastructure better to better appreciate its usefulness, its location, to strengthen its environmental compatibility. the transport council adopted conclusions on 2 october, madam president, which are less ambitious than those of the european parliament. many member states, perhaps too eager to listen to those in charge of their airports, are averse to community coordination and prefer to continue to favour local solutions implemented by individual airports. so these reluctance make it more difficult to implement the action plan, but the support of the european parliament will enable the commission to work concretely on initiatives based on the contributions mrs jensen has brought before us. i thank her and the committee on transport for the quality of their work and for helping us to advance this important matter for the harmonious and sustainable development of the whole air transport sector.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, advances in the aviation industry have contributed massively to economic progress and general well-being, and they can continue to do so. this industry does not deserve the environmentalist hostility which is often heaped upon it. this attitude is also politically unwise, as all our constituents benefit enormously in both their work and their leisure. aviation has done much to meet its environmental obligations by developing and adopting new technology and improving operational efficiencies. it rests with the political authorities and the administrative and regulatory authorities to play their part in permitting and enthusiastically encouraging continuing improvement. ms jensen’s excellent report incorporates much of what my committee proposed. but there are three matters which the committee on economic and monetary affairs put forward in its opinion and which did not find their way into the final report. firstly, with the advent of quieter aircraft, it should be possible to relax limitations on airport opening times and move towards 24-hour operation almost everywhere. this would greatly enhance capital and capacity utilisation of airport infrastructures and of the aircraft themselves, facilitating better productivity and cheaper services with less than proportionate environmental impact. secondly, the selection of efficient ground handlers can also enhance productivity by improving utilisation of airport infrastructure, notably where they speed up aircraft turnarounds and contribute to good timekeeping and passenger satisfaction. thirdly, we advocated applying market forces by the open auctioning of airport slots, moving away from grandfather rights while retaining a defined proportion of slots at hub airports for those vital regional feeder services. those bodies responsible for providing the environment in which airlines operate must facilitate greater productivity by providing adequate and efficient infrastructure and imposing only appropriate regulatory conditions.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. – madam president, as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i have only one point to make in this debate, and that is in regard to the commission proposal on radio identification tagging. the original proposal to tag both passengers’ baggage and the boarding pass of each passenger to me poses a significant breach, or potential breach, of civil liberties. i can see little benefit in being able to tag passengers’ movement around airport terminals and would also call into question how much it would cost for airports to implement such measures. there are clear benefits in being able to quickly identify where certain pieces of baggage or luggage are at any point in time with radio frequency identifiers, and this is where i draw the line. my amendment to restrict the tagging of baggage, which was adopted in both the civil liberties committee and the committee on transport, to me strikes the right balance between being able to reduce delays to flights and to respect the personal freedoms of passengers as they circulate through airports and terminal buildings. with this in mind, i can therefore fully support the text before us today.
mr president, this report makes good sense in saying that there should be an overall eu approach as regards the need for extra airport capacity. this might mean that there would be seen to be less justification for all airports which see themselves as major hubs to expand. if you look at paris charles de gaulle, schiphol, frankfurt and london heathrow all together, the conclusion might be, for instance, that there was no justification for a third runway at heathrow. i would not, though, want the report’s call for a master plan for enhanced airport capacity to be misunderstood as brussels muscling in and telling national, regional and local authorities where to build new airports; obviously, it just means pooling information and objectives. subsidiarity rules on any decisions whether or not to expand airports. but there is a second danger of misunderstanding. the report cites forecasts of demand increasing by around 5% a year and says that, in 2025, the demand for flights would be two and a half times higher than 2003. this, i am sure, should not be taken as succumbing to the discredited ‘predict and provide’ policy. i am not sure that the call in the report to accompany the growth of air transport by measures limiting its external cost is quite enough, because we know there is a lot we can and must do to at least moderate aviation growth to a sustainable level – whether through emissions trading, proper and fair taxation, building high-speed rail alternatives and so on – in order to combat global warming and safeguard against the dangers of air pollution and noise nuisance. i was surprised to see that there was no opinion from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, so i am sure – and i hope – that the risk of lack of consistency between this report and the resolution last year on reducing the climate change impact of aviation will be avoided. this report must be seen in the light of that resolution, and not in any way – and i am sure it is not the intention, at least of the rapporteur – giving comfort to this idea that you simply build airports based on predictions, many of them from airlines, about increased demand, without all the other measures that we know we need to take to have sustainable aviation.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
the vote was scheduled for 11.00 and we have tried to start on time.
thank you for your clarification.
mr tajani, one of the co-rapporteurs will speak on that matter when we get to that point. i think you are right but, for the moment, let us proceed.
madam president, i kept the numbers of votes ‘for’ and ‘against’ for the last two recorded votes and they were identical. that was when we had the first problem. you may care to take the vote on amendment 21 by the ind/dem group again.
i think you are absolutely right. i, too, was worried by what was happening at that stage. (the vote was suspended again for a few moments)
the problem is, we are in mid-report, so i am afraid we do have to conclude it before we can take something else. before the vote on amendment 1:
this amendment will dispose of all the others. our congratulations to our co-rapporters, and our thanks to our technicians.
i now have great pleasure in greeting here today a delegation of mps and other visitors from the new zealand parliament and the mission of new zealand to the european union, who are now with us in the distinguished visitors’ gallery. (applause) the members of the delegation are in brussels to meet with their counterparts from the european parliament at the 14th european parliament/new zealand interparliamentary meeting. they are leaving brussels for west flanders after their meetings this afternoon, where they will attend a number of events tomorrow commemorating the 90th anniversary of the battle of passchendaele. i wish the delegation well for the remainder of their stay in the european union.
madam president, i would like to add the words ‘the state of’ before israel in paragraph 5. the reason for this is that some members, including mr davies, inform me that hamas recognises israel, but not the state of israel. it is the state of israel that needs recognition.
in writing. i voted for this report, which approves a commission proposal amending (and preparing for the repeal of) regulation 1543/2000 (a community framework for the collection and management of the data needed to conduct the common fisheries policy). the commission aims to bring in a new, more comprehensive data collection regulation in 2008; this amendment allows for a better transition by removing current requirements to submit six-year national programmes for the collection and management of data from 2007 to 2012. instead, transitional programmes covering the years 2007 and 2008 are to be drawn up.
in writing. ukip wish to see the common agricultural policy abolished. therefore, under no circumstances can we vote for a report that gives even more power to a commission whose legitimacy we do not recognise.
in writing. i voted for this report, which proposes a range of improvements to the transparency of the cap. it calls on national lists of recipients of eu direct farm aid to be published on the internet. the uk already does this, and i would like to see other states doing the same. the report also calls for better procedures to take when publication requirements are not followed, and for data protection to be included in the commission regulation itself.
in writing. ukip abstained on this report as we do not recognise the legitimacy of parliament. this in no way reflects our views on the content of the report. ukip wish to see the common agricultural policy abolished. therefore, under no circumstances can we vote for a report that gives even more power to a commission whose legitimacy we do not recognise.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which endorses plans to liberalise air transport arrangements between the eu and the united states of america. this levels the playing field for european airlines flying to the us, and should allow more rational construction of routes, leading to better services and more efficient routing of flights. in increasing the number of possible transatlantic routes it may even lead to lower fares for passengers.
in writing. i am convinced that there is a need for such an agreement but it has to be one which can be delivered on both sides. airports in south-east england have had to open ‘aircraft slots’ for usa partner airlines and potentially many others. the reverse is not true in the usa. ‘freedom rights’ are not granted to eu airlines for intra-usa flights. this means that flights emanating from gatwick to new york cannot fly to los angeles, but usa flights to gatwick can fly to anywhere they want in the eu. similarly, there is no relaxation of the foreign ownership rules of usa airlines. there is a clear lack of balance in the first stage agreement; this lack of balance against the eu has to be addressed urgently in the second stage negotiations. i will be looking to reinforce this effort within the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue.
i am sorry for my pronunciation – my spanish lessons are continuing.
in writing. in regard to the future composition of the european parliament, i voted against the unwarranted attempt (amendment 26) to inflate the representation of the republic of ireland to 13 meps. northern ireland has a population of 1.7 million and three meps; the republic of ireland’s population is 4.3 million, yet under amendment 26 it would have 13 meps, meaning a representative for every 330 000 citizens, whereas in northern ireland the ratio is one mep to every 630 000 citizens. clearly, the republic of ireland already is very generously provided for and should count itself lucky to hold 12 seats.
in writing. i voted against amendment 25 because, while the uk is still a member of the eu, the number of meps representing the uk should not be reduced at all. therefore, to vote in favour of 74 meps would have been to vote for a reduction of four. under the proposed principle of ‘degressive proportionality’, which is yet to be defined, small countries and microstates would be disproportionately represented while larger states, such as the uk, would be under-represented. considering that large numbers of the population of eastern europe have migrated to the uk since 2004, and that they are currently entitled to vote in european parliament elections, the number of uk meps should at least remain at its current 78, if not be increased.
in writing. i have to express my disquiet about the principle embodied in the very notion of presenting this report to plenary. having a parliament determine the basis of its own composition seems to me to be fundamentally flawed. as one of my irish colleagues said in the debate, ‘turkeys don’t vote for christmas’. i have been a member of this house since 1984, when we had 434 members, and now we have 785 members. with each successive growth in numbers of parliamentarians, working groups, committees and plenaries have become unwieldy and increasingly ineffective. this is to be institutionalised here with a supposed ‘reduction’ to 750 members, a size 30-40% too large to be effective, unless we want to model ourselves on china’s largely ornamental 3 000-strong national people’s congress. the other anomaly that strikes me is that, while we are allowed to select our composition, a vitally important institutional decision for the whole of the european institutions and the union itself, we are not allowed to choose our own meeting place because of the recalcitrance of one member state and instead are ‘sold a pup’ by the city of strasbourg that is riddled with asbestos.
in writing. british conservatives are opposed to the eu constitution and to the draft eu reform treaty. we do not agree with the terms of the draft igc mandate delivered by the european council or the text of the draft treaty published on 5 october. in the context of the request by the council for an opinion by the european parliament on the future composition of the european parliament, british conservatives have abstained on the lamassoure-severin report. we have done so because we disagree with the model and methodology proposed by the co-rapporteurs, which we believe is unsustainable in the long term. we also disagree with the call for the election of meps on transnational lists. we also deeply regret the fact that the important historical parity on this issue that existed between the uk, france and italy has been abandoned. we are nonetheless determined to pursue the best interests of the people of the united kingdom who we believe are currently numerically under-represented in the european parliament. these factors have determined our position in voting on this report.
in writing. i voted for and welcome the lamassoure-severin report on the composition of the european parliament. however, i find it rather strange that parliament has the right to decide on the distribution of its seats but not on where it sits. it is clear that the council is incapable of sorting out the mess of parliament having three locations and i call on it to follow the logic of giving parliament the right to allocate its seats by giving it the right to decide where it meets. this report recommends a new, fairer composition for the european parliament to apply to the 2009-2014 parliament. the report’s operating principle of degressive proportionality, which calls for bigger member states to accept fewer meps than a strict proportional distribution would allow, is one i agree with. it will ensure that smaller member states have viable parliamentary delegations, and that parliament can return to a slightly more reasonable size of 750.
in writing. i voted against amendment 25 because, while the uk is still a member of the eu, the number of meps representing the uk should not be reduced at all. therefore, to vote in favour of 74 meps would have been to vote for a reduction of four. under the proposed principle of ‘degressive proportionality’, which is yet to be defined, small countries and microstates would be disproportionately represented while larger states, such as the uk, would be under-represented. considering that large numbers of the population of eastern europe have migrated to the uk since 2004, and that they are currently entitled to vote in european parliamentary elections, the number of uk meps should at least remain at its current 78, if not be increased.
in writing. i support this resolution. the current humanitarian situation in gaza can only cause deep concern. the israeli blockade of the gaza strip must be lifted and electricity and fuel must be supplied. also, israel must guarantee the flow of financial assets to the gaza strip suspended since september 2007, the lack of which has seriously impacted the economic, social and daily life of the palestinian people. the council and the commission must use all the pressure they can exert to persuade the israeli government to move and to guarantee future essential humanitarian aid for the palestinian people.
in writing. i voted in favour of this resolution, which draws attention to the plight of people in the gaza strip. it calls on israel to fulfil its international obligations under the geneva conventions to guarantee the flow of humanitarian aid, humanitarian assistance and essential services, such as electricity and fuel, to the gaza strip. in calling for an international peace conference, an end to the blockade, and in asking for the commission and the council to work towards this, i join most other meps in advancing ideas that can make the situation on the ground better for those suffering the consequences of the status quo.
in writing. i wish to stress the importance of the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip. whilst i accept that the political situation is one that is dictating the plight of the people of gaza, nevertheless it is the people – men, women and children – who are suffering, and heaven knows what long-term effects this will have. i agree that israel must feel secure in its own borders, but there are also obligations on israel to ensure that humanitarian aid and assistance are given to the gaza strip. in gaza there is a responsibility to end attacks on israel, and we all have a responsibility to support a viable state for palestinians, so that the palestinian people can live securely in peace. i support this report because it is absolutely essential at this time that we in the eu make our voice heard on behalf of the people of gaza. they need help and we should deliver.
in writing. i wish to support the endeavours of those in this house who have brought to our attention the crucial problems particularly facing those in the gaza strip and in the state of israel and palestinian areas. the only way ahead is to move within the united nations security council resolutions and to convene an international peace conference along these lines.
in writing. ukip abstained on this report because we do not recognise the legitimacy of parliament. this in no way reflects our views on the content of the report.
in writing. i fully support the report. sustainable development is impossible without taking account of gender equality and the right to dignity and peaceful existence. such crimes should not be viewed as simply an expression of culture; nor should they be dismissed if they are committed against women who may earn their living as sex workers. if no serious and consistent efforts are made to investigate, prosecute and punish the perpetrators, this indicates that violence is acceptable and then no one is safe. the proposals outlined in the report deserve our support and i trust that parliament will monitor their progress. the human rights dimension of our external policies is extremely important: we have to work for the rights of people to live safely and securely in order to exercise their democratic rights and freedoms at all levels of society and whatever their occupation and status.
in writing. i voted for this report, which i strongly support, and which is part of a global strategy for the eradication and prevention of feminicide and proposes eu actions in the framework of partnership agreements. i hope to see this issue taken up by the national governments in the framework of their bilateral relations with the countries of latin america, and european institutions within their strategic partnership, to support the prevention and protection policies relating to violence.
in writing. i voted for this report recommending that, in order to prevent fraud, transit movements be computerised, the legal framework be revised and the commission and the member states improve physical checks based on common risk analysis. the uk is affected by this issue: up to 4% of potential vat revenue is being lost to fraud in this area.
in writing. the eplp supports the aims of the philip morris agreement to combat fraud and illicit cigarette trade in the eu. however, the uk government has not signed up to the agreement since it could conflict with existing uk legislation on tobacco smuggling. existing legislation applies to all tobacco manufacturers, which is important in ensuring that smuggling activity is not simply displaced into products manufactured by companies that have chosen not to sign an agreement, or who might at some point choose to withdraw from one. this legislation also contains no significant exclusions, which better allows the uk to address the particular types of tobacco smuggling problems that it encounters.
in writing. i voted for this report, which calls on the commission to present before 2009 a master plan for enhanced airport capacity in europe, in order to promote and better coordinate european initiatives for building new airport capacities dedicated to international traffic and to make better use of existing capacities. only the cohabitation of various airport models according to national specificities will enable the eu to fulfil its need in this field.
thank you, again, to our interpreters and technicians today. i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting closed at 12.05)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it has indeed been the practice of this house in the past, on matters of major importance such as the eu-russia summit, to have a debate followed by a resolution. there are many things that need to be said and many messages that this parliament needs to send to those who will represent the union at that summit. we should indeed send a firm message to the russians and a firm message to the people who will represent us at the summit, with the beliefs of this house behind it. my group would therefore support that move. (applause)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, if nobody else is speaking against, i will speak against. those who are putting forward this motion for a resolution seem to believe that the debates of this house only matter if we adopt a resolution at the end of the debate. they are actually devaluing the debate itself, because all of them are outside negotiating the text of a resolution instead of being inside the house debating it. the points they and others wish to make ahead of this summit can be made in this house by a very vigorous debate, by people making articulate and intelligent points, instead of going out and working all night in a drafting committee to add to the huge book that we write at the end of each part-session, with pages and pages of resolutions. it is about time we changed our priorities and revalued the debates on the floor of this house. i plead for members to have vigorous debates in this parliament.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i will speak on behalf of my group. as you will realise, a few days ago there was the most monumental suicide bomb attack against the party with the returning ms benazir bhutto, with over a hundred civilians killed. there has been the recent deportation by the government of pakistan of another returning civilian politician, nawaz sharif. all sorts of things have been happening in that very key strategic south asian country which need to be urgently debated by this parliament. i am not aware of any recent changes in the situation in uzbekistan, other than the fact that the council is deliberating on whether or not to remove the travel bans on uzbek leaders. that pales into insignificance compared to what is going on in pakistan, so i would urge this house to support the need to debate the pakistani situation on thursday.
mr president, gordon brown said today that there will be no need for another eu treaty for at least 10 years. he knows full well that there will never be a need for another treaty. the proposed reform treaty is a self-amending treaty. what little will be left of sovereign power can be transferred to the eu by decisions of the european council without recourse to parliament, let alone the people. the reform treaty formally states the legitimacy and supremacy of eu law over national law. if the british houses of parliament accept and practise the provisions of the reform treaty as superior and at the expense of existing english and scottish law, then it is an act of treason under the existing treason laws. any member of the house of commons or house of lords that votes for ratification of the reform treaty is therefore, literally, a traitor to their country. (laughter) go and look at the treason laws if you do not believe me!
mr president, on thursday this week, this house will vote on the 2008 budget. bearing in mind that the court of auditors is due to report back next month, i want to draw your attention to the interinstitutional agreement signed between the three institutions in 2006. under article 44 of that agreement, all member states are obliged to give certification for financial transactions involving eu monies. i am advised that under the current programme the commission will not receive relevant information from the member states until 15 february 2008. only at that point can the common standards in accountancy and internal controls be identified. this means that it is unlikely the court of auditors will receive the required information for a further two years. that is not acceptable. not only does it contravene the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement, but the ongoing failure to achieve a satisfactory audit report seriously undermines the credibility of this house. i urge you, mr president, to take every opportunity to insist that member states attach far greater urgency to this matter in the future.
mr president, along with many members of this house – perhaps most members, in fact, given our resolutions – i am dismayed that the european union intends to allow the zimbabwean tyrant, mugabe, to be invited to the eu-africa summit in lisbon in december. commissioner michel tells me that the reasons for this – and i would suggest rather perversely – are that we should try not to isolate mugabe, as this just reinforces his image, and that the eu wants to be seen as a global strategic player. to invite mugabe to lisbon is an affront to our principles and is a direct contradiction of the eu’s own stated positions. it is a failure of our africa diplomacy that any african government still has any regard for mugabe. mr president, i know you share our concerns about the appalling situation in zimbabwe. can i ask you to do two things: first of all, to convey yet again the strong feelings of this house that mugabe should not be invited to lisbon in december, and secondly, to respect the wishes of this house and not attend any eu summit to which mugabe or any other banned zimbabwean politicians are invited?
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, we have to face up to the very practical idea that we need to produce food in europe – last month we reduced set-aside to zero to bring 10% of land back into production – and we need the necessary tools to do that job. we are all quite happy to want safe food and safe chemicals, but – and the commission is dealing with this in the right way – this has to be done on a risk-based system similar to that used for reach: if a chemical is safe to use then it can be used, but if it is not safe to use then it should be taken off the market. that is how we should deal with this the whole way through. climatic conditions make a great deal of difference to when you should spray, so you need flexibility in when and how you spray. there are now satellite systems which can introduce the spray at the right time, and you can actually reduce the amount of spray and chemical you use. take for instance this year, which was an extremely wet year in many parts of europe. in my own country, britain, you cannot buy organic potatoes because you could not spray them and could not keep the blight away from them. there are, therefore, very few organic potatoes to be had. we need the necessary tools, and that is why we cannot go for a percentage-based reduction each year. we have got to go for a sensible, risk-based system. also, when it comes to the 10-metre strips, there are – believe it or not – chemicals that you can use in water courses. there is a chemical called roundup which can actually be sprayed on the banks of a river or a stream. are we going to ban its use on a 10-metre strip next to a stream when it can actually be used on the banks of a stream? let us be sensible about this. we need food security, we need food production and we need safe food in europe. let us all work together to achieve that.
madam president, i am tempted to say that a political pesticide to deal with the rampant weed that is eu regulation would do us all a favour. when i look at some of these amendments and proposals, a proposal like the 10-metre rule, i detect within it a gross degree of overkill. i think we have to face some facts. without controlled use of pesticides in our agriculture, we will drive more food production to less regulated regions of the world, jeopardising quality and food safety. perhaps of even more interest to some, without fungicides and herbicides to protect and cure disease in fine turf, many golf and bowling surfaces would become weed-infested and unplayable. yes, pesticides must be controlled, but our measures must be based on sound science and be practical at farm and street level. the strident codes of practice governing the use in my country are, i believe, adequate, and therefore i will vote against those dogma-driven changes which some would wish to impose.
madam president, uk pesticides were tightly controlled in 1985. firms like syngenta say that farmers should not be denied the tools they need. these regulations move us away from the principle of good, science-based regulation. for example, pavement weed control is 400 times more expensive without chemicals. the golf and field sports industry says that without pesticides it is not possible to maintain the turf. the crop protection agency says that banning pesticides means between 65% and 200% more land under cultivation, reducing productivity. corbett farms say that this year has shown the value of spraying to prevent potato blight. pesticides are expensive and the lowest amount is used to protect our crop. decisions on how and when to spray must be taken on an individual field basis. an arbitrary reduction in use cannot be scientifically based. madam president, please eradicate the eu’s pestilent regulations. ukip will vote against.
rapporteur. – madam president, i rise to propose, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, that we change the way in which we in this parliament keep a record of our debates. we are all familiar with the verbatim report that we get the day after the debates, with each speaker’s speech rendered in their own language. that will continue as now. there will be no change to the record, in the original language, of what everybody has said. what the committee on constitutional affairs is proposing is to change the way in which we preserve the multilingual record of our debates. instead of gradually translating the debates and then, some months later, having a full written translated record in every language, we propose a switch to a system whereby the debates are electronically preserved and where any citizen can access them through the internet the very next day and see a visual record of the debate, with the soundtracks for every single language, preserved from the interpretation booths. this will provide a more lively form of access to the debates than just a dry text. it will be available immediately, rather than several months later. i must confess that i was myself initially rather sceptical of this idea. i always thought that keeping a full paper record of what everyone said, which was archived and which people could look at for many years to come, was an inherent part of being a parliament. however, on reflection, and having listened to the arguments, i am now convinced that we can keep that multilingual access, albeit in a new form. the problem with the old system is that the translations not only cost a substantial amount of money but also, more importantly, are only available several months later. at the moment, they are placed on the web, where they are available electronically. they are no longer printed in the official journal. very few people access them, look them up or use them, because of the time lag. with this new system of preserving the debates, on ‘web television’ if you like, they will be available the very next day, when they still have political immediacy and when people are still interested in them. we were also worried that historians, who, for all kinds of research reasons, tend to look back at parliamentary debates long after we have forgotten them, might be upset that we would no longer have a printed written version but only a visual multilingual version. we wrote to various associations of historians and others, and to my surprise they replied that they, too, thought it would be much more interesting to have a more lively record than just the printed text in translation. viewing a debate on a monitor gives you the flavour of that debate. you can see the body language of the speakers, and you get much more than by just reading a dry text. nonetheless, our report proposes a number of safeguards. firstly, the plurilingual verbatim report that we already get the next day will continue. it will be there in all the original languages, as before. secondly, any member of this parliament will have the guaranteed right to request a translation, if he or she needs it for his or her political work. the translation of any speech must be made rapidly available to the requesting member. thirdly, we provide that the bureau may decide to ask for a written translation of a particularly important debate, which will then still be published in written form in every language. fourthly, when extra language versions are available anyway, because they happen to have been translated – for instance, for a formal sitting at which a head of state is speaking, and courtesy translations have been provided – they too will be placed on parliament’s website. therefore, when translations are available in other languages, we will make use of them. finally, we ask the bureau to look at technological developments to see if, for instance, in the future, computer translations can provide an extra tool, giving at least a rough idea of what was said in debates. in conclusion, this is a fair proposal whose advantages outweigh the disadvantages. it is not just a matter of costs; it is also about being a modern parliament and making our debates accessible much more rapidly, in a form which is much more useful.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, mr friedrich and i have tabled some amendments, which are not seeking to substitute new technology for old but to supplement the old with the new. it seems extremely unfair to stop the practice of 50 years of publishing a written script as soon as new member states join parliament, and it is, i think, essential for historians, for research purposes, that we carry on with our past practice. the printed word is the primary source and must be kept for reasons of consistency, transparency and simplicity of research at a time when we are seeking to promote the study of the european parliament. we should show some self-respect as an institution and maintain forever the present practice.
rapporteur. – madam president, mr podkański seems to be implying that the committee on constitutional affairs was acting in violation of the rules of procedure. the rules of procedure require every language to be treated equally, and what the committee is proposing is simply that, instead of a written verbatim translation in every language, we have an audiovisual translation in every language. there is no discrimination between languages in this proposal. it is simply a question of whether we have a written record or an audiovisual record. in both cases, all the languages must be treated equally.
rapporteur. – madam president, let me start with an accusatory question to the commissioner. some of us have pointed out repeatedly over the years that the car makers were failing to comply with the terms of the voluntary agreement to reduce emissions. so, why is it that, some five years after this first became evident, we still do not have legislation before us requiring the manufacturers to meet the agreed targets, because with each month of delay it becomes harder to achieve the ambitions which were originally possible? this sets the framework for today’s debate. average emissions from new cars stand now at a little less than 160 g of co2 per kilometre – a long way adrift from the target of 140 g by 2008. therefore, it is not surprising that members here want car makers to be punished for breaking their commitment. yet the fact is that the manufacturers have broken no laws and, however much we may wish it were otherwise, the level of emissions is where it is. the commission has announced that it wants to stick to the medium-term target setting that voluntary agreement of 120 g by 2012, but says that 10 g of this will now be achieved by complementary measures. i call this a political fudge: it has reduced the clarity of the target and encouraged some manufacturers to think that they can use biofuels as a means of avoiding significant design changes. but, given where we are, are the target and the timetable set by the commission still appropriate, because, of late, the reduction in average emissions has been hardly more than 1 g a year? the commission suggests that this should instantly be transformed into 5 g a year. well, that can be achieved – and the technology exists to do it – but at what cost? emission reductions must be made a priority for car makers, but they have to be achieved at the lowest possible expense. that means giving industry specific targets and sufficient time to make the changes. these improvements may increase the price of new cars but, then, reduced emissions mean improved fuel economy, so those who buy the cars will save money as they drive them. get it right and we can take action which will be good for the environment, good for the consumer and good for the future of car making. there is a debate in this parliament about whether, in a pre-legislative report of this kind, environmentalists should be pressing to send a strong signal to the commission to be tough, or whether we should try to be realistic in framing measures which might actually be those that end up close to the final form at the end of the day. that is why i am asking parliament to break from the commission position and recommend that the target for average emissions from new cars should be set not for 2012 but for 2015 and should be 125 g to be achieved by technical means alone. by all means let us encourage the use of complementary measures to reduce emissions, but as an addition, not as a substitute, for these technical improvements. for those members who say this is not sufficient, let me just say that next month we will be voting on the cars 21 report and, in that, the recommendation is 135 g by 2015. we can end up voting for one thing this month and something else next month. if i can help bring together the different positions of the committee on industry, research and energy and of the committee on environment, public health and food safety, then i believe it will strengthen parliament’s position and influence. i believe that manufacturers should be set absolutely clear targets with no room for wriggling. this report insists that failure to comply should result in the application of tough financial penalties. i propose an internal trading mechanism to give manufacturers maximum flexibility and give incentives to the makers of low-emission vehicles. but, ultimately, it is the penalty regime that matters and that, i suspect, will test the commission’s resolve. equally important is the need to set long-term targets to reduce emissions to below 100 g by 2020. given sufficient time, and an absolute requirement, i have no doubt that manufactures can achieve reductions of nearly 40% over the next 13 years. finally, let me just touch upon the way in which cars are promoted. the manufacturers always claim that they respond to consumer demand, but i do not believe this. i believe they shape consumer demand. studies have shown that a very high proportion of advertising expenditure goes towards the promotion of cars on the basis of power and size and speed. the car industry is supposed to be drawing up a voluntary code of advertising conduct but we have had our fingers burnt through voluntary codes and any such measure should be regarded with suspicion. it is time that advertisements give consumers more details of the fuel economy and emission performance of the vehicles on sale. this information should be upfront and not buried away in the small print. we need to encourage car makers to compete on the basis that their cars are safe and stylish and environmentally-friendly. let me finish with these remarks. europe’s car makers produce fine vehicles. the technical expertise of the companies themselves is much to be admired, but for too long they have ignored the contribution their products are making to the threat posed by climate change. for the sake of the planet, for the good of an industry that needs to stay at the cutting edge of world-class technology, it is time now for law-makers to steer them firmly in a greener direction.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, can i first of all thank mr davies very much indeed for all the work that he has put into this report, and for his extremely constructive cooperation. i am happy, on behalf of my group, to endorse the target of 125 g by 2015 that mr davies has outlined. it is a target which, i think, is extremely environmentally ambitious, but it is also achievable by what is a very successful european industry employing hundreds of thousands of people, and we must ensure that it remains a successful european industry. i am convinced that those european car manufacturers will continue to produce some of the most environmentally friendly cars in the world, and these new targets – which, we should never forget, are the tightest in the world – will help them to achieve even cleaner cars in the future. but the missing link in this debate is, of course, that of consumer demand. we must make sure that consumers are demanding cleaner, more environmentally friendly cars, and, there, the member states themselves have a very important role to play through their tax systems, which is, rightly, a matter for them. they can, however, considerably affect consumer demand by introducing the correct environmentally friendly taxation schemes. we also, in my view, need contributions to co2 reduction from all of the related sectors: from the oil companies, from the biofuel producers, from the tyre manufacturers etc., all of whom have a contribution to make and can help us to achieve our ambitious targets. i have also tabled some amendments to water down what i think are some very prescriptive requirements on advertisers, which mr davies has included in his report. i think they are grossly disproportionate to the problem, and i am sure that, given sufficient opportunity, the manufacturers and the advertisers can come up with a binding voluntary code which would be equally effective. i have also tabled – jointly with mr davies – an amendment to recognise the contribution of small-volume manufacturers who do not have a huge product range with which to average out the emissions requirements. i hope the commission will take those into account when formulating the legislation.
madam president, on behalf of my colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i would like to thank mr davies for the way he has approached this, particularly his willingness to listen, and for a number of innovative approaches that we see in his report. i also want to thank our rapporteur, mr bulfon, and to thank mr davies for adopting a number of our proposals in his report. we have heard a lot of debate and discussion this evening about the car industry missing targets and about how we are going to move forward. but i would like to echo what the commissioner said and use the word ‘incentive’. this programme, and to meet the programme that mr davies has set out, is going to need billions and billions of euros of investment in new products and is going to tie up immense resources in engineering and product development. (objections)i see my green colleagues already shaking their heads; they seem to think that the technology is there, that overnight we can change a fundamental industry in that direction. this is entirely unrealistic – where is the investment going to come from? it is going to come from the profits of the car companies. we need to sustain those profits so that they can reinvest them. this demand here will be the biggest change and turnaround we have ever seen in a major industry. let us just remember that. let us not just sit here and make unrealistic demands. this is a practical approach. but, colleagues, let me remind you – and i refuse to accept this sort of crowing – i am absolutely not a lobbyist for the car industry. i have argued for a long time that we need to set demanding targets. we are moving towards a legislative approach for the first time. but you should be listening as well. and let me just make this other point. ideas about complementary measures and other things: what we are talking about here is a complete change in the way that people approach transport and motoring. these new vehicles will come on the market over a long period of time. but actually the complementary measures we are talking about – the consumer measures, the consumer information – those are the real incentives that we need to bring in. i am sorry to overrun, madam president, but you will admit i was interrupted by some colleagues in an entirely unnecessary way.
mr president, i will not comment on this new cosying up between the british liberal democrats and the conservatives, as has been displayed by mr callanan and mr davies here tonight. maybe it is the new leadership battle for the lib-dems that has been going on, since some of their new leaders even have lookalikes! what i want to talk about is the importance of sticking with ambitious targets. i do not think industry can have been very surprised that the commission talked about 2012 as a date for the targets or about the level of the target, because, of course, we know these have been mooted for many years. back in march, the eu leaders signed up to cut overall co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. if we are going to get there, we need to bring forward legislation which helps us to get there. so, here we are at the very first hurdle towards that, and i do not think it is time now to fail in this european parliament. people out there are watching. they want to know we are serious about tackling climate change. of course we have to work with industry, and mr davies talks about punishing industry. nobody wants to punish industry because the car industry, as mr harbour has just said, is a major european industry; it is a major employer and we have to work with them because only they can deliver these changes that we need to see. so we need to work with them and we need to listen and i think what we need beyond everything else is a long-term project which everybody has signed up to so that everybody knows where we are going and everybody can try to get there. finally, on labelling and advertising. we need a clear system, a green car labelling system, that every consumer can understand, just as they understand, when they buy white goods, how those white goods work. the white goods manufacturers of inefficient goods have actually seen their products fall off the market. we need to see the same for cars and i hope we can work together with industry to get a green labelling system that everybody understands.
mr president, there is much to commend in this report. of course it makes the ritual genuflection to climate change hysteria, despite the increasing doubts over the supposed link between co2 and climate. however, it also recognises the importance of diversifying energy supplies and of using fossil fuels, including coal, in the energy mix. it emphasises the need for energy security, and in this context rightly points to the need for energy efficiency, for continuing use of domestic resources, including coal, and for nuclear energy – both the current use of fission and the vital research on fusion, which is the great hope for the future. the most remarkable factor in the energy debate is the way that the greens and their fellow travellers agonise over carbon emissions but oppose the only mainstream low-carbon-generation technology. with oil at usd 90 a barrel, it is time for ms harms to recognise that nuclear power is the cheapest, safest, cleanest, most sustainable and most predictable base-load-generating technology available. as my colleague mr vidal-quadras has said, nuclear waste disposal is simply a technical problem which has now been solved.
mr president, commissioner, it is good to see you burning the midnight oil along with us. in europe, we have a vast renewable energy potential. in scotland, we know that better than most. as ms harms has said, my group has a number of difficulties with the pro-nuclear aspects of this report. but my own view is that we must also make sure that we do research into other, non-nuclear sources of power and research into ways to make them better. in paragraph 47, carbon-capture is experimental but it is promising, and in paragraph 47 we call on the commission to lay down, as soon as possible, clear political guidelines for the promotion of research into carbon capture and storage. commissioner, i am delighted to hear you are going to do that. it is important because, left to their own devices, the member states will not come up with it. in scotland, we had at peterhead a world-leading proposal for a demonstrator site. because of political uncertainty entirely caused by the london government not making it a priority, the project is going ahead – and it is going ahead in california. europe can have a lead in this; we can be globally significant in the research potential that we have, but we must have real action. i am glad to hear that this report has some ideas which the commission is taking forward.
rapporteur. – mr president, this decision concerns the setting up of the european statistical governance advisory board. statistics are used by member states, by the eu, internationally and by many other stakeholders for a variety of purposes. they are used, for example, by the european central bank, for economic analysis; the commission, through eurostat, produces statistics that are compiled from data produced by member states. a few years ago questions arose over the credibility of statistics being provided by some member states to the eu institutions, and it was clear that some kind of quality control was needed. as the commissioner has said, in response, a code of conduct on statistical procedures was compiled. in order to provide a check for consistency and adherence to the code of practice, each national statistical office is checked by peer review which involves another member state and eurostat. as a further check, it was also proposed to introduce an independent, high-level advisory board. it is that board, now called the european statistical governance advisory board, which is the subject of this proposal. it is fair to say that there is a high degree of sensitivity on all sides about how intrusive the role of the board can be. i am grateful to the current portuguese presidency, and, before them, the german presidency, and also to the commission for being frank with me about these sensitivities. parliament, of course, was determined that the board had to be more than a rubber stamp for the commission’s report. however, we have achieved agreement around a balanced and workable proposal which includes most of parliament’s amendments in some form or another. i am particularly pleased that we have been able to agree with the council that dialogue should be encouraged, not only between the board and this statistical programme committee and the european statistical advisory committee, but also with member states’ stakeholder bodies. the board will report to parliament and the council and will include in its report an assessment of their implementation of the code of practice in the european statistical system as a whole. the board will also advise the commission on appropriate measures to facilitate implementation of the code of practice as it relates to eurostat and to the european statistical system as a whole. it will further advise on communicating the code of practice to users and data providers and on updating the code of practice. measures to ensure the independence of the board and involving the parliament in the appointments have also been included. so, after consulting the commission, the council selects and the european parliament approves the nomination of the chairperson of the board. parliament and the council each appoint three members of the board. the chairperson is not to be a current member of a national statistical office, or of the commission, or to have held such a post within the last two years. we considered similar exclusions on all members but that is not really practical. however, we have added a requirement that the board provide a range of complementary skills and experience. just in case we have not got the balance right, the board itself should be in a position to know whether it has been frustrated or not, so there is a review clause after three years. this will give sufficient time for the board and others to be able to indicate whether the procedures are working and effective or whether there are changes that are necessary, and this must be a serous review. parliament, the portuguese presidency and the commission have had a very effective dialogue on this dossier, and i thank them. i am pleased to be in a position to be able to lead this proposal through in a single reading with the support from shadow rapporteurs, whom i also thank.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it says this is a contribution, but it is more like a recipe, a recipe for the harmonisation of yet more taxation, which i quote here and there from the report: ‘27 different tax systems’ are an ‘impediment’; ‘coordination of member states’ fiscal policy’; ‘calls on the member states to ... ensure greater fairness in the distribution of the tax burden’; ‘supports’ the commission in gearing ‘fiscal policy towards ... environmental objectives’; ‘increase in fuel taxes’; ‘establish a pan-european ... corporate tax base’. in short, it is back to the failed policies of the 1970s. in any case, even the british cannot get it right for all of our country. north is not the same as the south, wales and scotland are different to the south-east – and that was under gordon brown as chancellor for 10 years. surely you listened to him; after all, you did at lisbon last week when, as prime minister, you let him keep the red lines, did you not? or did you? later in the report, it talks about ‘eu-wide coordination’ of ‘direct taxation’. in the uk, we thought we had been promised that harmonised taxes, especially income tax, would never come. now, here it is in a report. it is a bit like the reform treaty. gordon brown keeps on saying it is not a constitution, when all the eu leaders say it is: valéry giscard d’estaing, josé luis rodriguez zapatero, angela merkel, even our own president of president said so in this chamber a short while ago. so why do you not get gordon brown to tell the truth to the british people? harmonise that message! now, that is harmonisation i would go along with. but you dare not do that to the british people because, when they are told the plain unvarnished truth, they will vote with their feet, right out of the eu, taking their annual eu contributions of eur 18 billion of their own taxpayers’ money with them. what price harmonised taxes then?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is fitting that the reform treaty should be signed in the city which caesar once named ‘felicitas julia’, because it has overcome years of attack, siege, even last-minute subterfuge, to emerge bloodied and bruised, yet more or less intact, as the blueprint for a more democratic and transparent european union. so felicitas, jose. may your name, like caesar’s, forever be associated with the historic changes you wrought in lisbon – changes like normalising codecision, ending the tyranny of council vetoes, placing energy, and justice and home affairs, under democratic scrutiny: these changes give our union the capacity to confront the challenges of globalisation. (laughter) it is a pity that the treaty is not simpler to digest, but – after being butchered by the ballpoint pens of civil servants from 27 member states – what would you expect? your famous poet fernando pessoa once wrote: ‘no intelligent idea can gain general acceptance unless some stupidity is mixed in with it’. well, in this case, the culprit was national interest, which watered down, or rendered indecipherable, policies and practices that are in all of our interests. some of the national horse trading you engaged in made it look like comedy descending into farce: deciding that austrian universities can break the law for another five years while the policemen look the other way, or creating two classes of european citizen: those with fundamental rights and those without. or suggesting that the president of the european parliament should forsake his right to vote; or, indeed, that council has the right to determine parliament’s rules of procedure. but the real tragedy is this: we saw not a single national leader return home flying the flag for europe. instead, they crowed about the opt-outs and the derogations and the exclusions which disfigure the text before us today. how do you guys expect to convince the people if you sound so unconvinced yourselves? if the poverty of aspiration implicit in a minimalist treaty is reflected in your poverty of enthusiasm? look, it is your right to act as you choose, but it is also your responsibility. the only thing this parliament need regret amongst the many successes is the process. the codes of transparency and democracy which drove the constitutional convention were a good deal preferable to secretive summits, and backroom deals in the wee small hours of thursday morning. issues of such importance should not be decided in such a kamikaze manner. (applause) nonetheless, again: congratulations. i propose a toast, with my glass half full: two cheers for the lisbon treaty. let us hope its advances move us forward faster, and convert cynicism into renewed belief. (applause)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this is not the first time that i have heard the president of the commission and heads of state come to this chamber after a summit in the ancient city of lisbon, proclaiming the whole thing to be a fantastic success and an example of how successful the european union is. yes, you remember, mr barroso, don’t you? the lisbon agenda. here i was, seven years ago, being told that, because of that weekend meeting in lisbon, we were about to become the most high-technology economy in the world with full employment and high growth rates. well, as we know, we are 75% of the way through and the thing has crashed in ruins. i would not, if i were you, be too complacent about the summit you had in lisbon last week either because, for once, the national parliaments will have their say. this, of course, is unusual because, generally, national parliaments do not have much to do any more, as the eu institutions have usurped them. however, the national parliaments will have their say and there is a real chance that we will get more referendums than just in ireland. of course that is the one thing that you people do not want, isn’t it? you loathe democracy so much now that you actually call it populism. you treated the french and dutch referendums with contempt and you refused to take no for an answer. you are the euronationalists, dangerous people who will stop at nothing. what that summit in lisbon represented was a giant deceit and an attempt to impose upon the peoples of europe a constitution just by dropping that word and repackaging it, when it actually has all the same proposals. it is absolutely disgraceful that you are doing this, but i have hope and faith that in westminster, the mother of parliaments for once will do her job and the british people will get a referendum. we have heard enough from the political classes of europe. it is time that in britain and in many other countries of europe we heard what the people have to say. you cannot push on with this project without the support of the people. let the people speak.
european parliament representative at the intergovernmental conference. mr president, for 26 countries, the treaty is certainly a great step forward towards european unity and certainly rivals the treaty of maastricht in importance. of course, the treaty lacks the simplicity of its late, lamented predecessor, but it preserves all the principal reforms. abroad and inside the union, people will soon see a more effective, efficient and democratic union. but in one country this is not so. the british still seem intimidated by the success of the eu and have sought, at the igc, to reduce the scope and force of common policies in the area of fundamental rights, freedom, security and justice, and in the common foreign security and defence policies. why such a strategy of non-cooperation is thought to serve the interests of the british people is not clear. nor do mr farage or the conservative party provide a preferable or alternative solution. it is my desire and trust that this strange, idiosyncratic british policy will prove to be as short-lived as possible.
mr president, i am grateful to the prime minister for his statement this morning and, whilst i note the decisions of the heads of government, the british people and the british conservative party have been consistent in their concerns about the constitution and the very similar reform treaty. the british prime minister has said that the reform treaty is not the constitution. his fellow leaders have disagreed. he told us that britain’s so-called ‘red lines’ have been secured. like most british people i really do not understand or believe our prime minister on this matter. the issue is one of trust. our prime minister gave a commitment to hold a referendum – a commitment in an election manifesto two years ago. a referendum on this treaty is, therefore, not only politically necessary but also a moral imperative. the irish prime minister said at the weekend about possible referenda: ‘why not let your people have a say? i think it’s a bit upsetting to see so many countries running away from giving their people an opportunity’. a few days ago, gordon brown said that this treaty will mark the end of eu institutional reform for the next decade. however, over the past 15 years we have had four treaties dealing with reform, and i doubt whether the urge to have further institutional change can be resisted. the so-called ‘ratchet clause’, for example, would allow further national vetoes to be abolished. on the other hand, the conservative vision for europe focuses on the three key areas of global competitiveness, global climate change and global poverty. i congratulate president barroso in particular for his determination, in any event, to pursue those aims. however, they can be tackled with political will and do not require this treaty. we should remind ourselves of what the laeken declaration said. it said the union needs to become more democratic, more transparent and more efficient, but it called also for us to engage the citizens more and not just to communicate our decisions to them. the question today is: does the treaty respond to laeken? laeken asked the right questions. have we given the right answers?
mr president, i represent scotland. my party, the snp, forms the new government in scotland, and i believe it will prove to be more constructive towards participation in the european union than uk governments have been. i accept the need to reform the treaties and to create more open, democratic, efficient and accountable governance. in principle, i support an extension of qmv and codecision with the european parliament, but the very diversity which mr barroso quite rightly referred to will always mean that national interests will be promoted. we should not lose touch with our local communities by trampling over their interests, or appearing so to do. for scotland, there is a very real fear that the entrenchment of the common fisheries policy, as an exclusive competence within the treaties, can only obstruct the absolute root-and-branch reform of fisheries management that i believe to be necessary. unfortunately, but not surprisingly, the uk government did not raise this issue at the summit. yet again, scotland’s key interests have been ignored by a uk government.
mr president, i, too, welcome this agreement, which, despite a few oddities like the extra seat for italy, is a good package that deserves ratification and will make the european union function better, while also improving its democratic accountability. let me dwell for my remaining minute on the second aspect. mr kirkhope asked just now whether we have answered the questions posed at laeken about making the eu more democratically accountable and closer to its citizens. i would say that we have certainly moved in that direction. let us remember one thing: once this treaty comes into force, no european legislation can be adopted without, firstly, prior examination by every national parliament, secondly, the approval of the council of ministers composed of national ministers accountable to those very same national parliaments and, thirdly, approval by this european parliament, with its members directly chosen by citizens specifically to deal with european issues at european level. that is a level of accountability that exists in no other international structure. look at the world trade organisation. look at the imf. look at the world bank. look at the oecd. you name it, nothing above the level of the nation state has that level of democratic accountability. those who are really worried about democratic accountability in international structures should focus on those institutions and organisations. we should be proud of what we are achieving in our democratic european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 166, and with reference to rules 45, 77, 89, 113 and 155. we took a decision yesterday that we would have a resolution on the eu-russia summit this week, and my group believes that we should stick to that. i know there is an attempt to try to revote that decision, but i hope the house will sensibly see off such a narrow-minded approach to politics. (applause)
mr president, i rise on a point of order on the same legal basis as mr watson. i merely wish to point out that we have had a very important debate about the increase of democracy within the eu. this tactic, which has, apparently, just been successful, demonstrates that democracy, even within this parliament, needs to be extended further. i can say – as a member of a large group, the ppe-de group, of which i am extremely proud to be a member – that the blame for not holding a resolution was put on other groups. i then found out that this was an agreement by the two large groups. quite clearly, this is an unsatisfactory way to proceed. i accept the decision. my practical recommendation to you, mr president, would be to ensure that the full verbatim account of the debate on the eu-russia summit be presented by the president-in-office of the council and the president of the commission to president putin at the summit – not afterwards. (applause)
mr president, i rise on a point of order under rule 166, to invoke rule 37(1) of our rules of procedure. rule 37(1) concerns the access to documents and provision of information to this parliament. in the run-up to this vote on pesticides, many, if not all, in this house have been bombarded by e-mails asking us to vote for amendments that go even further than the commission would like us to. these e-mails come from an organisation called pesticide watch, whose constituent organisations received large amounts of funding from the european commission – indeed, part of the eur 11.7 million spent in the last two years under the budget line relating to the community action programme promoting non-governmental organisations (ngos) primarily active in the field of environmental protection and the life+ programme. under rule 37(1), can i ask for the various exchanges between the commission and these ngos, who have been lobbying us on all these matters? this payroll lobbying has certainly led to an increase in the number of e-mails being received by meps, but surely it is wrong for one commission dg to use large sums of taypayers’ money, and abuse the role of ngos, to try and change the views of parliamentarians and the lead commission dg on this matter. (loud applause from the right)
mr president, on a point of order, this is a complete fiasco and we must go to full electronic voting. this is bloody ridiculous! (applause)
mr president, on a point of order, i do not want to prolong things, and you are too polite to say so, but there is a rule which allows the president taking a vote, when presented with a vote of this length – eight pages of thirty separate votes – to put it to the house that the report be sent back to the committee to be sifted and re-presented. i think we should apply that rule more often. (applause)
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which gives parliamentary support to the first ever distribution of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund, which was established with strong pse support to alleviate the effects of globalisation on workers.
mr president, i feel very disappointed that parliament has not done more today on this pesticides package. on so many of the more radical and progressive issues, we could have gone very much further. but the one area that i want to focus on just now is the area of residents. they should be regarded as a specifically vulnerable group, an exposure group in their own right, and a small step has been taken today in order to do that, in the vote that we have just had in this parliament. people who live near schools where nearby fields are sprayed and people who work or live near sprayed fields have an enormously high exposure to pesticides. they are exposed, on a long-term basis, to mixtures or cocktails of pesticides that are sprayed in their locality throughout the year and, in many cases, for decades. until now there has not been any protection for residents as a specific exposure group. this is a major and serious public health issue, as farmers clearly cannot control pesticides once they are airborne, and studies have shown pesticides can travel in the air for miles. i wish we had gone further in terms of our ban on all aerial spraying. there have been many reports over the decades of acute and chronic ill-health in rural areas. our parliament could have done much more in this vote today to protect people from cancers, from leukaemia, from non-hodgkin’s lymphoma and a whole range of other diseases, and i am very disappointed indeed that we did not take up that option, which had been put forward in the committee on the environment. so many of those more positive measures have, sadly, been overturned by the other groups. but i hope that people will look at the parliament today and put pressure on their representatives so that, when we come back to a second reading, we can try and do better by the health of people. they expect us to do better. we should have done better, and i am very sorry the other groups did not support us today.
in writing. i voted for this report as amended, which developed a reasonable compromise between preserving public safety by restricting the use of pesticides, and protecting the ability of land based industries to enhance crop production. the precautionary principle at the heart of the approach is one i strongly support.
in writing. i voted for this report and am pleased that it combines the sustainable use of pesticides with effective health and environmental protection.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me start by thanking mr virrankoski for an excellent report and for the substantial amount of work he has done on it. he rightly says that 2008 is year two in a seven-year financial perspective. it is my belief that this budget is moving in the right direction to offer value for money and with payment appropriations this year set at 0.99% gni, it has the potential to achieve far better implementation in the coming years. however, in order to achieve these goals, i call on the council, in particular, to take note of parliament’s views and to be prepared to discuss some of the issues further, and i mention four issues at this point. firstly, galileo and the european institute of technology (eit): parliament has given its approval to these schemes, but we still need evidence of budgetary discipline from the other institutions, and i make here three points. firstly, i see insufficient evidence of provision for cost over-runs and late delivery of the projects. secondly, i see insufficient evidence of very clear lines of accountability and responsibility with these major items, particularly where contracts for work on the projects are being awarded. finally, i believe that the commission should do far more to share its vision for the galileo project and particularly the post-development phase of the project and the on-going situation. secondly, under heading 4, we already know that demand for funding for palestine and kosovo will extend the margin under this heading quite considerably. this in part has been met by a reduction in funding for the cfsp. but that will inevitably create problems during the next year and i think that some time after parliament’s first reading we will need to have discussions with the council and the commission to see how we can address that situation. thirdly, i call on the council to support parliament’s efforts to oblige the commission to comply with the screening exercise and to achieve greater efficiency in staffing levels. this includes the decentralised and external agencies, where i fear there is need for far greater levels of accountability. finally, it is most important that both the council and the commission attach far greater urgency to the achievement of a positive déclaration d’assurance from the court of auditors. in my view, their current rate of progress is unacceptably slow and, in consequence of this, the credibility of this house is seriously undermined. i therefore call on the council, in particular, to show far greater urgency to address this situation.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, as others have done. however, in my remarks, instead of the three ‘l’s used by mr martinez, which if i remember correctly were ‘litany’, ‘liturgy’ and ‘lethargy’, i would rather use three ‘i’s, which are ‘implementation’, ‘initiation’ and ‘imagination’. firstly, i should like to thank the rapporteurs, particularly mr virrankoski, for including a couple of paragraphs about the monitoring of the budget. it is extremely important that we think about the question of value for money. even if that particular term is not included in the resolution, it is, no doubt, in the hearts of everybody that we need to be able to justify, with our specialised committees, the monies we are actually spending, not just in the current period, but also in the fact of having the national management declarations, which it seems many member states are still reluctant to put together. secondly, i would like to thank both the rapporteurs and the commissioner, in this regard, for having, in my own budget for the year 2007, implemented those pilot projects and preparatory projects which were included. there are quite a few of them, and it is nice to have a certain continuity as we go through into 2008, particularly picking up on the pilot information networks, but also on the projects with the eu, china and india. that brings me to my last point, which is the question of imagination. einstein said that imagination is more important than knowledge. we have seen in this debate that many colleagues – mr mantovani, ms guy-quint and others – and myself always deplore the fact that we have too little money in category four, the external actions. we know perfectly well there is too little, so i would put in a particular plea at this stage, as we look towards the budget review, that maybe we should actually use a little imagination to see how the european union will be called upon in the future to meet the global challenges of the future and to play its part in global assistance and the functioning of the global economy, and then make sure we have the means to be able to implement what we wish to take on as our policies.
in writing. – we must demonstrate to the european taxpayer that the eu’s budget is value for money and represents sound financial management. therefore, the ep’s continued monthly commute to strasbourg totally contradicts this, especially with our focus on climate change. whilst i welcome the comments in the itälä report on greener use of transport, these hardly tackle the scale of the problem. we urgently need to act as pioneers and set a real example. on the virrankoski report, i am disappointed by the level of funding for poverty reduction programmes to the poorest regions, including asia. if the eu is to have credibility as a global power it needs to put its money where its mouth is. whilst i welcome the support for palestine and afghanistan, in the case of the latter, the eu strategy needs greater collaboration with neighbouring countries india and pakistan to achieve long-term success. furthermore i regret the proposed reduction to cfsp funding, especially in kosovo. this should not be delayed or underfunded. finally, i support the emphasis on the lisbon agenda creating jobs and increasing skills. these initiatives will really bring added value from the eu to the people i represent in the west midlands.
the next item is question time (b6-0318/07). we wanted today, and i think some colleagues are aware of this, to try a little experiment in order to make question time a little more friendly and interactive. i would therefore invite all members of this house to come forward to the front row of seating so that we can be a little more friendly amongst ourselves and the commission. please, come forward to the front seats rather than sitting right at the back. i can see that some of you are still shy. come on, it should be fun to have an experiment! the following questions are addressed to the commission. first part question no 41 by manuel medina ortega (h-0679/07) subject: child abduction in the light of the number of cases of child abduction and disappearances, what measures is the commission proposing to coordinate member states' means of preventing and punishing these types of acts throughout the european union?
could i perhaps remind members of what i said at the beginning of question time. we are trying an experiment where i would invite all members to take seats at the front of the chamber so that we make this a little more intimate and friendly, and perhaps more of an exchange. so, even if you would normally sit towards the back, you are invited to please come to the front of the chamber. the next question is on the tropical virus chikungunya in europe. i don’t know if i pronounced that correctly.
question no 42 by milan gala (h-0738/07) subject: tropical virus chikungunya in europe the italian authorities, using the european early warning system, have informed the other eu member states of a tropical fever epidemic caused by the chikungunya virus in the province of emilia-romagna. the european centre for disease prevention and control warns that climatic conditions are favourable for the continued presence of this vector over the next few months, particularly in mediterranean countries, and that there is a high risk of the virus spreading to other european countries where the climatic conditions are favourable for its survival. at a time of marked change in climatic conditions and high levels of mobility, is the commission preparing a scenario on how to deal with a possible tropical fever epidemic on a larger scale?
question no 43 by paulo casaca (h-0752/07) subject: humanitarian disaster in iraq with the closure of the syrian border, the sole remaining means of escape for thousands of iraqi refugees, including very large families and thus large numbers of children, was cut off. in addition to ethnic cleansing – often encouraged with the active involvement of the iraqi authorities – we now have a serious cholera epidemic directly linked to the appalling health conditions prevailing in much of the country. the commission's response to the humanitarian disaster in iraq has been totally insignificant and is in direct conflict with european values. how does the commission plan to support the iraqi population fleeing within or outside iraq? how does the commission plan to support frontline countries such as jordan, which are having to bear the consequences of this situation disproportionately?
i think we all share your concern, but our rules allow half a minute for supplementary questions.
some members have already taken up my invitation, but, to those who have not, please do feel free to move to the front of the chamber. we want to try to make this more comfortable and more interactive, so please feel free to come right to the front and then we can look the commissioner right in the eye. i am sure he will be happy about that! second part
question no 44 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0681/07) subject: contract staff in posts meeting established and permanent needs in the eu institutions and services under directive 1999/70/ec oj l 175, 10.7.1999, p. 43. member states are prohibited from allowing abuses of fixed-term contracts to meet established and permanent needs. to what extent do eu institutions and services themselves respect the above principle and what is the percentage of contract staff in the eu institutions and services occupying posts meeting established and permanent needs?
question no 45 by johan van hecke (h-0718/07) subject: impact of the growing number of eu officials on pension costs in the last seven years the number of permanent employees in the commission has apparently risen by some 16% to almost 20 000 officials. at the start of this year, following the accession of bulgaria and romania, more than 700 officials were recruited with the task of strengthening the internal market. clearly, the growing number of eu officials has implications for the budget, and above all an alarming increase in pension costs may be expected. in 2008 pension costs apparently rose by more than 10%, at the expense, of course, of european taxpayers. how does the commission see growth in the number of commission officials in the near future? has a form of freeze on the number of officials already been considered? is the commission aware of the financial implications, above all as far as pension costs are concerned?
question no 46 by esko seppänen (h-0726/07) subject: commission and trade unions is it the custom in the commission for officials of commission staff trade unions to be paid a salary out of eu funds? if so, to how many officials is a salary paid?
can i again remind those members who have joined us in the interim, we are trying an experiment today and i would ask you to come to the front of the chamber. please do not feel shy, come and fill the front seats rather than sitting right at the back, so that it makes it a closer encounter. question no 49 by bart staes (h-0685/07) subject: total proceeds from fines imposed on businesses under competition rules can the commission indicate the sum total of the fines it has imposed on businesses under european competition rules since the beginning of its current term in office and whether any measures have been taken or whether there have been any consultations within the commission with a view to reserving this money - less the relevant amounts budgeted - for additional eu activities rather than transferring the extra revenue to the member states?
question no 50 by lambert van nistelrooij (h-0690/07) subject: merger between suez and gaz de france on 3 september it was announced that the boards of the french energy company suez and the state enterprise gaz de france had decided to proceed with the planned merger. this would create the fourth largest energy company, after gazprom, electricité de france and eon. the commission has already ordered the merged company to hive off a number of operations in belgium and france. does the commission believe that these merger plans still accord with the current principles which it espouses with regard to liberalisation of the energy market in the european union? to what extent have the new merged company and the french state promised to carry out the divestment of ownership of the main networks which the commission has called for?
question no 52 by anne van lancker (h-0755/07) subject: subsidy to volvo cars ghent / eu rules on state aid on 12 september 2007, the commission announced an inquiry into the compatibility with eu rules on state aid of a planned subsidy of € 6.02 m from the flemish region for general and specific training costs at volvo cars ghent; the subsidy would amount to 20% of the company's total training bill. the commission states that it wishes to ensure that the aid is not used purely to subsidise training costs which the company would have incurred anyway. the commission bases its intention on a very restrictive interpretation of regulation (ec) no 68/2001 oj l 10, 13.1.2001, p. 20.. can the commission clarify how it intends to apply the eu rules on state aid in this case? what facts does the commission take as a basis for claiming that the aid confers an unlawful competitive advantage and is therefore incompatible with eu rules on state aid?
question no 53 by georgios papastamkos (h-0682/07) subject: trade and climate change the eu is - quite rightly - at the forefront of political action to tackle climate change. however, its efforts alone are patently insufficient. nor should we overlook the competitive disadvantage of european enterprises and the threat of relocation and job losses. commissioner mandelson has opted in favour of an approach based on providing incentives for 'clean' trade. is the commission also considering the possibility of deploying trade protection measures against, for instance, its partners which fail to implement the kyoto protocol? what initiatives does it intend to take to address the problem of environmental dumping and to ensure reciprocity between the eu and its trading partners as regards compliance with environmental standards at bilateral, regional and multilateral levels?
question no 54 by daniel caspary (h-0695/07) subject: discussion on the future of the trade defence instruments in the vote on the global europe report on 22 may 2007, the european parliament made clear its intention to maintain the current trade defence instruments and reject any relaxation in their application. how does the commission intend to take this into account in its work on the future of the trade defence instruments? how is the contradiction between the statements by commissioner mandelson on the future of the trade defence instruments and the opinion of the european parliament to be resolved? there is evidence that a modified administrative practice has led to a more restricted application of anti-dumping measures in various procedures. 'community interest', in particular, is increasingly being interpreted in favour of importers and consumers and to the detriment of community industry. can the commission state what justification there is for such a modification in application? can the commission provide any information on why no anti-dumping cases were accepted in the first half of 2007? question no 55 by laima liucija andrikiene (h-0770/07) subject: eu trade defence instruments how does the commission evaluate the results of the consultations on the green paper on the european trade policy? what will be the final proposal of the commission considering the fact that the majority of stake holders seem not to support further liberalisation of this policy?
commissioner, in order to get to one further question, i am going to take the next two supplementary questions together and ask you to deal with them both together.
questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). i am sorry for those who have waited. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 19.35 and resumed at 21.00)
author. – mr president, it is with great pleasure that i stand up and talk tonight because we are in a situation now where food security has become a real issue. for 25 years we have been in a situation where there has been plenty of food in europe. in fact, we have been taking many decisions in agriculture, in the common agricultural policy, to restrict production in order to maintain prices and reduce the use of export subsidies and to export products on to the world markets. now we are facing a situation that is completely different: cereal prices have risen threefold this year; the livestock sector is having a huge problem, having seen its feed costs going up by perhaps 50% or 60%, and we are extremely concerned about this. mr daul, mr goepel and i have tabled this oral question – and we are delighted that commissioner fischer boel is here tonight – because we feel we now have to look at every opportunity for getting extra feed into the european union. we will have to face up to the reality that there are some feeds that are derived from gm maize and gm soya which cannot come into the european union at the moment because they are not licensed. i think we have to make sure that we look at this and that we have a system by which we can license these products. provided they are safe, they should come in to be fed to our poultry, and to our pigs in particular, as well as to our cattle, both beef and dairy, because we need to keep a very competitive industry. we also have to look at the situation regarding supermarkets, because – do not forget – not only are we concerned at the price that the farmer receives for his or her products, but we are also interested in what the consumer has to pay. there is no doubt that we are seeing, for instance, that only 10% of a loaf of bread is actually made from the raw material of wheat and yet there are huge increases in the price of the loaf because the supermarkets say they are having to pay so much more for wheat. so we need to put pressure on the supermarkets to make sure that consumers are paying the right price. it is great that it puts european agriculture in a very strong position to face up to the brave new world, because we will need food production, we will need farmers and we need the countryside, and all these things work very well. but, as i say, we now have to get the balance right between the cereal and livestock sectors, and that is why we have tabled this question. we shall be delighted to hear what commissioner fischer boel has to say about it.
mr president, i want to focus on the position in the intensive sector. i will not take time to recount the dire straits in which many producers in that sector find themselves, rather i want to focus on what i believe the commissioner should be doing to help. i have four or five points to make. first of all, i think the commissioner should recognise that soft measures, like market promotion, are not going to be enough. secondly, she should face up, more than has happened to date, to the long-term impact on grain availability and prices of the rampant switch in the united states to biofuel production. their targets, which are very aggressive, are in truth drying up the imports that we need in that regard. thirdly, with intervention grain stocks at an alarming low and the ratio with usage being totally out of kilter, there urgently needs to be action to address that balance. fourthly, i suggest that the commissioner needs to be more proactive in fighting for speedier approval of gm substitutes. with respect, commissioner, you need, on behalf of agriculture, to match the vigour of commissioners kyprianou and dimas as they resist gm approvals. fifthly and finally, you need to put a floor in the market for our intensive sector, with export refunds extended immediately to meat and hams. on that point i am not sure that helping private storage will solve very much in the longer term.
mr president, let me be first of all assure mr graefe zu baringdorf that i am happy to see prices going up for our farmers at last, so long as it is farmers who benefit, and not supermarket chains. up until now the small number of supermarket chains that dominate the retail sector in europe have been profiteering at the expense of our farmers and producers. in my constituency in scotland, dairy producers have for far too long been getting gbp 0.17 per litre for milk, which is below the cost of production, while it was selling on supermarket shelves at over gbp 0.50 per litre. that has driven many dairy farmers in my constituency out of business altogether. we have now seen the price farmers receive for wheat go up by only 10 %, while the shelf price in supermarkets of wheat-based products has gone up by 40 %. once again, supermarkets are using fluctuations in price to pocket bigger profits for themselves. that is a disgrace, and i agree entirely with mr parish that we should ask the commission to start an investigation into the pricing policy of supermarket chains in order to ensure that consumers and producers get a fair deal.
mr president, this is a very timely debate. we all know that cereal prices have increased dramatically, and we know the reasons why. commissioner, it is a fact that we depend on, and still need, grain imports and substitutes from outside the european union, mostly from the united states. in this respect, i am concerned that it is taking so long to decide on the new strains of grain that are up for approval. i am well aware that this is not necessarily the commission’s fault. it is the fault of the national governments, because they could not agree. you are going to have to take the decision, and i hope you take it as soon as possible. i would urge speedier approval of the new strains of grain that are in the pipeline. as price inputs rise, the cost is inevitably passed on to the consumer. that is not something that anyone looks forward to, but it is where we must face up to the power of the supermarkets. i have known mr graefe zu baringdorf for nearly 19 years now – ever since i have been in this parliament. i have to say that sometimes he gets it right and sometimes he gets it wrong; he is wrong on this occasion. i am not against prices going up, as long as the price comes through to the producer as well as to the processor and the consumer. we must address not only this issue, but also the use of gm grain. we are importing into the european union food for our consumers to purchase in our stores when we have no idea how it was produced. there is no traceability of these imports. they could have been produced using any manner of means. that is something that we must confront. a large amount of the meat coming from brazil, to name but one country we have discussed, is almost certainly produced using gm-grain. how can we tell the difference?
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the international agency for research on cancer recently examined all available evidence on second-hand smoke and cancer. this was an independent panel of international scientists from 12 countries convened by the world health organisation. they concluded that second-hand smoke is carcinogenic and that exposure to other people’s smoke increases the risk of lung cancer in non-smokers by 25-30% – quite a staggering figure. there is no doubt that people in the workplace and in enclosed public places have the right to be protected from other people’s smoke. remember that the majority of the population are non-smokers. the best way to deal with this problem is by a comprehensive smoke-free regulation at member state level, encompassing a ban in all enclosed public places and in workplaces. i do not, therefore, agree with amendment 3 by mr florenz asking for limited exceptions. any exceptions must be kept to a minimum. nor do i agree with his amendment 2, which deletes a proposal for amending the framework directive on workplace safety and health, requiring all employers to ensure a smoke-free workplace. employers have a responsibility to protect workers’ health. further, i would resist any suggestion that exemptions should be granted to pubs or bars not serving food. not only is this harmful to employees, but it would also lead to health inequalities. for example, in the uk, non-food pubs accounted for half of all pubs in deprived areas, compared with a quarter in more affluent areas. i also think that awareness-raising measures about the dangers of smoking are crucial. bigger and bolder picture warnings are part of this awareness-raising and, therefore, i cannot support amendment 6, which deletes paragraph 16, which refers to these pictures. i think we would all agree that we must act to help prevent young people from smoking. the younger people are when they start smoking, the more difficult it is to stop in later life. therefore, i would urge support for paragraph 4 of the report, which is aimed at cutting the number of young smokers by 50% by 2025 and rejection of amendment 1 by mr florenz calling for the deletion of this paragraph. smoking causes enormous health problems within the population, both of smokers and non-smokers, and i know that some colleagues feel that the use of snus is a better alternative. however, i cannot support measures that may lead to the wider use of snus, because its use has its own health-related problems, including oral cancer. there is no value in trading one health hazard for another. finally, if we are serious about improving the health of our citizens, then we must encourage all member states to introduce the necessary measures to make a smoke-free europe a reality. can i just suggest that we could make a great start by enforcing the ban here in our own parliament buildings?
mr president, i warmly welcome mr florenz’s report. i strongly support smoking bans in public places to protect public health and to avert the dangers of passive smoking. i was delighted when scotland led the uk in introducing a smoking ban in march 2006, and i am pleased that bans are now in place in england, wales and northern ireland. as a scottish ban has now been in place for some time, we have evidence on what kind of health impact it has had. recent figures from scotland show that, since the smoking ban was introduced, there has been a 20% reduction in heart attack admissions to hospital. we also continue to raise awareness of the health risks associated with smoking. for this reason, on 14 november 2007, i am launching a written declaration in the european parliament calling for more research and resources for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd). copd is a common and costly lung disease whose advanced stage is chronic respiratory failure. it is an under-recognised, under-diagnosed and under-treated disease, neglected by health care providers and the public. the rise of copd makes it all the more important that the eu adopts comprehensive smoke-free policies and mr florenz’s report.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, ‘encouraging lifelong learning’ sounds fine, does it not, with the eu working openly for the good of people and for employment? only this morning, mr barroso said that he did not like opt-outs, but was in favour of compromises to respect diversity. those are fine words, but here we are with yet another attempt to bulldoze wonderful diversity into a common, harmonised, featureless landscape. now it is the turn of education, broadly speaking. however, education is not within eu competence! it is only covered by proposals under articles 149 and 150 of the treaty. so this is also an attempt to smuggle in a competence by the back door. if the eu wishes to assume competence over education, let it do so honestly, go through the usual channels and employ the transparency we hear so much about. following the model of the bergen framework, setting up the europass diploma and certificate supplements with the european credit transfer system will require a harmonised eqf level. by issuing qualifications at sectoral and regional level, as well as at national level, this eu proposal will ensure an almost complete grip on qualifications. by issuing grades and awarding qualifications it will ensure that the eu bypasses universities and national governments. the uk government is in favour of harmonising qualifications. it is preparing for this by placing control of the universities under the privy council, ready to hand universities over to the eu. what universities think of this seems to be immaterial. hmg’s true position is revealed by its only objection to this scheme. it does not want the eu logo on the qualification documents. that is because they do not want people to know that education has been handed over to the eu. please tell me, why is it that my government has taken that stance? why is it in favour of an eu project but wants to keep it from the people? are other national governments taking the same line? i would not be surprised if they were, because they, too, may wish to keep it from their people that their universities are being used in this way. you may gather that i do not like this project, but it is not for reasons of national pride in britain’s universities and colleges. no. it is because, as a teacher, i value education and recognise that european countries have universities of which they are justly proud – great centres of learning whose alumni have contributed down the centuries to the arts, literature and science, enriching the lives of people everywhere. i recognise also that this impetus to civilisation came about because those seats of learning evolved separately and independently, with each developing its own particular flavour and identity. it is strange, is it not, in an age in which personal identity is being jealously guarded and identity theft is regarded as the crime it is, that some people thoughtlessly seek to destroy the unique identity of the institutions which made them what they are, denying others the education they acquired there?
in writing. – the european qualifications framework (eqf) for lifelong learning is a good example of the european union doing what it should be doing in terms of promoting mobility across national borders. over the years most of us will have made representations on behalf of nationals of our own member states who find that when they take advantage of the freedom of movement available to them within the eu and actually move to another country they are discriminated against because their qualifications are not properly recognised in their new country of residence. the eqf, by acting as a translation tool for national authorities, will undoubtedly help our constituents to overcome this senseless discrimination. it should also work to the advantage of any member state to which a person moves, as it will ensure that an accurate assessment may be made of that individual’s qualifications.
mr president, i detect, particularly from the commission, a tendency to present non-european turkey in the best possible light. not surprising, maybe, considering the millions of pre-accession aid which we are pouring in, but there are uncomfortable realities to be faced. honour crimes, gross human rights abuses, lack of protection for non-muslim minorities, absence of religious freedom and anti-christian attacks and propaganda are my biggest concern. this year, fatal attacks on christians have continued, such as the slaying of three men in malatya in april. genuine freedom of religion is often the touchstone of a country’s abiding commitment to human rights. in turkey’s case, it has much to do, including the legal status of religious groups and property rights, but fundamentally the right to worship freely and the right to convert must be respected.
mr president, the resolution emphasises that turkey must fully comply with the copenhagen criteria as a basis for accession to the eu. the report also urges the turkish government to bring its approach to freedom of religion in line with those principles as defined by the european court of justice. since kemal atatürk, turkey has maintained a secular state against the growing power of fundamentalist and literalist islam. i wonder whether the turks realise that entering the eu will fundamentally undermine their ability to resist militant islam. if turkey joins the eu, their islamists will use the human rights legislation as a shield from behind which to advance their jihad in turkey and europe. the british people are coming to realise that if turkey joins the eu, another 70 million people will have the right to come to britain. turkish accession will be a disaster for the turks and a disaster for britain.
mr president, according to the times newspaper of london, the recent us congressional resolution on the armenian genocide was appallingly timed. so, when is it a suitable time to talk about genocide? the armenian lobby is so vociferous in this parliament precisely because of the apparent conspiracy of silence that has surrounded the genocide question for almost a century. the murder of the turkish-armenian journalist hrant dink should have provided a period of national reflection but, sadly, this did not happen. nevertheless, reconciliation between turkey and armenia, including the reopening of the closed border, is an important element of turkey’s efforts to join the eu. but, in my view, no true democracy can be in denial of its past, even its deepest and darkest secrets. just as important is a lasting settlement of the conflict in cyprus, which remains at an impasse caused by the presence of occupying troops in an eu member state as well as non-implementation of the ankara protocol. minority religious rights, in particular christian, also give cause for concern. for instance, the greek orthodox seminary of halki remains closed since 1971; the assyrian christians who fled to germany and sweden during the war with the pkk have been stripped of their turkish citizenship, preventing them from claiming back their homes lost in the conflict. and turkey sees the alevis as no different from the majority sunni muslims and therefore does not recognise their separate religious needs. article 301 of the penal code on insulting turkishness has resulted in many convictions and, in march – rather bizarrely in my view – a court in istanbul issued an order denying access to the video-sharing website youtube when allegations were made on the sexuality of the founding father of modern turkey, kemal atatürk. speaking entirely personally and not on behalf of my party or my group: a lot clearly still needs to be done.
mr president, i am not sure what this morning’s debate is adding to the turkish accession issue rather than giving an opportunity to a small number of vehement opponents of turkish accession to repeat their arguments in this chamber. of course we should urge turkey to show restraint and to act proportionately in response to the terrorist threat from northern iraq but i note the criticisms this morning are being made by the very same people who in other debates have been against the european union’s contribution to reconstruction in iraq. i welcome the strategic partnership between the uk and turkey announced by prime ministers brown and erdogan in london yesterday, including positive cooperation in combating organised crime and terrorism. i call on other member states to do the same. i welcome the youngest female turkish mp elected, ayla akat, who was in brussels last week as one of a number of kurdish mps returned to the turkish parliament for the first time in 14 years, who give us hope that the problem of kurdish cultural and political rights could be solved through democracy and not through violence.
in writing. – turkey still has a long way to go before it meets the conditions for eu membership. despite considerable progress in recent years, there are still outstanding issues about freedom of expression (particularly article 301 of the penal code), human rights and armenia. however, i reject the arguments of those who say that turkey should never be allowed to join on the grounds that it is not a european country. we have accepted turkey as a full member of the council of europe for more than half a century. we have started accession negotiations, thereby recognising its eligibility to join the eu in principle. those claiming that turkey is not european really mean it is not christian. but why should that be a criterion? the motto of the european union is ‘unity with diversity’ –we are not trying to standardise cultures, but to find ways of working together while keeping our different languages, religions and so on. accepting a secular state whose population is largely islamic would enhance that principle.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, may’s summit in samara exposed the cracks in our strategic partnership with russia – on energy, on kosovo and on human rights. those fissures have become fault lines that are now so deep and so wide that we are hard pressed to say how meaningful ‘partnership’ based on common values can be pursued. by mr putin’s own admission, ‘russia will not soon become, if it ever becomes, a country where liberal values have deep historical roots’. how long can we go on ignoring the growing evidence? not that russians refuse the cultural trappings of the west, because president putin has spoken time and again of his country’s place at the cultural heart of europe. no, this vehemence, this denial, is directed primarily against what president barroso calls europe’s ‘sacred values’ – values like freedom, democracy and the rule of law, which are conspicuously absent in russia today. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra was right. from the council and the commission we have heard too much realpolitik and not enough moralpolitik. our relationship with russia is strategic, certainly, but it cannot be described as a partnership. we need a pragmatic approach, cooperating where we can on issues of mutual concern, like border crossings, energy supply, and joining the wto – although yesterday’s announcement on price controls on foodstuffs suggests a return to the economic policies of the past. some progress can be made with russia, but without the fanfare, followed by frustration, which marks too many eu-russia summits. a bit more honesty is needed, too, as russia comes up to two major elections. if human cloning were better developed, president putin would probably run for both president and prime minister following the kaczyńskis’ example in poland! for a country which overturned oligarchy back in 1917, it is quite incredible that a new autocracy is gaining ground, and we should not cut down our criticisms for fear of endangering a partnership which exists but on paper. only when an independent judiciary, freedom of expression and democracy exist as more than sound bites and when journalists, opposition parties, and ngos can operate without fear of retribution, can europe stand in solidarity with russia. it is for that reason that my group sought a resolution to close this debate, and over 300 meps backed our calls. we must be prepared to put on paper what we say in public and refute those who say this house is nothing but a glorified talking shop. the reform treaty promises parliament a real say on external action for the first time. so let us raise our game to meet the challenge and deliver at the summit a message that president putin cannot ignore.
madam president, i would ask the president-in-office of the council and the commissioner to provide this house with assurances, as was requested yesterday, that the views expressed by it will be put directly to president putin and to his advisers at mafra on friday. we have heard about the three guiding principles, which president barroso describes as sacred principles, of solidarity, reciprocity and the rule of law. being portuguese, the president-in-office will know that my own country, england, has one of the oldest of alliances with his country. we therefore understand what solidarity and mutual support means. if we forget, our mutual patron saint, são jorge, is there to remind us. an attack on one member state or on one member state’s diplomats, or cyber attacks on one member state, are an attack on the whole of the eu. it is surely appropriate that president putin be reminded that this solidarity and reciprocity are essential to us. we cannot accept the concept of sovereign democracy if it means, on the one hand, that russia accedes to international organisations – commissioner, you have referred to the wto – promising to abide by undertakings, and then fails to meet those undertakings. that has to be underlined. tomorrow, mikhail khodorkovsky comes to the end of his four-year prison sentence in siberia. according to russian law, that sentence should have been served in moscow. it might be appropriate to remind president putin that the rule of law is a two-way thing, as far as our relationship is concerned. mr khodorkovsky will not be freed, as new charges have been raised. you might ask what relevance this has to the eu. the answer is that many eu shareholders are concerned that commercial and legal commitments are not being followed through. finally, president-in-office, we are not condemned to cooperation, and cannot have a partnership without mutual respect and mutual understanding. we are trying very hard from our side to ensure that. we need assurances from president putin that he understands our guiding principles.
mr president, i rise on a completely different matter. i should just like to express, on behalf of many in my group and i am sure of many others, our thanks to you for organising this presentation of the lux prize. it is the kind of thing we have not done as a parliament before. it is the kind of thing we should do, and, as a former swedish prime minister once said, ‘politicians would do well to go the cinema more often’. (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, as the author of this report on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, i can confirm to the house that there was a full debate in committee before the report was presented in plenary. the committee also heard from mr gobbo, and there was a clear majority in favour of the report. it is a shame that mr gollnisch did not raise the issues he mentioned before, but i am perfectly comfortable and perfectly confident that the committee adopted its position in full knowledge of all the facts and all the regulations. i see no reason why the report should now be referred back to that committee.
mr president, on a point of order, you are again conducting business at a speed at which it is impossible to vote. yesterday, the president of parliament told us that it was acceptable to make a number of mistakes, getting the vote wrong, because statistically that would happen anyway. that does not apply in your case because we are voting so fast it is impossible to see how people are voting anyway. can you please slow down? (applause)
rapporteur. – mr president, very simply i agree with the voting list as presented to the house.
madam president, following the vote, parliament has decided to have both a written verbatim record of its sessions and an audiovisual record of its sessions. this obviously has budgetary implications and i would urge the bureau to examine the situation, enact the necessary changes to the budget or come up with a new proposal if it wishes the committee to re-examine this matter. i rather suspect, given the very large majority of the house on this issue, that the will of parliament is rather clear, so i think it is rather the first course of action that will have to be taken.
in writing. keeping a record of all debates and making them available to the public could help euro-scepticism. however this will also allow the eu to boast of greater transparency when in fact it will in reality do little to enhance democracy, because the european parliament cannot initiate legislation and can be ignored by the european commission. in the eu the unelected commission initiate eu legislation and they offer no transparency at all. the opportunity for a week to make corrections to speeches (amendment 4) was well intended and would protect meps from errors, but up to date news on the eu could potentially be buried by a week’s delay, hindering the free press in informing the public. therefore i voted against the report
in writing. keeping a record of all debates and making them available to the public could help euro-scepticism. however this will also allow the eu to boast of greater transparency when in fact it will in reality do little to enhance democracy because the european parliament cannot initiate legislation and can be ignored by the european commission. in the eu the unelected commission initiate eu legislation and they offer no transparency at all. i do not support the opportunity to make corrections to speeches (amendment 4) the verbatim report should be as spoken. i make mistakes as much as anyone. up to date news on the eu could potentially be buried by a week’s delay, hindering the free press in informing the public. a separate note by way of explanation might be acceptable. therefore i voted against the report.
in writing. i voted for this report, which advocates the establishment of a european statistical governance advisory board in response to a commission proposal to improve the production of eu-wide statistics.
in writing. i voted for this uncontroversial report, proposing the establishment of a european advisory committee on community statistical information policy. the amendments parliament also adopted will ensure the committee’s efficiency, and affect its name and composition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which seeks the establishment of a european qualifications framework to help with the eu-wide recognition of the qualifications that people receive. it should lead to an improvement in mobility for people who wish to work in other member states by providing a neutral and credible reference point for the comparison of various qualifications.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on energy issues which canvasses many areas of energy efficiency, supply and conservation. i did not support amendments endorsing nuclear power: my view is that sustainable, renewable energy resources should be developed and that research & development efforts should focus on these areas first.
madam president, i have two points to make, the first on the procedure, the second on the voting list. on the voting list: firstly, there was no mention of paragraph 3; secondly, i think we should look again at what happened about amendments 52 and 51. if you look at it, 51 is clearly the nearest to the original text and should have been voted first. 52 is furthest away and should have been voted second. i would ask that the presidency look at this because that is clearly what should have happened. so, on those procedural points, i would like some answers. secondly, on the politics of it, this was the first real vote on climate change. it was not a piece of legislation – that will come – but, by failing to support the 2012 date backed by the european commission, i think that the alde group and the ppe-de group in this house failed the first test on climate change and the people out there will be looking at what happened here today and wondering whether we really are serious about the commitments we made back in march to reduce co2. we talk about europe being a europe of the environment. we have to do it in legislation if it is ever going to happen.
in writing. i voted for the original version of this report, which proposed tough limits on emissions of 120g carbon dioxide/kilometre by 2012. unfortunately, the proposal was weakened by tory and liberal meps to allow for a higher emissions limit and a longer phase-in period. the overall strategy is good, but it is a pity it has been weakened unnecessarily.
in writing. there are many ways in which fiscal attitudes across the eu could be helpful in generating a series of better conclusions for the lisbon strategy. simply put, the incentivisation of growth of small businesses and job creation, as well as environmental issues, is seen as a positive. this is for member states to undertake and follow through – such is their competence. consolidating tax bases at an eu level would not make the difference suggested by the rapporteur. the eplp maintains that many good things towards the lisbon strategy can be reached by member state action rather than eu action.
madam president, if ever there was an issue that cried out for subsidiarity, it is surely that of smoking. pass over the hypocrisy of subsidising the growing of tobacco in the european union while penalising its consumption. disregard the double standard of discouraging smoking within the eu but encouraging it outside. focus instead on the more basic question of what any of this has to do with brussels. surely the legal and fiscal status of tobacco is a national prerogative, and the question of where and when we may consume it should be decided more locally still: in a privately-owned space by the proprietor of that space, and in a public space by the municipal authorities. it ought to have nothing to do with national governments and certainly nothing to do with the european union. subsidiarity, colleagues – remember that?
in writing. i voted for this report, which sets out the options for reducing the harm caused by tobacco smoke across the european union. it does not call for eu legislation, but calls on member states to institute comprehensive smoking bans within two years. the uk already has such a ban, but given the harm tobacco causes i support this sensible approach being extended across the eu.
in writing. i strongly support smoking bans in public places to protect public health and to avert the dangers of passive smoking. a scottish ban on smoking in public places has now been in place for 19 months, and figures show that since the smoking ban was introduced there has been a 20% reduction in heart attack admissions to hospital. the smoking ban has therefore saved lives and has been effective in promoting better health for scots. i look forward to seeing this approach applied across the rest of europe.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report’s opening sentence is: ‘... the future of serbia lies in the european union’. it goes on to say: ‘... the future of all countries in the region lies in the eu’. the countries of the region are of course croatia, kosovo, bosnia-herzegovina, macedonia, montenegro and albania. some of them have historic enmities that have erupted in tragic wars in recent times. the eu, of course, believes that if they joined everything would resolve itself in sweetness and light. but follow through one consequence of what would actually happen if they did join. these states have a combined population of over 24 million people. many of these people would take up their right to move to other parts of the eu. on past experience, many of them would come to britain. britain is already swamped with immigrants and asylum seekers from the eu and beyond. the british home office has an unofficial policy of moving different ethnic and religious groups of asylum-seekers to different parts of the uk for fear of the violence and conflicts that might erupt between them. if serbia and other balkan states were eventually to join the eu, britain would import yet more of their historic hatreds and blood feuds onto british soil. the way forward for serbia and for her neighbours is as democratic, independent nation states, resolving their problems peacefully – not to join the european union.
madam president, i am rather surprised to find myself agreeing with a colleague from the other side of the house so wholeheartedly. i congratulate ms martens on her report. there have been a lot of excellent words said in this chamber this afternoon, but we have failed africa. we have failed africa in the past and, as the rapporteur on epas, i hope that this european union will not fail africa again. yesterday the commission published a communication on epas, which at long last acknowledged the impossibility of completing negotiations by the end of 2007, as was previously planned and reported in my report. but the commission continues to insist that africa, caribbean and pacific countries must commit to signing up fully to epas in 2008 and that some countries in the region should sign up to epas while others do not. is that not unbelievably farcical! too much is unclear and uncertain in these talks, with so little time left. the communication is deliberately vague and, while i understand what it is, it worries me: i never sign up to a deal about something that i do not understand, and yet we are asking africa to do precisely that. furthermore, these new proposals to create subregional agreements within regions with african countries which are willing to sign up would create a spaghetti-like mess of different agreements in neighbouring countries. the idea that other countries and acp regions should join later would mean them signing up to a deal they had not negotiated. how is that a good idea? were epas not meant to be about regional integration? so who is focusing on implementation, monitoring mechanisms and impact assessments while negotiating parties struggle to find an agreement on these smaller packages? acp countries should not have to choose between trade agreements which may damage their local/regional markets or barriers which cripple their export markets. there is still a choice to be made, and last-minute policy shifts from the commission do nothing to restore the confidence of the disconnected.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, civilians – many of them children – are indiscriminately killed or injured by cluster bombs. dreams are shattered and lives are destroyed. take the case of the iraqi boy, ahmed kamel. attracted by a shiny object, ahmed picked up a bomblet and it exploded. he lost both of his hands and his sight. how is a 12-year-old supposed to make sense of this? and yet the shocking fact is that cluster munitions are stockpiled in over 15 eu member states. horrifyingly, at least 10 eu member states are producing these weapons: france, spain, greece, italy, the netherlands, poland, romania, slovakia, sweden and bulgaria. it is my view that these countries, as well as those that have used them, including the uk, have blood on their hands. whilst i welcome moves by countries such as belgium to establish national legislation to ban cluster munitions, all other eu member states must follow suit. i urge the council and the commission to endorse the oslo process, as we have already called on them to do. diplomatic manoeuvres by the uk government and others to suggest there are ‘dumb’ and ‘smart’ cluster munitions must be given short shrift – they all kill and maim. the word ‘smart’ could not be more misleading or more inappropriate. we need an immediate moratorium on the use, investment, stockpiling, production, transfer or export of all cluster munitions by all eu member states. all states which have used them must accept responsibility for their clearance, and the commission must urgently increase financial assistance to the communities affected by unexploded bomblets. i urge you all to support this resolution.
thank you for your reply, but i would concur with the follow-up question. we do need to know when this is going to be changed. i am speaking particularly about flooding in the uk. obviously this refers to fires, but the solidarity fund covers flooding. my region in the west midlands was very badly hit. my particular village in worcestershire was hit, along with the rest of worcestershire and the surrounding areas in hereford and shropshire. obviously the uk government has put in a bid for solidarity fund money. i am hoping the commission is going to look favourably on that and the council will actually try and make changes to the way the solidarity fund operates so that in future we can get this funding at a faster rate. also, can the council representative tell us what he feels about the rapid reaction force and whether this is going to be brought forward so that emergency flood defences could be brought into affected areas?
i thank the presidency very much for that reply. the case of madeleine mccann has aroused a lot of interest and, indeed, controversy. i am not going to go into the details of that case, but what concerns me here is what lessons we can learn generally about the adequacy of european action in the case of missing children. i want to ask about three issues. the first is a missing children’s hotline. yesterday, commissioner frattini told us that he was not at all satisfied by member states’ action to implement the council decision from february for a single 116 phone number for missing children, which should have been in place in august. only four member states have chosen a service provider, three member states have failed to respond to a request for information at all. that is not very impressive! will you chase up the other 23 member states? secondly, a few weeks ago, justice and home affairs ministers called for an eu database on missing children. i believe that some private attempts have been made in cooperation with youtube and madeleine mccann’s parents. will the eu support having a proper database? thirdly, you talked about work on the exchange of information on sex offenders, but when are we going to have a computerised database?
thank you, president-in-office, for that quite encouraging response. you said you want to send a strong signal and that we need a global agreement. i was interested to hear about a 30% target. i agree with you that we need to be ambitious. of course, this is an area that not only affects most european citizens but also one about which they are very concerned. i wonder if you could outline a little bit more about your thinking on what positive real steps we could be taking to encourage those countries that ought to be able to do more – like the united states – and to assist those countries – whether it is china, india or russia – that are perhaps struggling at the moment. what more could we actually be doing to push this process forward, rather than talking? i am not suggesting that is all you were doing, but, rather than just talking about the issue, what are we actually going to do to make it happen?
thank you, president-in-office, for that quite open, honest and factual reply. will you, at the next jha council meeting, to which you referred, raise the interesting point that the council does not appear to know about this, and that 10 of the member states are not involved, which seems completely extraordinary to me? would you please raise this issue in the council?
madam president, it is important that substances derived from opium, like diamorphine (also known as heroin), are available for medical purposes, especially pain relief, but poppy cultivation provides the taliban terrorists with 20-40% of their funds, which enables them to kill nato soldiers. regrettably, afghan opium production increased 34% this year and constitutes over 90% of global supply. troops from my country, the uk, are leading the fight against the taliban as part of the nato-led international security assistance force (isaf). they do not have the mandate or the manpower to police a large-scale poppy-growing medical project – or, for that matter, to eradicate the crop. they have got quite enough to think about dodging bullets, without becoming part-time market-gardeners. however, i do have some sympathy, as a doctor, with the arguments put forward by the british medical association, which does support cultivating poppies – under strict supervised conditions – to ensure the ready supply of analgesics. my uk parliamentary colleague, tobias ellwood mp, has done much to develop a plan of a six-year period of tapered replacement of poppy crops in afghanistan by cash crops diverting the opium production for medical use. therefore, we should at least explore the idea of a very limited pilot licensing scheme, mindful of the danger of it being hijacked by the taliban for illegal purposes. any trial will, inevitably, have to be confined to a very small area. it will need support from a range of partner organisations if it is going to work. we certainly cannot divert our brave troops from their vital task of fighting terrorism, but it might just have some beneficial effects all round. on the issue of eu-afghan aid, we need a far more coordinated approach by the eu to developing afghan infrastructure and fighting corruption; otherwise, the taliban will indeed prevail, as we are barely containing the taliban in the south of the country. the west must wake up to the realities of afghanistan. international bodies are not coordinating their activities properly. the rampant corruption of the afghan government means that provinces are losing patience with president karzai’s government in kabul. the current centralised model of government does not suit the diversity of interests and ethnicities across the country, which has never had a tradition of strong central government in the past. the provinces are currently given no operational funding to pursue objectives separate from kabul. no long-term economic plan is being followed to harness the plentiful water supply, 92% of which – shamefully and ludicrously – runs out of the country. construction of dams and irrigation systems would allow industrial-scale growth of fruit and vegetables. afghanistan was once upon a time famous for its pomegranates, now very much ‘in’ with the health food lobby. building a much needed railway system would help ship such goods onto the international market. if the country is to be rescued from political and economic disaster, much still urgently needs to be done, madam commissioner.
madam president, as someone who has long opposed fumigation to eradicate drugs as inefficient, often counterproductive and always with damaging side effects to human health, i am sorry that this resolution combines this position with what i believe to be a misguided attempt to encourage licit opium production in afghanistan. this resolution quotes the senlis council report suggesting a global poppy shortage; but that is not poppy, it is poppycock. the international narcotics control board shows world stockpiles of licit opiates equivalent to two years’ demand, whilst london-based johnson matthey, the largest producer of morphine in the world, attest to a world surplus of more than 250 tonnes. the commissioner is right to argue that conditions in afghanistan would not allow afghan farmers to benefit. this is just one of many forced assumptions in the draft resolution. opium poppy is grown on less than 4% of agricultural land. licit cultivation would add to illicit cultivation, not replace it. according to the independent asia foundation survey, 80% of afghan people oppose this drugs trade. the afghan government opposes it, president karzai calling opium ‘the enemy of humanity’. just weeks before the time for sowing poppy, it would send precisely the wrong political signal. i have every respect for the rapporteur, but on this issue, i regret, the house will divide. poppy for medicine is a beguiling phrase; but the truth, instead, is that opium funds the violence and insecurity in afghanistan. poppy for corruption and terrorism would be the more apt phrase.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, i welcome the green paper and look forward to an early follow-up on more concrete proposals. it is clearly in the interests of fostering cross-border trade for businesses to have the confidence to be able to recover debt. citizens also need that confidence at an individual and private level. my opinion received unanimous support in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, not because we reached hard-fought compromises, but because there was a common view from the outset. i am pleased that almost everything that we adopted has fitted into, or been covered by, the final report by the committee on legal affairs, for which i thank the rapporteur. two points that did not make it into the report were the possibility of applying attachment to joint accounts and the investigation of optional domestic use of the cross-border provision. in a less prescriptive form, there is an amendment concerning joint accounts that has gained support elsewhere. it is clearly a loophole if a nominal joint account enables evasion of attachment orders, but genuine third party funds must be protected. concerning the optional domestic use of the cross-border provision, i note what colleagues in the committee on legal affairs said about the measure only being possible cross-border, be that for legal reasons or for practical reasons of achieving something in a reasonable timescale. however, unless alternative remedies exist in those member states where attachment is not possible, or is extremely difficult, there could be a competitive mismatch, at least from the business aspect, with the rather unusual situation of a cross-border business being better off than a domestic one. perhaps member states will take note of this and competition will deliver what we do not or cannot legislate for.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i too would like to congratulate mr lechner on his report. i want to start with, as it were, a confession. before i arrived in this house i was a lawyer. in fact i was not only a lawyer, but a lawyer dealing in debt collecting, often cross-border. my experience in this area is that the most damage is caused to small enterprises that have plucked up courage to trade cross-border, and are then ruined by a bad debt and a professional debtor hiding in another country. i therefore consider this initiative to be a way, if we can get it right, of boosting europe’s economy and encouraging cross-border trade. we have to get tough. the payment order was a step in the right direction. this is the next piece in the jigsaw. however, i have two points to make. first of all, we are dealing with cross-border cases only. we accept the reality of that constraint, but what i do not want to see is creditors having to make two applications to courts: one in respect of debtors in the home country, followed by another in a different country, cross-border. that may give the debtor warning and it may cause all sorts of complications. we therefore need to ensure that there are concurrent procedures available. secondly, this is, of course, a balance of interests between the creditors and the debtors. we have a good system in england, under which when you are given such an interim measure, you have to provide an undertaking to the court, in damages, to respect the interests of third parties. this may be the bank that has to organise the attachment, or a third party that might hold a joint account. i would recommend a system along those lines. i commend the report and the ideas in it. i believe it could do much to boost europe’s economy if we get things right.
the next item is the report by luciana sbarbati, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the european ombudsman’s activities in 2006 (2007/2131(ini) (a6-0301/2007). we are pleased to welcome the ombudsman this morning, and commissioner wallström.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and, through her, my colleague, mr mavrommatis, but, of course, especially the ombudsman himself on another successful year. three hundred or so complaints a month is a huge workload and equates both to rising interest in the system but also to rising concern at aspects of eu maladministration. whilst many cases are dealt with by cooperation, the ombudsman refers to the increase in critical comment that he is forced to make. this must improve, or parliament will have to find ways of compelling the commission to be helpful and responsive and, equally, to act upon the conclusions produced by the ombudsman. he makes telling comments. i want to pick out one: ‘i am not sure that the citizen can easily reconcile the statements often made by the institutions that they want to get “closer to the citizen” with the fact that the very same institutions frequently fail to take up the opportunities offered by the ombudsman to improve relations.’ the services of the ombudsman should, and do, work hand in hand with the committee on petitions, but the commission must develop a culture of service rather than the avoidance of problems, and ministers and permanent representatives must understand the vital importance of responding positively to grievances from constituents and citizens, voiced either through the ombudsman or the petitions committee. finally, may i make a brief reference to an outstanding special report by the ombudsman, namely that relating to a complaint against olaf. as the petitions committee rapporteur for this issue, i give notice now that, the judicial process having been completed on this case, i will not allow the issue of the special report to be swept under the carpet. it will be reconsidered as soon as is practically possible. may i conclude with thanks, again, not only to you, madam president, for delighting us with your presence, but also to the ombudsman and the commissioner for being here as well.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, i would just like to remind the house that this is the amendment concerning the unified sports programme for the special olympics.
mr president, on a point of order, i rise under rule 166, which says that the member shall first specify to which rule he is referring. i am referring to that one. i understand that you cut off mr martin before he had a chance to finish what he wanted to say. he was making a point about yesterday. yesterday, mr schulz made a lengthy political statement without referring to the rule under which he was speaking. it was allowed by the president, whereas mr martin was cut off. i think there is a bias at work here and a double standard, where those in favour of the eu are allowed to say what they want and those who are not in favour of it are cut off. could we have an even application of the rules please? (applause from the right)
in writing. i completely oppose european funds being used to grow tobacco in the european union. half a million eu citizens die needlessly each year due to tobacco addiction. we cannot continue to subsidise tobacco growing in the eu.
in writing. i voted for this part of the 2008 budget, while supporting the uk government's position on a range of issues.
in writing. i voted for these sections of the 2008 budget.
in writing. i voted for the reports in respect of the 2008 draft budget, but i did so heavy in heart because it would appear that the expensive circus that is our regular visits to strasbourg looks set to continue. it is particularly poignant that we are voting to carry on meeting in strasbourg on the same day that air france has decided to leave some of our number stranded, or certainly inconvenienced, because of industrial action by some of its staff. martin luther king once said “i have a dream”. i too have a dream; and that dream is that one day this parliament has a single seat from which to operate and the strasbourg circus will come to an end.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out ways to help a sentenced person's reintegration into society, provide better protection for victims and help with the enforcement of appropriate sentences where offenders are not resident.
in writing. i voted for this report, which endorsed the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar. it is a tuna agreement which allocates fishing opportunities, according to three categories of vessel, to spain, france, italy, portugal and the united kingdom. it provides fishery resources for eu vessels, whilst enabling madagascar to receive income for stocks which the country would not have the technical capacity to exploit.
in writing. i voted for this uncontroversial report, which endorses the proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of a new fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and mozambique. the agreement has been signed for a period of five years (renewable) from its entry into force, and it grants fishing opportunities to vessels from spain, france, italy, portugal and the united kingdom.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, which helps improve those parts of the eu's statistical system that involve registers of information about businesses operating in the union.
in writing. i voted for this resolution, which reaffirms the need to strengthen international humanitarian law (ihl) as it applies to cluster munitions and speedily to adopt at international level a comprehensive ban on the use, production, transfer and stockpiling of cluster munitions. the house also noted it strongly supports the oslo process launched in february 2007.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party could not support this resolution, as at its core is a proposal to encourage opium growing in afghanistan. this runs contrary to efforts being put in place by the government of afghanistan with the support of the international community, and also runs contrary to the wishes of 80% of the afghan people - the opium industry feeds the taliban insurgency. we note that the number of opium-free provinces in afghanistan has more than doubled this year. we voted against the original texts in paragraph 1(a) and 1(b) as we feel strongly that there is no role for the european parliament in promoting any projects which encourage the production of opium in afghanistan. we voted against the report for the reasons above, and also because this proposal is based on a factually incorrect presumption of a global shortage of opiates for medicinal use. the international narcotics control board (incb) has stated that an overproduction in licit opiates since 2000 has led to stockpiles in producing countries 'that could cover demand for two years'.
in writing. i voted against this report. there is no shortage of opium available for medical use in the world, and the security situation in afghanistan does not seem likely to lend itself to secure production and collection of opium for medical purposes.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. attachment is a process by which a creditor can apply to a court to freeze a bank account in order to prevent someone disposing of claimed monies. it strikes a balance between the rights of creditors to recover debts and the provision of adequate protection for defendants. it does not conflict with national laws, and should make a common standard procedure available across the eu.
author. – mr president, let me start by expressing my sympathy to the victims of the horrific bomb attack in karachi. our thoughts go out to all of those who were affected by that dramatic action. pakistan is a nation which we in europe should care deeply about. it is a great trading nation, it is an exporter of people, not least to this continent, and it is a vital ally in the fight against terrorism. it is a matter, therefore, of great sadness that, in its 60-year history, pakistan has failed to become a true democracy; but, on the other hand, we should be encouraged by the fact that it has not become a theocracy or even a permanent military dictatorship. once again in pakistan, the window is opening for democracy. we await the outcome of the court ruling on the legality of the president’s election. we call on president musharraf to accept the outcome if it goes against him, but i also call on people in pakistan and throughout the world to accept the ruling of the court if it rules in favour of the president. i think it is the only basis on which we can move forward in the country. in relation to the election in january, i hope that the government will pursue and continue to prepare for that election, and will make it possible for ms benazir bhutto to campaign in a secure fashion. in saying that, i know we imply that the government was behind the bombing; i do not believe that, but we need to make sure that the security of all the candidates is guaranteed and the government does its best to protect ms benazir bhutto. i also believe that mr sharif should be allowed to return to the country and campaign if he so wishes, and again have his security guaranteed. the military should stand back during the whole period of the election campaign, and i hope, before january – and, indeed, before campaigning begins – that the president will get himself out of uniform and turn his country into a true civilian government. that is the best hope for the future of pakistan, and it is the best hope for relations between europe and pakistan: that we get a democratically elected parliament in january, with the president out of uniform, in ‘civvies’.
author. – mr president, last week’s suicide bomb blast in karachi reminded us of just how perilously close pakistan has come to anarchy. the prospect of a nuclear-armed pakistan becoming a rogue state controlled by islamist fanatics is, quite frankly, terrifying. i am not especially a fan of benazir bhutto, whose period in office as prime minister was marked by widespread corruption, but, ultimately, a democratic and secular-leaning government under civilian control is always preferable to a military dictatorship, compromised in this case by its links to islamist parties and the afghan taliban. president musharraf is supposed to be our ally in the war on terror; sometimes i wonder how committed he is to rooting out terrorism in his own country. hopefully, ms bhutto’s return to pakistan may be a fillip for human rights now. one major concern is the ongoing repression of religious minorities, including christians, hindus and ahmadi muslims. if she is to be taken seriously as a progressive leader of a more modern pakistan, she must make sure that pakistan respects its international obligations under human rights conventions. but, while pakistan faces many challenges, we should recognise that some progress is being made in some areas. the economy continues to grow, and pakistan has also engaged in confidence-building measures with india with regard to the dispute over jammu and kashmir. one question which remains totally unanswered is how, legally, the pakistani government, in spite of a supreme court judgment permitting former prime minister nawaz sharif to return from exile to pakistan, deported him immediately to saudi arabia. how, in international law, can a government deport one of its own citizens? nawaz sharif may yet have a vital role to play in re-establishing multiparty civilian democratic politics in pakistan.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the pakistani people do not deserve military dictatorship, violence and lawlessness. therefore, one of key articles in this resolution is the one which reaffirms our solidarity with the people of pakistan, who share the objectives of democratic governance and transparent, accountable rule, and who act with courage and determination in the face of terrorist and criminal violence. that is, of course, why we put the stress on the need for a return to democracy and civilian government with free and fair elections in january as being the only way to answer the challenges of pakistani society. at the same time, we also stress the need to remove the militarisation of pakistani society and deplore the failure of president musharraf to stand down as army chief, as he promised he would. the rule of law is extremely uneven in pakistan. there have been some encouraging developments at times, but these are also accompanied by some very repressive judgments. this falls particularly hard on minorities, religious and otherwise, as well as on women. we rightly call for improvement in that area. this as well, of course, as deploring the suicide bombing and the 140 victims and 500 injured last week. i fear that these could become a pretext for restricting political activity, because already there has been an announcement by the government that political parties will only be allowed to hold meetings in well-secured parks and public grounds rather than organise processions. one could see how that might be made a pretext. finally, one of the more close-to-home reasons for my wanting pakistan to fight both extremism and militarisation, and to return to the rule of law, is the impact on british people of pakistani origin, with the calls, for instance, for profiling or for visa requirements for the united states. it would remove that threat to people like my constituents if pakistan were to be a democratic society.
mr president, i know that my colleague tried to interject when you raised it, but i think it would be helpful if i made one thing clear to the chamber: we are not seeking to have a debate with the commission and the council about this; we know how little time we have with the council this week. but if there could be a statement from the commission and we could have a debate on that basis, then that would be sufficient.
mr president, one of the greatest problems in relation to eu policy is implementation. this is particularly true in relation to directives relating to lisbon and climate change. on 4 january 2006 the energy performance of the buildings directive should have been implemented in all member states. this would have led to massive energy savings. the problem is that only eight countries communicated full transposition on time. that means that all of the following countries have failed to implement the laws that they themselves signed up to: france, italy, belgium, luxembourg, the uk, spain, austria, finland, sweden, estonia, latvia, poland, the czech republic, slovenia, hungary, romania, greece, cyprus and malta. the eu will lose credibility and its attempts to reduce carbon emissions will not be taken seriously unless its laws are respected on time. i urge you to write to the member states i have just mentioned, to speed up implementation of this important directive.
mr president, this is a ‘catch-the-eye’ debate. how did that member manage to catch your eye without being here?
mr president, i would like to bring to the attention of the house a proposal by fifa, the governing body of football, allowing players born in northern ireland to represent the republic of ireland. the northern ireland football team has a very proud history going back many decades and has produced many great football teams over the years, defeating many of the large nations in europe. over those years, northern ireland has had many difficulties, as it has over the past 30 years, but during all that time, soccer was able to bring the people together. so i say clearly to fifa: you are wrong to go down this road, and it would certainly not help northern ireland’s chances of developing totally in the future, especially at a time when we believed we were returning to normality.
mr president, i would like to raise the issue of cadbury schweppes, which has just announced in my own constituency that it is going to close its factory in keynsham with the loss of 500 jobs and move production to poland. this has been opposed by the british and polish trade unions as they believe that this is an attempt by cadbury schweppes to race to the bottom, with people prepared to take the lowest wages being taken on board. chocolate has been produced in keynsham for 250 years, and for nearly 100 years by cadbury schweppes. it is going to create 500 job losses there and the total, with the knock-on effects for subcontractors, will be something like 1 500. it is hoping to get european money to help pay for moving this production. i am fully in favour of european job-creation projects, and i hope that the commission will continue them – whether in the united kingdom, poland or elsewhere – but money from the european union is for job creation and not job relocation. i hope the point will be made very clearly to the commission that we do not expect it to pay for these job losses.
mr president, the european court of human rights recently made a ruling with far-reaching implications. the case in question was that of the amalgamated society of locomotive engineers and firemen versus the uk. it concerned mr jay lee, who had been a member of aslef and the british national party. mr lee was expelled by aslef because of his bnp membership. the court upheld this action. the bnp is a political party with its roots in neo-nazism. nevertheless, under uk law, membership is perfectly legal. the british government has conceded that trade union law must now be amended so that unions can expel members whose political views they do not like. the role of trade unions is to collectively represent the material interests of their members in the workplace, not to decide what political views are acceptable or unacceptable. the court’s decision is yet another european nail in the coffin of british liberties.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, first of all may i join in congratulating mrs jordan cizelj on her report. she has put a lot of work into making many serious and sensible improvements to this proposal. i have to say that i hope very much that the council will take them on board. i am aware that we are only in consultation on this. i welcome the emphasis in the report on openness – openness as to the functioning of the agency – and the emphasis on the role that this parliament should play in the work of the agency. in that vein i support the amendments from the committee on budgets, which exercises our authority as part of the budgetary authority. i also welcome the proposals that mrs jordan cizelj has put in for clarification of the role of the agency, in particular the role of its committee. although i might not personally be quite so enthusiastic about an increase in numbers, nevertheless, i think it is extremely helpful to be more open and specific about the role of the committee. by way of contrast, i have to express my regret at one or two wrecking amendments, particularly amendment 39, which i think, rather mischievously – but perhaps deliberately – goes in exactly the opposite direction from the intention and role of the agency and the whole euratom treaty. but there we are. perhaps it is not such a surprise, coming from the verts/ale group. but, finally, i would like to welcome the renaissance of nuclear energy – as the commissioner has said, at both european and international level – because of the vital role it will have to play in dealing with climate change.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, most of us recognise the benefits of migration. the member states which have opened their borders to migrants from other member states have not seen a rise in unemployment; rather, they have seen a growth in productivity, a rise in economic growth and the creation of new jobs. it is the old, old story. the incomers do jobs that the natives do not want to do, they work hard, they cost little and they bring new ideas. but it is important to recognise that some people cross borders not wishing to work – or at least not wishing to work legally. european union law recognises this, as you have laid out, commissioner. while giving the right to reside in other member states, it allows the host state to limit the right of residence to three months if there is no means of subsistence and to terminate that right if there is a threat to public order. one of the great successes of our union has been this right to move freely, now enjoyed by millions of citizens in their studies, in their working lives, in retirement. it is not without its challenges and, just as the jews, a people lacking a homeland, were often unwelcome in ages past, so today the roma, some nine million people, are discriminated against in many host countries. yet to equate the roma people with the country of romania, even if many of them are romanian citizens, is to misunderstand the nature of both. you might as well equate them with the city of roma. european union funds have been made available for the integration of the roma. we are working with george soros and his decade of roma inclusion. but we need all member states to sign up to that and a common community framework strategy for roma inclusion if this is to work. it is a pity that italy did not draw down any of these funds. spain drew down some eur 52 million and poland some eur 8 million. but it is not only a lack of foresight on the part of the italian government; it is also matched by a lack of foresight on the part of the commission. i think mr barroso was wrong when he said in his interview in la repubblica yesterday that it is inconceivable that european union authorities should promote integration on the ground. it should not be inconceivable. i share, mr frattini, the views of mr schulz. you should not be playing party politics in this matter. this house demands that you concentrate on your current responsibilities, not on your possible future career. italians know as well as others the vulnerability of migrant communities. in 1893, at aigues-mortes in france, italian salt workers in the peccais were lynched in xenophobic attacks about the protection of local jobs. but one of the great achievements of the union is that such pogroms are a piece of the past. too often, nonetheless, democracies are run by crisis management. it is, perhaps, more evident in italy than elsewhere. but if there are problems in italy, there will be problems in other countries too. if the right of residence abroad is an eu right, we cannot allow member states to rewrite the exceptional provisions, as the italian government has done in its decree. there is nothing to stop a country giving powers to prefects to deal with it as long as there is a right of appeal. an appeal to a justice of the peace who is not a legal expert is insufficient, just as is the use only of italian or english in legal documents. but i trust the italian parliament will correct these provisions and ensure consistency of the national legislation with eu provisions. for us, this is the first real case of the european parliament overseeing the application of justice and home affairs legislation, together with national parliaments. we need to look not only at what does not work, but at what does work, and we need your active commitment, commissioner, in that task. (applause from the centre and left)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – madam president, i would really much prefer that this directive was not coming before us. i would be supporting a rejection of it – not because i do not want to see soil protected, because it is in all our interests that it should be. but is the directive the right way forward? commissioner dimas, you said yourself that, at the moment, only nine member states have legislation in place to protect soil. i would suggest that it is up to the other 18 member states to put legislation in place to protect the soil and we should not necessarily bring forward another directive. we already have a groundwater directive and a nitrates directive. as far as agriculture is concerned, we have got a lot of cross compliance legislation that deals with the soil and soil compaction. i know the rapporteur is doing her very best to bring agriculture out of the proposal but i rather fear that what we will see is yet more bureaucracy and yet more difficulties for farmers. the commissioner also stated that there are 300 types of soil throughout the european union. it is very difficult to have one general directive to cover all these positions. you only have to consider agriculture in a year like this, where in some member states there have been droughts and others have had very wet weather, very heavy rainfall. if you dig potatoes in many of the northern member states this year, where there has been lots of rain, then of course you will cause compaction. it is necessary to do that in order to get the crop. that can be rectified the following year by subsoiling and repairing the damage to the soil. we need flexibility in all this. i really do think that the idea of having yet another directive in order to put more regulation upon our farmers and upon our industry is the wrong way to go.
madam president, we are familiar with the idea that a land grab is the unwarranted appropriation of property belonging to another. it seems to me that this soil directive amounts to an unwarranted power grab by brussels, and of course brings with it an inevitable layer of fresh bureaucracy. soil, as has been said in this debate, unlike air and water, does not flow from state to state. it has no cross-border dimension. thus policy on soil is and should remain a member state issue. ippc, cross-compliance obligations, the landfill directive and the nitrates directive all give us more than enough eu involvement. hence i have no apology for favouring total rejection of this power-hungry proposal. but, if, true to form, the eu nonetheless decides to meddle in this national issue, then one initiative it could consider is to introduce a payment to farmers in return for providing carbon sequestration in soil management and farming practices.
madam president, this proposal for a directive on soil protection has huge credibility gaps. firstly, soil contents and qualities in different parts of an individual country vary considerably. how much more variance will there be between the soils of 27 different countries with vastly differing climates? it is absurd to suggest that the eu can introduce a one-size-fits-all directive on soil from the mediterranean to scandinavia. now a word on behalf of our already hard-pressed farmers, many of whom have written to my constituency office to strongly question the need for a directive on soil protection. they have quite rightly pointed out that they have a vested interest in protecting the soil, because it is their livelihood. they also suggest that it would place another onerous burden upon them because of the failure to give enough recognition to existing national legislation. the second large credibility gap is provided by the eu’s short-sighted open border policy, which has encouraged mass immigration from eastern europe to my country. this has generated the need for a correspondingly huge programme of house building on every square inch of land available – some three million new homes by 2020, we are told. even the green belt is under threat. burying vast acreages under solid concrete is not my idea of the best way to protect soil.
mr president, may i first of all congratulate mrs gutiérrez-cortines. i think she has done an absolutely fantastic job on a report which is not needed or wanted by most of us and, commissioner dimas, in my opinion brings this house and the commission into total disrepute. you are bringing out legislation which is totally and utterly unnecessary. what you should be doing is enforcing the legislation that we have. the commission usually fails totally in enforcing legislation which is already there. i can give you a number of cases, but i do not wish to do it just now. if i were to look, for example, at your colleague, mr kyprianou: we have just had yet another outbreak of foot-and-mouth in the united kingdom; we have got bluetongue; today it was announced that we have avian flu. he promised to stop all this. he was going to do everything to stop it. i believed him. i believe the commission when it says something, and yet what happens is that it does not enforce the legislation that is in place to stop these sorts of things coming in. i call on this house to totally reject this piece of legislation. i think mrs gutiérrez-cortines has done an absolutely fantastic job and i will support her totally if this house decides not to reject it, but i shall briefly mention something that mrs scheele and mrs corbey said on erosion. i totally agree with them. erosion is a big problem, but not necessarily in the european union. it is a problem where we have deforestation, and that is something that we could do something about. i thought mr allister’s points were absolutely correct. i think the commission is failing us. it fails to enforce regulations. i will leave you with one last thought. as a farmer, the soil is my life. i will protect it to the very best of my ability. do not put more legislation in place. allow me to get on with protecting the soil, which provides the food, which provides the income for the people who live in the rural communities.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, mr liese has produced an excellent report. nevertheless, as ppe-de group shadow on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i support my group’s amendments, which seek what we think is a better balance between wish and reality. in my view, the emissions trading scheme is the most cost-efficient, demand-sensitive and objective market-based instrument available for reaching europe’s greenhouse gas emissions reduction target of at least 20% by 2020. the aviation sector’s contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is growing fast, and i therefore fully support its inclusion in the emissions trading scheme. we must have a single start date. i think 2011 is a reasonable compromise between the different dates we have before us. and with this, europe will lead the way strongly for the rest of the world. the amount of allowances allocated by auctioning should be set at a reasonably high and increasing level, in order to avoid the disadvantages for competition which are associated with grandfathering and benchmarking. auctioning is much more economically efficient; it encourages new entrants, innovation, and the reduction of emissions through technological and operational improvements. the revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances should be reinvested in r&d in the aviation industry. there is much potential for technological innovation, to reduce the sector’s co2 emissions. furthermore, the single european sky, which the commission mentioned, when fully implemented will reduce co2 emissions by up to 12%, and this should be put into operation with urgency. in our amendments we have highlighted the importance of giving special consideration to remote and isolated regions. now we can only hope that the council will respond positively to parliament’s insistent wake-up call.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should like to thank mr liese for his excellent cooperation and congratulate him on his work. however, i have to say that i appreciated his work a lot more before he had to seek compromises within his political group, which, if adopted, would substantially weaken the position taken by an overwhelming majority in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety just last month. that matters, because we have to substantially strengthen the commission’s original proposal if we are to have any real chance of seriously reducing the impact of aviation on our climate. according to the commission’s own figures, all its proposals are currently going to achieve is that, by 2020, instead of aviation emissions growing by 83% under a do-nothing scenario, they would grow instead by 78%. that reduction is the equivalent of less than one year’s growth in air travel. that is not serious, it is not ambitious, it is not global leadership. to achieve emission reductions via trading relies crucially on scarcity of permits. since aviation emissions have already doubled since 1990, to call for an initial allocation equivalent to average emissions over the period 2004-2006, or even 80-90% of that, is simply too generous. i therefore urge you to support my group’s amendments for an initial allocation that is 50% of that amount. we also need 100% auctioning so that there are no windfall profits at the expense of the passenger. finally, i urge you to vote against the alde group’s frankly scandalous amendment, which seeks to remove the restrictions on access to clean development mechanism and joint implementation project credits, not just for aviation but for all sectors in the ets. removing such limits provides an open invitation to business as usual. aviation and the other industries will be able to continue to increase their emissions without constraint by merely buying up the supposed reductions made elsewhere, and, considering recent reports that up to half of reductions from cdm and ji projects are questionable, this will fundamentally undermine the integrity of the entire scheme. tomorrow the european parliament faces a serious test of whether it really wants to take real action on climate change, and, if it is going to show genuine leadership, then it needs to support the green amendments.
thar ceann an ghrúpa gue/ngl. – d’iarr an scáthrapóirtéir don ghrúpa gue/ngl, jens holm, orm a leithscéal a ghabháil de thairbhe nach féidir leisean a bheith anseo don díospóireacht anocht. cuirfidh mise seasamh gue/ngl faoi bhur mbráid. tá sé in am do na haerlínte a bheith páirteach sa troid in aghaidh athrú aeráide. tá an dá oiread d’éalú gáis cheaptha teasa ann anois ó eitlíocht idirnáisiúnta an ae ó bhí 1990 ann. sin idir 5% agus 12% d’éalú dé-ocsáide carbóin iomlán an ae. thug ceannairí an ae coimitmint i mí márta na bliana seo laghdú 20% ar leibhéal éalaithe dé-ocsáide carbóin na bliana 1990 a thabhairt isteach roimh 2020. tá deis againn anois a thaispeáint don domhan mór go mbainfear amach na spriocanna sin. moltar sa togra ón choimisiún nach mbeadh ar earnáil na heitlíochta ach cloí le meánleibhéal na mblianta 2004–2006. sin 90% níos airde ná leibhéal na bliana 1990. molann an coimisiún fosta nach mbeadh ceantáil ann ach do thart faoi 3% de na liúntais. tá easpa dreasachta ann do na haerlínte an leibhéal astúchán seo acu féin a laghdú má thugtar cead astaithe carbóin dóibh saor in aisce. bheadh leibhéal 100% de cheantáil – mar atá muid féin agus na glasaigh ag moladh – ar aon dul leis an phrionsabal ‘íoc mar a thruaillítear. ’creideann an grúpa gue/ngl gur chóir go mbeadh méid na liúntas a dháiltear amach ag 20% de mheánleibhéal na mblianta 2004–2006; go mbeadh srian curtha ar méid na liúntas gur féidir leis an earnáil eitlíochta a cheannach ó earnálacha eile nó ó thionscadail cdm; agus go mbeadh leibhéal 100% de cheantáil ann. is mór-rannpháirtithe iad aerlínte i dtaca le giniúint gháis cheaptha teasa san eoraip agus ar fud an domhain. tá an t-am buailte linn chun deireadh a chur leis an láimhseáil speisialta agus chun an éifeacht seo acu ar ár gcomhshaol agus ar athrú aeráide a ghlacadh san áireamh.
mr president, we propose to bring a new industry, aviation, into the european emissions trading system (ets), yet that system is spectacularly failing. it has not reduced carbon emissions at all, yet it has created a whole new stratum of bureaucracy, administration and expense for industry. it has transferred large sums of money from countries which have been responsible with initial allocations to those which have been profligate, notably from britain to france and germany. within britain it has had the perverse effect of transferring funds from hospitals to big oil companies. the ets has created a complex web of politically influential vested interests and rent seekers who have lobbied to manipulate the system for their own ends. the commission’s plans to get tough over allocations will simply move the problem on. with lax limits on allocations bought in from outside europe, eu funds will flow to countries like china, where regulation is minimal and records may not be accurate. so big foreign polluters will make vast profits for little effort, great damage will be done to european economies and co2 emissions will continue unchecked. mr president, it is quite simply scandalous that we propose to bring a new industry into this failing system. i say to you that you must put your own house in order before you think of extending it.
mr president, i have here a letter from general motors complaining about parliament’s position on reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars. i have another letter from british airways – another bit of special pleading – complaining about this measure and how the extra costs will mean it will be more difficult for them to invest in the lower carbon technology in planes that they wish to have. i do not believe a word of these letters! just special pleading from one industry after another. have none of these executives read the united nations report? this report says that, within 20 years, up to two billion people will face severe water scarcity, partly because of climate change. we have to do something about this. michael o’leary of ryanair may be the unacceptable face of public relations for the airline industry, but he speaks a lot of truth when he says, very clearly, that he does not give a toss for the environment so long as he can stuff his pockets and those of his company full of gold. well, we have to provide some balance. we have to ensure and facilitate the position of our constituents who enjoy travel, but we also have to make sure that the concerns for the environment are properly addressed. now, this measure here goes a small way towards slowing the spectacular growth of the airline industry. it will encourage the industry to invest in abatement measures. it will ensure that at least the basic principle that the polluter pays should be incorporated into our approach. but above all we have to ensure that we have a cap which encourages measures to be taken, a cap which, i think, must be at least a little bit more ambitious than that currently proposed by the commission.
mr president, first of all, i would like to say that it is lovely it is to see mr dimas back. it is pretty much accepted that the carbon emissions in relation to aviation are currently a very small proportion of the overall carbon emissions of the eu. but you would have to be a fool not to see the incredible growth in the sector in recent years and to recognise that the industry’s own plans for expansion are enormous. currently, the technology for alternative, less polluting fuels are limited in relation to aviation. this is why it makes absolute sense to accept that aviation is likely to continue to grow, but we need to ensure that this growth is offset in other sectors of the economy which do have alternatives in terms of reducing carbon emissions. that is why it is essential that aviation is brought into the emissions trading scheme (ets). i would also like to underline the point that the eu has a principle that it is the polluter who should pay. under the current ets, far from the polluter paying, we have seen many polluters making windfall profits thanks to the ets. this has to stop. it is right, therefore, that many of these carbon creators should be auctioned, especially when the wholesale reform happens. perhaps one of the most interesting aspects of this debate is the question of where ets auction money should be spent. in the forthcoming ets review, there is potentially eur 200 billion which could be raised if we went for full auctioning. i am sure many of us could think of countless ways to spend that kind of money, but i believe it would be sensible if we could steer this money via the eu budget, if possible, to spend on climate change initiatives which could include transfers of finance to the developing world including, for example, to pay for reforestation in developing or emerging countries. but, also, there needs to be recognition that even in our own member states we are likely to see a huge increase in terms of energy poverty. perhaps we should think about steering the money in this direction as well. so the decisions we make tomorrow will give an indication of where we should go, in terms of the ets reform as a whole.
mr president, tonight, for once, parliament really can lead the way in protecting the environment. i think, as mr belder said, the commission was really a bit timid in its original proposal. the european public, i think, will be looking to this parliament to set the highest standards and ambitious targets. as a member of the committee on transport, and along with my colleagues in the pse group, i did not support mr jarzembowski’s line that was pushed through with, i regret to say, the support of the liberal group, the alde group. we wanted to strengthen the original proposal, not to water it down. so i say congratulations to mr liese for his report, and i quote, ‘we do not just inherit this planet from our ancestors, our parents, we borrow it from our children’. and, like ms lucas, i appeal to all the groups in this parliament to think about how they vote tomorrow; be prepared to compromise, be sensible, be realistic, but above all, be positive, because parliament has a chance to be at the forefront of protecting the environment for 500 million citizens and their descendants.
in writing. – aviation should be brought within the scope of the emissions trading scheme. the ets has shown its worth since being set-up two years ago. it should be a useful means of ensuring that the aviation industry plays its part in the fight against climate change. however we also need to reform the scheme so that it can fulfil its role effectively. of course, none of us believes that this development alone is the answer to the emissions problem but it does represent a significant step in the right direction. furthermore, it shows that the political will is there to take difficult decisions for the benefit the planet and its inhabitants. what we must also see is essential reforms of the way the emissions trading scheme works. in all of this we must ensure that the consumer is not unfairly burdened with huge rises in the cost of flying and consider looking at other ways in which co2 emissions from the aviation industry can be reduced. i am aware that eu transport ministers are currently doing this by examining ways of modernising air traffic control and introducing new systems of landing fees related to greenhouse gas emissions.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, adoption of the ifrs 8 standard will enable our companies to use the standard for the current financial year and put an end to uncertainty. the management approach will enable our companies to report publicly, with the same structure used internally, thereby reducing the burden of reporting. users will have access to information that was previously kept internally. so ifrs 8 is a win for both the companies and the investors. but i have some concerns about the impact assessment that follow a pattern about which i have spoken before. respondents this time seemed predominantly producers rather than users, and with regard to users there were no questions on comparability. a more pro-active approach may need to be taken with respect to impact assessments generally, and it certainly cannot have helped in this instance if one hoped-for sector of respondents does not have key questions posed. further, some of the justifications in the report do very little to justify. indeed, to me they look more like the type of document that is written ahead of meetings in the hope of reaching agreement. i am very british about this and prefer my minutes and responses and reports to look like they were drafted after events. i regret that european companies have been kept waiting for our endorsement of the standard, but parliament should not be expected to give its assent, on a say-so, without time and proper information to make an assessment. however, i am pleased that there has been an improvement in cooperation recently, and i look forward to that continuing.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this is a political programme which suits a year in which the pace of integration is going to quicken dramatically with the completion of the reform treaty process and the expansion of the schengen and the euro zones. but preparing for the bringing into force of the treaty will be our principal task and here the liberal group have two principal concerns. first: that in building the area of freedom, security and justice the integration of the third pillar with the first should be as fast and comprehensive as possible. and secondly, with relation to the cfsp, reaching a first class agreement between the council, commission and parliament upon the setting up of the external service promises to be fairly exciting and quite tricky. to explain and justify the treaty to national parliaments and to public opinion, we ought to put greater stress on the social and cultural dimension of the single market, such as migration policy, as well as on the fight to combat climate change. these things will assist us to sell the treaty. the cap check should be directly associated with the future reform of the financial system through an expansion of a cofinancing of the cap. finally, i should be grateful to hear the college’s assessment of president sarkozy’s plan to establish a further ‘comité des sages’ to brood on the future of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome many aspects of the commission programme. in particular, i am delighted to see the commission’s commitment to bring forward a specific horizontal directive under article 13 to combat discrimination in access to goods and services, although perhaps i would have preferred to see specific directives in all sectors. however, i do welcome it. this is something i and many other colleagues have been calling for, and i look forward to working with the commission closely on this. i also welcome the commission’s commitment to a communication on hospital-acquired infections. we need to work towards a code of practice at european level to ensure best practice is shared and standards are raised, given the stark differences that exist between member states. i would also like to see an amendment to the 2000 biological agents directive to protect health workers from contracting hiv and hepatitis c from needle stick injuries. there are over one million such injuries across the eu each year, and i am disappointed that there is no action planned in this 2008 work programme. i would urge the commission to bring forward that amendment as soon as possible in line with the parliament’s request. i would also say, under health and safety legislation, that i am pleased that you are committed to having impact assessments before any new legislation is brought forward. but i urge you to make sure that you look at the implementation of current legislation as well.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mr barroso this morning sounds rather like a bad first world war general: let us do the same thing we did last week, even though it did not work. there is absolutely no recognition that the model simply is not working. i mean, how could he talk about growth and jobs without acknowledging that this wonderful, fabled lisbon strategy has been a total disaster? we have not achieved a single one of the objectives. and yet we talk about growth and jobs, but what are we going to do? are we going to deregulate? are we going to lift the burden off business? no, nothing of the kind. i wonder how he has got the front to talk about a sustainable europe when we still have the same common fisheries policy, we are still throwing back, dead, up to 50% of the fish we catch and yet we are going to stick with the quota system. but perhaps my favourite is the idea that this commission programme is going to put the citizens first. that is laughable! if you wanted to put the citizens first, you would respect their opinions. you would have listened to what the french and dutch said and you would give them, with this new treaty, the opportunity, in free and fair and open referendums, to see whether they share with you the same vision for the future of europe. but you are doing none of that. you are burying your heads in the sand. you are pretending it is not happening and you are actually destroying your own european union because the whole thing falls further into public contempt.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, thank you to the commission. the commission’s policy is lisbon. the parliament’s policy is lisbon, but lisbon is not happening. we want to know why not, we want to see progress and we want to see that monitoring and enforcement. president barroso talked about prizes. let us have the barroso prize for achievement each year for the member state that has made most progress. why not? give them some encouragement. where we do want progress is on some of the things in the programme. we obviously want it on emissions trading. we do not want to see it slipping any more than the one month he referred to. we want progress on climate change, quite clearly. we want progress both in terms of what we can do through legislative restriction on emissions and so on, but also what we can do to encourage individuals. so let us have the things like eco-labelling proposals coming forward. we also want some progress on the information to patients – mr verheugen’s proposal. we want to see progress on patient mobility and cross-border health. that is urgent. otherwise, we are going to have lawyers deciding policy for us. we want to see that coming forward along with measures on patient safety, medical professionals’ information, work on hospital-acquired infections, work against the counterfeiting of drugs and so forth. we want to see that mental health proposal which has been promised and has not yet appeared. it was promised for this year. let us have it please. that is an important step. lastly, this week we have the very first world diabetes day – the un has supported this, as have member states, the council and the parliament. let us have a bit of support from the commission on progress on that as they see the symbol that we are going to erect in the courtyard of this parliament tomorrow. let that be a reminder that we want some action to support the many families, and children in particular, who suffer from that debilitating disease.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i am very pleased to see that climate change remains one of the key priorities of the commission for the coming year. here we have an awful lot to deliver and i think we should focus on that delivery. i understand why commissioner dimas is delaying the publication of the ets and the other parts of the energy package until the new year, but i hope that does not mean that we are losing our resolve on climate change. there is a certain amount of scepticism in washington and elsewhere about how serious the european union is about climate change. it would be a real shame at a time when we are seeing changes in washington, on both sides, republican and democrat, where we are seeing changes in australia and a willingness to begin dialogue in china and india, if we were to stumble on our reform package on climate change. we had our summit in march but it is not enough to talk about targets. we have got to implement them. we cannot just ‘talk the talk’ on climate change; we have to ‘walk the walk’ on climate change. you, as the commission, cannot do that alone. you need the governments of europe to back you, and there will be a tough debate on burden-sharing in the new year. i hope this parliament will be involved in that debate, not just watching on the sidelines, and we look forward to seeing how we can be involved. but you also need the support of this house, and i say to the colleagues opposite and to the liberals: last month, on cars, you let us down on climate change because you watered down the commission proposals. there will be another test later this morning on aviation emissions and i hope that we will have a strong package. finally, mr barroso mentioned the committee of wise men or wise people, which mr sarkozy wants to set up. why cannot these wise people – yes i agree they should not be looking at institutional reform – why cannot they look at delivery, that we actually deliver what europe promises, and then we will begin to make the reconnection with the citizens that is so often talked about.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome very much the emphasis given in the 2008 work programme to the importance of a sustainable european energy policy. president barroso spoke out about the greening of the transport sector and, of course, that is vital. however, to my mind, the really shocking statistic is that in europe we use 40% of our energy in buildings – in heating, cooling and lighting – even though we have the technology to design and engineer our buildings to have virtually no energy requirements at all. therefore, i want to make a plea to the commission to be radical in its review of the energy performance of buildings directive next year – point 2(c) of the strategic initiatives. two things are needed. firstly, the minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings should be tightened. we need to move very quickly to a passive house or ‘zero carbon’ standard, with no net energy requirement. thousands of passive houses are now being built in europe but, unfortunately, only in a few countries and regions. secondly and most importantly, we need to get rid of the 1 000 m2 threshold and bring all buildings with a heating or cooling requirement within the scope of the directive. that would mean all buildings undergoing major renovation would be brought up to high energy standards. we have to look at the energy wasted in existing buildings and not just at new buildings, because 75% of the buildings which exist today will still be standing in 2050. meps have been discussing the commission’s action plan on energy efficiency in the committee on industry, research and energy, and it seems to me that there is the political will in parliament for a radical revision of the energy performance of buildings directive. i hope we can count on the commission to come forward with some strong proposals next year so that we can stop this completely unnecessary wasting of energy in our buildings.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s work programme and i look forward with keen interest to hearing how the eu is going to meet its extremely ambitious greenhouse gas emission and energy targets. i was recently in washington having meetings with the members of the congress. they are fascinated to hear about our emissions trading system and are talking about cap and trade but they are rather incredulous about how ambitious our targets are. i am also looking forward with keen interest to hearing how we are going to further develop the common research area. as president barroso is not here, i will forbear from commenting on the european institute of technology and move on swiftly to mention the small business act, the commission communication for small businesses, because there are high expectations in the small business community of this proposal. but i am bound to say that in my member state it may cause some confusion since a non-legislative action described as an act is possibly something of an oxymoron in uk terms. nevertheless, the small business sector is vitally important for our economy, for innovation and flexibility, for creating jobs, and it is to be supported. but we do have this habit at european level of being strong on rhetoric and weak on actions in support of small business.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, one point i wanted to make was very similar to what mr fava has just said about the absence of any major emphasis on the need for an eu policy on legal migration. we have had the proposals from commissioner frattini – and all credit to him – but we need great pressure to be put on member states to respond to those proposals because the challenge of getting a comprehensive and well managed legal migration system for the eu should be up there with the challenge of climate change. it links into so many other issues, economic and social. we should be having a summit of prime ministers to look at not only eu competence but also exchanges of best practice on management of migration as well as integration. i must confess i have my doubts about the emphasis that is put by the commission on the benefits of circular migration. i wonder whether that is going to come unstuck in the same way that our experience with gastarbeiter did many years ago. i am not sure that it is going to work out. human beings do not necessarily leave when they envisaged that they would leave. my last point is to raise data protection concerns about the envisaged entry-exit scheme and the electronic travel authorisation. i do not know what electronic travel authorisation will add to the visa information system, and i look forward to hearing a great deal more from commissioner frattini about these schemes.
mr president, at the risk of upsetting commissioner dimas again, i will repeat some of the words i said last night. only legislate, commission, please, where it is needed in the new work programme. enforce the regulations that we already have in place and enforce them right across the european union. do not bring in policies which actually discriminate against industry, business, opportunities within the european union. commissioner barroso mentioned something very close to my heart on the committee on international trade, and that is trade defence instruments. use them where it is necessary to protect the health and safety of consumers in the european union but do not use them as a protectionist measure. we live in, as he quite rightly said, a global economy, and i look forward to seeing that. with regard to commissioner mandelson, i wish him well in the wto doha agreement and i hope that we can move agriculture forward with the us and the european union to ensure we get a settlement, building on things like euromed, which are very important to the european union. we have agreements with morocco and we must look at these sort of situations. the us has just put in a free trade agreement on that. finally on epas: just over a month ago, trade commissioner peter mandelson was standing strong on his commitment to conclude epa negotiations by december. let us hope that he has relaxed his position and will move forward on that.
i thank colleagues for their contributions to the debate, the college of commissioners for their presence and especially mrs wallström for her charm and her courage. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the december part-session. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – mr nassauer’s speech verged on equating the volume of legislation with the amount of bureaucracy. this is, to put it mildly, simplistic. european legislation that creates a single set of common rules for the common market – instead of 27 contradictory and divergent rules – makes life easier for businesses and cuts bureaucracy. legislation which protects public health or the environment may cost money in the short run but saves far more in the long run. of course we all want to avoid unnecessary red rape and bureaucracy, but to give the impression that all legislation is unwelcome because it inevitably causes bureaucracy is ridiculous.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report. i support the use of interactive digital tv technology to benefit european citizens in a range of ways. the report emphasises the importance of the switchover from analogue, which is on track in the uk but lagging in some other eu member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal from the commission for a regulation to establish a community framework for the collection management and use of data in the fisheries sector and support for scientific advice regarding the common fisheries policy. it is an uncontroversial report that should allow better operation of the cfp over time.
in writing. it is only right that small groups do not have disproportional influence in this parliament. while i respect the right to ensure that diversity of views is respected in debate, this should not extend to the administration of the house and other technical matters. thus i welcome this reduction in representation by the non-attached on the conference of presidents where until now a handful of members had a higher level of representation than political groups with more than 200 members.
in writing. i voted against the jordan cizelj report on the euratom supply agency. i consider that the agency should be independent of euratom as the roles of promoting nuclear energy and controlling it should not in effect be joined. the nuclear industry does not offer the solution for europe’s energy needs. europe must strive to make more of our renewable energy potential and work to phase out the need for nuclear.
in writing. ukip approves of greater investment in and participation in sport. however, we cannot accept that physical education be made compulsory for all and the uk parental opt out abolished by the eu, given that many groups have religious or cultural objections to sport, and also that some disabled children may not be physically able to take part in certain sports even when they would wish to do so. obligatory pe is an issue for head teachers and boards of governors, not for the eu. in any case the eu has no competence on sport. ukip welcomes commendation of the hard work of volunteers in sport but believes that a spirit of friendly competition means this must be done at national and not eu level.
in writing. i wholeheartedly give my backing to the schmitt report on the role of sport in education. the encouragement of sports participation amongst our young people is vital in a number of areas; sporting activities promote not only the obvious health benefits amongst the population but also contribute to social inclusion objectives, a sense of community and national and european cohesion. my own country, scotland, has one of the worst health records in europe. however recent scottish sporting successes, including glasgow’s success in securing the 2014 commonwealth games, have captured the imagination of the population. it is to be hoped that these successes can be channelled in a positive way and that scotland can lose its “sick man” tag and become an example in europe of how sport can be used for the maximum benefit of the community.
in writing. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, encouraging all eu member states to require physical education to be included for all school-aged children. encouraging physical activity among young people will help deal with problems of obesity and general lack of fitness, along with all the secondary health problems that arise over time from these consequences of a lack of activity.
in writing. as a former teacher of physical education, i will be supporting the schmitt report because it addresses not only the need to ensure that physical education is taught in schools but that member states must also ensure adequate training for physical education teachers. all too often, particularly at primary school level, the pe lesson is conducted by a non-pe specialist normally in a hall that doubles up as a dining room or a theatre, particularly at christmas time. if we are to be serious about combating child obesity, if we are serious about improving child health and if we are serious about getting children away from video games and into sport, we must provide better facilities for physical education in all schools and ensure that the teachers have the specialist knowledge to teach the subject. for far too long pe has been a minor subject, particularly in primary schools, and lessons are often cancelled at the first whiff of rain. this has led to a generation of children being created that is the most unfit generation ever produced. health and physical education is as important as maths and sciences, yet you would not know that if you entered many of our schools.
in writing. i voted for this first reading report on commission plans to protect soil. i am in favour of the need to protect soil, but am yet to be convinced that a directive is the right approach, or whether a less prescriptive approach would be more suitable.
in writing. the eplp voted against paragraphs 8 and 10 of the prodi report on thematic strategy for soil protection as it has not been proven that there is a need for a framework directive for soil protection. as it currently stands the measures proposed in these paragraphs would be disproportionate as there is not enough flexibility or subsidiarity.
in writing. i voted in favour of this first reading report on the commission’s proposal to include the aviation sector in the eu emissions trading scheme, also backing the amendments to reduce authorised emissions from the proposed 100% level to 90%. i also supported socialist group amendments to include all flights originating and terminating in the eu, but unfortunately other parties did not back these and they did not pass. aviation is an important and fast-growing source of ghg emissions, and taking action to curb those emissions is vital in the fight against climate change.
in writing. i have voted in favour of the liese report, even though i have doubts about its practicality and its implementation. i agree that aviation has to be included in any emissions trading schemes, but a balance has to be found between environmental considerations and those of the aviation industry. in addition, this scheme as proposed is highly contentious outside the european union with many states threatening court action against the eu, including the usa, india and china because they believe any scheme involving aviation must be agreed internationally before implementation. it is right that aviation should be involved in ets. it is wrong to single out aviation as a major co2 creator without also addressing the maritime industry and the biggest co2 creator in transport, road transportation. some of the suggestions outlined by the committee on the environment in its report were frankly extreme. parliament has taken a more pragmatic and balanced view. but still i see problems ahead for this proposal in the months to come, not least on the international stage and not least that we have exempted private jets.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – thank you, mr president. mr magalhães stated that the euromed meeting on 18 and 19 november would be the first meeting by euromed on immigration. illegal immigration to europe is indeed a massive problem for many european countries, posing particular problems for those countries with coastlines within easy reach of north africa. great britain has its particular problems with immigration, too. illegal – and legal – immigration to britain is now uncontrolled, unlimited and indiscriminate, in the true meaning of that word. britain has a massive problem with illegal immigration, but currently the biggest problem is caused by legal immigration from the european union. the rate of immigration to britain, as far as anybody can tell, is running at about 500 000-600 000 people per annum, with a net change to population of about 200 000 people per annum, adding one million people to the population every five years. britain is one of the most densely populated countries in the world, and england, taken on its own, is right at the top of the league of densely populated countries. immigration to britain on this level is simply unsustainable. it is putting unbearable strains on infrastructure and public services. it would be possible to control immigration into britain by taking some very basic measures. none of these measures would be possible while we are a member of the eu: they would all be illegal. the solution for britain, if it wants to control its immigration, is simply to leave the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, my group supports this proposal, and thinks this is a practical set of adjustments to the current legislation and that it is actually useful that european political parties should have the ability to do research and so on through their foundations and have the flexibility to carry money over from one year to the next and so on. there was the issue of the legal base: parliament and the commission agreed, and the council disagreed with us on that. but it is the substance that is more important than the legal base, and i dare even say that it is better to have legal certainty than to face a challenge later on this matter in the courts. so we are happy with that and we are happy to seek first-reading agreements with the council by postponing the vote. let me just add though that, for the reasons the rapporteur himself said, the european political parties are important because they express the political choices we face as a european union. the media too often focuses only on the council, and especially the european council, as if it is some sort of gladiatorial combat between countries. did britain win today or did the french? did the germans make a deal with the italians? yet when those very same subjects come to this parliament, you rarely see all the members from one country voting one way and all the members of another country voting another way, because we are making political choices – policy choices. do we want higher environmental standards but at greater cost, or not? there will be people in every country on both sides of the argument, and the same with most of the choices we face. political groups and political parties highlight the fact that it is political, policy choices we are making in our union, not a combat between one national viewpoint and another national viewpoint. that is why they need to be strengthened in their work; that will help citizens have a grasp for the sort of issues that we are dealing with; that will make our union work better.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i should like to thank the council presidency for the progress that it is making in approaching an agreement at first reading. i trust that the court of auditors will be able to stir itself with unexpected alacrity to bring its opinion before us. fertile political thought is a necessary ingredient of a pluralistic, lively parliamentary democracy and this will be encouraged and stimulated by the measure before us to establish party-political foundations. it will encourage party politics to grow at european level and nascent european political parties to grow in self-confidence and to get stuck into campaigns in a purposeful way. i have to say that we have been pirouetting around the problem of political parties for several years because, of course, they are prospective rivals and competitors for the old national political parties, which, i sometimes think, will be the final citadel defended in the interests of national sovereignty. so we should proceed fast to develop platforms at european level to support and promote post-national politics which truly reflect the paradigms of the 21st century.
madam president, let us be clear about mr leinen’s report: it is not about democracy, it is about propaganda, it is about using the taxes collected from our reluctant citizens to drive forward a european project about which they are increasingly uneasy. the danes voted against maastricht, the irish voted against nice, the swedes against the euro, the french and dutch against the constitution, yet their taxes will be used to promote integration. today in this chamber, president sarkozy spoke of european democracy, but across our diverse member states the common public opinion necessary for representative democracy does not exist. democracy at european level is a fraud and a delusion. by reserving funding for pan-european parties, mr leinen explicitly excludes euro-sceptic parties which do not seek pan-european status, so taxpayers’ money will be channelled to integrationist parties and denied to others. in a europe that talks about democracy, this is a crime against the people.
the next item is question time (b6-0382/2007) we are already starting late so i will ask colleagues to keep to the time and i would invite you as we did on the previous occasion to please come to the front of the hemicycle. please come to the front. nobody is going to tell you off for sitting in other people’s seats! it will make it much more friendly and more interactive if you all come to the front. the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
question no 36 by manuel medina ortega (h-0778/07) subject: effects of the value of the euro on competitive tourism given that the increased value of the euro has led to a loss of competitiveness for europe's tourist industry, what measures is the commission planning to strengthen the industry and uphold europe's standing as a tourist destination?
as the authors are not present, questions 37, 38 and 39 lapse. part two
question no 40 by bart staes (h-0786/07) subject: european development days - maumoon abdul gayoom the opening of the european development days (edd) between 7 and 9 november will be attended by mr maumoon abdul gayoom, president of the maldives. this has been made possible by the fact that the maldives are seriously threatened by climate change and because 'climate change and development' is the main theme of the edd. on the other hand, this involves the eu's legitimising this president and his regime. international human rights organisations severely criticise president gayoom because of the autocratic nature of his regime and the many serious human rights violations by his country's police and security services. why has the commission invited mr maumoon abdul gayoom (after all, there are other countries which are threatened by climate change but where more democratic governments are in power), and what is the commission's attitude towards his regime in the maldives?
question no 41 by gay mitchell (h-0793/07) subject: slums and development a staggering 900 million people, one in every six people, live in an urban slum. these people have little or no legal right to their homes, have little or no access to electricity, water or sanitation, and access to other social services is very poor. what specific measures is the commission taking in this area, and is there a specific strategy to tackle this important development issue?
unfortunately mr mitchell is not in the chamber ...
i would like first of all to thank the commissioner and remark that, although his answer was long, it is not the longest we have received in question time, but it has the merit of having provoked several requests for supplementary questions. what i would like to do is put the three that first came to my attention together, so that would be ms mcguinness, mr mitchell, who asked the original question, and ms budreikaitė.
i am very sorry. we started late, so one could have expected that you would have been here earlier.
i am very sorry, if members are not in the chamber we are obliged to skip their questions. we will follow the order i suggested.
madam president, i understand mr mitchell’s frustration, which is the frustration of many meps – that, every month, commission question time is squeezed and begins late. i had a question on darfur, and i want to ask you whether, question time having started late, at 18.15, five questions went by in ten minutes, because i arrived in the chamber just after 18.20. if that is the case, is it fair to members to create a situation where they are running around doing meetings and trying to predict when their question will be raised? can something be done about it, particularly the late starting of commission question time almost every month in strasbourg?
thank you for your comments, mr moraes. i and my fellow vice-presidents who have responsibility for question time are always open to ways in which we can improve it and do better, hence the step that we have taken already of inviting members to come to the front of the chamber. with regard to the timing today, it is unfortunate, but i can only say, in respect of your position and that of mr mitchell, mr staes was here in the room and was able to have his question dealt with although his question followed yours. it is unfortunate, but all i can say to you at the moment is that you have to watch the screens. we could not sit here doing nothing, so we have to proceed to the next question and deal with the business as best we can.
question no 42 by jim higgins (h-0800/07) subject: increasing road safety in developing countries could the commission outline the steps it is currently taking to ensure that road safety is increased and improved in developing countries and comment on the performance of those measures implemented to date?
like the commissioner, i had understood that the question was to do with road safety in developing countries, not eu member states. has the commissioner travelled by road in south asia where, with deep respect, his reference to the highway code could, in many cases, be considered laughable, because traffic goes very quickly on either side of the road and in both directions at the same time, which obviously leads to road accidents, certainly when there are lorries going around and people driving in rickshaws as well? in his discussions with the countries of south asia, has the commissioner suggested that the european union – with all the advice that, perhaps, mr higgins could give from the republic of ireland and other countries – could assist them in improving their road safety, improving, perhaps, a reference to a highway code that does not exist, and help to reduce mortality on their roads?
question no 47 by marco cappato (h-0783/07) subject: dialogue for reconciliation in cyprus what is the commission's assessment of the meeting that took place on 5 september 2007 between the president of the republic of cyprus, tassos papadopoulos, and the leader of the turkish cypriot community, mehmet ali talat? would it not agree that the search for an agreed solution on a bi-communal basis should be moved a qualitative step forward by asking nicosia to continue the dialogue at the highest political level (at least ministerial level) on the basis of a clearly defined timetable, rather than handing it over to committees of experts? what has happened to the rest of the funding announced for the northern part of the island, given that only 10% has actually been disbursed to date?
just before we go to the next question, i would repeat to members both the invitation and encouragement to please come to the front of the chamber if you are participating in question time. it really does make it a little more dynamic.
question no 48 by bernd posselt (h-0789/07) subject: eu administration in kosovo what is the commission's assessment of the progress made in preparing for the setting-up of an eu administration in kosovo next year and the likelihood of the status issue being clarified by 10 december 2007?
question no 49 by michl ebner (h-0805/07) subject: accession negotiations with croatia in june 2004, croatia was finally accorded the status of an official candidate for membership by the eu. october 2005 marked the official start of accession negotiations, during the course of which the first 12 chapters have so far been opened. croatia itself aspires to complete the negotiations by 2008/2009. in view of the positive developments in croatia in the field of the market economy, the rule of law, democracy and human rights this would seem a perfectly feasible deadline. however, it is uncertain whether the eu can keep to this date, since objections have been raised to the effect that enlargement cannot take place without an institutional reform of the eu. what, in the commission’s estimation, is the status of the accession negotiations? what support is the commission giving (or planning to give) to ensure that croatia can join the eu as soon as possible?
question no 56 by marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou (h-0782/07) subject: living conditions and education of illegal child immigrants illegal immigrants to the eu include a number of minors whose future residence and education on european territory are uncertain and are not based on common standards. within the framework of the future strategy for children's rights, is it possible to outline a common european policy to ensure decent living conditions and education for minors who arrive in the eu illegally, based on compliance with the international commitments of member states?
question no 57 by sarah ludford (h-0791/07) subject: entry-exit scheme in recent correspondence commissioner frattini has said that any proposal for an entry-exit system would be made only in early 2008 once the results of two current studies were available. however, it has subsequently been reported in the press that commissioner frattini at the informal meeting of eu justice and interior ministers in early october called for a register of biometric identifiers of all non-eu citizens entering and leaving. how has commissioner frattini been able to announce already an eu entry-exit scheme when there has been no communication from the commission yet giving an assessment of the feasibility studies?
well, i also look forward to such a strategic discussion and i did not have any problems with the first part of your response, commissioner. but what worries me is that, at that informal jha council in october, you were reported as calling for this entry-exit register which you said was extremely necessary, but you had not done a feasibility study. the 2005 communication said that it would be a huge organisational step and might therefore be risky and costly to implement. are you not pre-empting it? the second part of your response was a sales pitch for entry-exit. we have no idea what the implications are going to be – including for data protection as well as organisation – are they proportional? yet you are already saying that it is extremely necessary. this seems to me to be putting the cart before the horse, as we say.
question no 58 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0802/07) subject: provisions in the new treaty on the supply of personal data of eu citizens to third countries elmar brok, mep, a member of the european parliament's delegation to the intergovernmental conference, has complained that members of the council have agreed to include a provision in the new treaty permitting the personal data of eu citizens to be passed on to third countries. this arrangement is being pushed through without citizens being notified in advance and without their involvement. moreover, it fails to take into account the european parliament's opposition to such a move, as set out in its resolution p6_ta(2007)0347 on the pnr agreement with the united states of america. does the commission agree to the inclusion of this provision in the new treaty? if not, how will it express its opposition?
commissioner frattini, you are of course well aware that members of this parliament, and especially members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, are getting more, not less, unhappy about developments in data transfer without adequate data protection and without any codecision or real parliamentary scrutiny, including by national parliaments. also, i am afraid there is a little bit of loss of trust, because we are feeling that the commission and member states are almost benefiting from loose and lax agreements reached on the transatlantic dimension. what can you do to reassure us that we are not on a slippery slope, where data transferred for security purposes is really just going to be used for profiling and never really going to benefit from privacy guarantees?
we have now gone over by more than the amount of time we were late by when we started. questions which have not been answered for lack of time will receive written answers (see annex). that concludes question time.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have just heard the language of the past: die rede der vergangenheit! others know, often better than we, that we already live in a global society. india, china and brazil have caught the wave of opportunity and they are riding it high, while too much of europe fears the wave crashing over it. when president sarkozy addressed us yesterday, he spoke of ‘different possible futures for the europe of tomorrow’, putting our policies for competition, energy and enlargement up for debate. mr barroso’s expression during much of that speech told us more than all of his words this morning. if europe sits on its hands because national leaders – citing citizens’ concerns – contest the eu’s agenda, we will miss the chance to shape globalisation in europe’s collective interests. it is not citizens we need to convince, it is member states. survey after survey has shown that most of our citizens see the european union, not national government, as best placed to manage globalisation. look how the earthquake of globalisation is shaking europe’s body politic. some on the right are retreating, in the face of global challenges, from conservatism into nationalism, or from christian democracy into christian autocracy. the fissure of globalisation runs right through the epp. on the left, kurt beck and his friends are holding back much needed reforms. franz müntefering saw that and that is why he has voted with his feet. and yet the visionaries see the need for reform and they have written it into the new european socialist manifesto, adopted appropriately in oporto. the division in our politics is no longer between left and right over economic policy but between those who respond to global challenges by pulling up the drawbridge and those who – with liberal democrats – advocate the open society. mr barroso, you have majority support in this house for your commission’s approach to globalisation. but it is not a majority based on one political family. indeed, it may even prise apart and refashion europe’s political families. globalisation will increasingly shape our politics. not globalisation in the rather narrow economic sense defined in this communication – although a stable euro and effective competition rules and market regulation are in all of our interests – but in its wider, more holistic sense, encompassing world population growth and migration; climate change and energy security; and internationally organised crime linked to terrorism. is that not the validation we need to ‘act on a continental scale’, as this document urges, to utilise our ‘critical mass’ to ‘enable europeans to shape globalisation’, as the commission’s communication demands? if so, mr barroso, where are your policies? your timetable? your comprehensive approach? we were promised action: instead we are proffered a paper which is rich in rhetoric but rather poor in proposals. this cannot be the final word in europe’s response to globalisation. i await your single market review, to see how you will drive growth and jobs in difficult terrain, and your legal migration policy, hoping it encompasses the concerns of the countries of origin. my colleagues and i await urgent action on cutting energy use and fighting cross-border crime. we believe, too, that social health and economic vitality are both important. if we are creating a global market, we need a new global social contract, reconciling the competing demands of flexibility and fairness because, as martin luther king taught us, ‘injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere’. so the union must bring together the lisbon agenda with its focus on competitiveness, the cardiff agenda with its focus on social rights, and the gothenburg agenda with its focus on the environment. the world needs a strong, united union to counter injustice, conflict and poverty wherever they are found because we are one of the few players capable of tackling global issues and, if we do not take the lead, nobody will. that means stopping the hypocrisy of trade tariffs and fashioning a fair deal for developing countries in doha; clinching a contract on carbon emissions in bali, using our collective influence to get america on board; and building an international approach to financial markets, focusing on regulatory cooperation, convergence of standards and equivalence of rules. resolving these challenges in fairness to everybody needs more, not less, globalisation. for we live in an interconnected world, a world that requires solidarity at global level as much as it requires solidarity between european citizens. and we must look forward, with victor hugo, to the day when the only battlefields are those of markets open for business and the human spirit open for ideas.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think that what we have seen in this particular communication is an absolute failure of imagination, given the seriousness of the situation that we face. we have in this no real definition of globalisation. it normally relates to the economic side – that is what i want to talk about. this paper talks about us facing a third industrial revolution. i think we need to learn some of the lessons from the past industrial revolutions. those that have not taken environmental costs fully into account; those that have not taken social costs fully into account. there is an assumption that low commodity costs are going to continue, often on the back of the world’s poorest countries; that we can trade in countries where we force open markets when social infrastructure and a sound public sector are not in place; that we need to beware the siren of reciprocity if it is not amongst equals. there are also instances where we have overestimated the role of the markets in delivering social goals, and there are issues surrounding economic consolidation, especially when this is based on a debt economy and speculation rather than on reality and thus becomes highly dangerous for economic stability. the new context that we face is not just about climate change. it is about peak oil and what that will do to developing countries’ opportunities; it is about meeting the millennium development goals. it is true we need to rebalance trade, the social dimension and the environmental dimension. the wto prioritises trade over production methods, over anything else that gives us the right to say that we have problems with the way in which goods are produced because this does not meet our standards. we chose not to write that into the rules. if we are looking at growth, we are still talking as if the quantity is what matters, not the quality and not what is actually growing within our societies. i welcome the commission’s conference on this next week, but this is work that should have been going on for years. what are we going to do with our agricultural sector? with our tourism sectors? with so many others in the face of climate change? we do not agree that we do not need to revisit the guidelines and to revise them. we think we do. if we are talking about training and education, the sustainable development strategy now demands that we look at that within the context of climate change and environmental progress. i have heard no real, serious link on that. there is no european strategy on that at all. if we are talking about a low-carbon economy, how are we going to deliver that? there is nothing within this paper to give us any great confidence on those issues. and we need to look at the social inclusion side again. the gender pay gap is still there. we still need a liveable wage, and flexicurity has to take into account financial security for individuals. we still need to integrate lisbon and gothenburg. that is the challenge. this document does not face up to it and i am not convinced parliament does either.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, yesterday we enjoyed a wonderfully clever speech by the french president. i listened intently to this articulate wee man. he stood foursquare for free trade. but, of course, if other countries were for protectionism, so was he. he stood foursquare for democracy: the people were entitled to have their views heard, but then, it would seem, ignored, as the people of france and holland have been ignored. he is, as he would have it, a european first, but a frenchman through and through, a frenchman first, but a european through and through. okay, with a bit of hungarian goulash thrown in. we need a european army, navy and air force to ensure our peaceful european values are spread far and wide, for we must never go to war again. we must build on our democratic institutions but not, it would seem, too much. the french cannot have another referendum, because that might lead to an english referendum, and of course we all know that the british would reject the new constitution – oh, sorry – ‘treaty’. we must, he suggested, examine ourselves more closely and make sure there is more motherhood, not just for women but for men; more apple pie, especially for the poor, whether they want it or not. to coin a phrase, an old english phrase – and i love to test the best interpreters in the world – it was all humbug!
mr president, i should like to thank the presidents of the council and the commission for their statements on this fundamental issue for the future of europe. to survive and prosper, europe needs to face up to the challenges of globalisation, and we must rise to these challenges and see the opportunities and not just the threats. fulfilling the lisbon agenda is central to europe’s future prosperity and we need to make sure that we finally secure a deal in the world trade talks. we need to reform the common agricultural policy and we must give a fair deal not only to our own farmers but to those in the developing world. we must push further and faster on the deregulation agenda, freeing business and industry to compete on competitive terms with china and india, and we must make real progress supporting chancellor merkel’s efforts to create a transatlantic common market. i welcome the president of the commission’s recent statement on globalisation, in which he said that the eu’s raison d’être for the 21st century is clear: to equip europe for a globalised world. and in order to do so, he said, we must invest in people, in growth, in jobs, in energy security, in fighting climate change and in giving consumers a fairer deal. he went on to say that protectionism cannot make europe wealthier; protectionism would impoverish, not protect, our citizens. this is a crucial statement and one that all european governments should heed now. of course, in financial services and accounting, european standards are fast becoming global standards and i am proud of that. the way forward in europe is radical reform of the european social model, increased flexibility in labour markets and further action to deregulate and reduce burdens on business. of course, we must also lead the way in tackling climate change, and i welcome parliament’s decision to include aviation emissions and the emissions trading scheme, another sign of our willingness to lead the global community. in the fight against poverty we must ensure that the programmes of the eu are credible, cost-effective and targeted. we need to enhance the trading opportunities for the developing world and make a real difference in africa. we should be proud of our achievements, but there are many opportunities still for us to seize.
mr president, for an increasing number of our constituents, globalisation means desolation, as factory after factory pulls out and moves east. just two weeks ago in limavady, in my constituency, seagate technology announced its closure with 960 job losses, leaving that small town reeling. it is not just the lure of cheap labour, but our crippling burden of regulation on european industry which is devastating our manufacturing. president sarkozy was right when he told us yesterday that the eu has the right to protect itself from such ravages; i wish it would. two immediate steps would help: a lowering of the threshold for the european globalisation adjustment fund. one thousand job losses in paris is bad, but in a small town like limavady it is catastrophic. so the threshold should be lower for smaller economies. secondly, the eu needs to loosen its state aid prohibitions so that things like modest industrial derating might help keep our manufacturing afloat. i would invite the commission on those two specifics to respond positively.
mr president, i would like to thank the commission and the council for their statements. i agree that there is potential for the eu to take a very positive role. but, to date, economic globalisation has led to the acceleration of environmental degradation, poor conditions for workers and growing social imbalances. on a local level it has come to mean job insecurity and, worse still, the loss of jobs in manufacturing and services, which i saw at first hand in my own community in wales, where i live, earlier this year with the closure of the burberry factory, which meant the loss of hundreds of jobs in a very poor area, a convergence area. companies are finding it easier to move around, seeking the cheapest labour and not worrying about the consequences of their actions, despite voluntary corporate social responsibility agreements which, like burberry’s, look wonderful on paper but mean very little in practice. the consequences are devastating for local communities and those local communities, as we have already heard, are the key to jobs and growth, the very purpose of the lisbon agenda. all of this leads to disillusionment with politics, proving that the market is stronger than democracy. the eu can help by making sure it improves labour and social standards across the world, including the cost of climate change in the market price to avoid environmental dumping. the effects of globalisation make social protection even more important for workers and for communities. i do agree that the way forward is to support small business and provide long-term sustainable jobs, high-quality jobs, and i do hope that the proposal for a small business act will help to achieve this in the long term.
madam president, i also believe our reaction to globalisation should not be based on fear but on a sense of opportunity mixed with intelligent adaptation. as the resolution says, the eu as a global player is one of the major beneficiaries of an open world economy. you would not always realise that from the volume of european anti-globalisation rhetoric. i agree with mr czarnecki that liberalism has spread across the world. but, unlike him, i am glad about that. the eu can only achieve its objective by being active and organised on the world stage, and this is particularly true of migration. i am grateful to see that a paragraph i drafted for the alde group has survived almost unscathed into the final resolution. i really do think that migration deserves to be a priority on the eu agenda, on a par with climate change and energy. we see the pressure from outside; we see the social tensions and, indeed, the racism from inside the eu. but still there is no comprehensive eu policy on legal as well as illegal immigration, and on integration. finally, let us not forget the potential of global communications and especially the internet to promote human rights. okay, maybe it is not as inevitable as we once thought – if you look, for instance, at the censorship being successfully practised by china – but, still, globalisation and the internet and other global communications are a very potent force for good. that is also part of globalisation.
madam president, it is very difficult for commissioner verheugen to listen to everything that is said in this chamber, but of course some very poignant points have been raised and i hope he takes them into account. i listened to what president barroso had to say. i thought he put a point across that i totally believe in, that globalisation is here to benefit the european union. mr toussas has just talked very glibly about the working class, but if we do not have globalisation, if we do not have industry and business in the european union, there will be no jobs for people. what actually worried me considerably was what mr sarkozy said yesterday. are we going to have an old france, a protectionist france, or are we going to have a france which is going to embrace a new generation? i am reminded of when the chinese went to sign the declaration to join the wto in the united states. president clinton had managed to stop them from signing it for 10 years. when president bush signed it, his advisers looked back and said, ‘my god, china has signed it! what have we done?’ in actual fact, what they have done is that they have brought into play some great opportunities for us. we must look upon china and india as an opportunity. we must not bring up the drawbridges, man the battlements, close the doors, because europe has a huge opportunity here and we must take it. mr caspary quite rightly talked about employment in his constituency. i know that it is very difficult to keep employment, but if we do not allow ourselves to be part of a global market, then we will get nowhere. i do believe that we have a huge opportunity if we can embrace it. we must look at such things as free trade agreements. morocco, at the moment, has signed a free trade agreement with the united states. we must look at that. finally, i would ask the commission to allow business and industry to get on with doing what they are supposed to do. be very careful about the legislation you put in place which damages european opportunities.
madam president, globalisation is blamed for everything, from population explosion to climate change to exploitation. but these are just products of mankind; so is competition. darwin called it natural selection. european citizens are fearful. we must educate them, true, but not by stating that we need a policy at eu level to face the challenge of a globalised economy. that makes me fearful, suggesting that we do not have a policy. the eu has unique power at supranational level to shape things and to challenge excesses. in july, in the financial times it said: ‘brussels is the regulatory capital of the world and cannot be ignored from washington to tokyo’. so, if we have got it, let us use it, but judiciously. what is the purpose of a competitiveness agenda if it is not to maintain our position in the world? what is the purpose of a single market if we fail to get it properly completed? stop the faint-hearted excuses. the eu is absolutely about meeting the challenges. we just need to get on with it before natural selection catches up.
madam president, hopefully, and i say hopefully, the lisbon treaty is going to represent the closing of a chapter in the history of the european union, the chapter of the growth of the eu, the consolidation and peace and stability on the continent, the dismantling of trade and economic barriers between member states, and the institutional development which was needed to achieve those things. now, though, we need to open a new chapter, a chapter of looking outwards, of rising to the challenges of globalisation. we need a global europe which sets a completely new agenda for globalisation, resting on the principles of openness, fairness and the importance of cooperation between member states. we know what the challenges are – they have been well explored in this debate. climate change and migration are, in my view, the two biggest, but we need to maintain high growth and jobs. we need to have a modern effective social agenda. we need to deal with terrorism and crime and promoting security beyond our borders and dealing with poverty. and indeed, as ms bowles has said, we do have policies towards those. but let us be frank: progress has been slow, it has been uneven and it has not always been very effective. if we really are to deal with globalisation, we need a radical and fundamental shift, not only in our policies but in our entire thinking in the european union. we have to focus now simply on action and delivery. we have to ensure that member states fulfil their promises, because we have an eu framework. what we do not have are 27 member states that all do as they say they are going to do, and our focus must now be on delivering on promises and fulfilling all the potential that the eu has.
madam president, this has been a very wide-ranging debate and at the end i would like to bring it back to a focus on social policy as a productive factor. the launch of the integrated guideline package was supposed to lead to a balanced delivery of the economic, social and sustainability strands of the lisbon process but in practice, when it comes to the employment guidelines, it has been a case not of integration but of subordination. the employment guidelines have become virtually invisible, hiding the very wide variability in member state performance against the range of indicators and targets they are supposed to meet under the employment strategy on youth unemployment, integration of older workers – a range of factors. in some member states, spending on lifelong learning and active labour market measures has actually declined over the last five years – not improved but declined. that is disastrous for the lisbon process overall. the employment strategy therefore needs to be given much greater visibility in the next lisbon cycle. one other point – the joint resolution that we are debating here today in several places emphasises the need to deliver decent work and to focus on improving the quality of work. this focus is not helped by the commission’s concentration on the idea of employment security as opposed to job security, which is repeated in both the green paper on labour law and the communication on flexicurity. in our work on flexicurity in the committee on employment and social affairs we make clear that both employment security and job security are important. what a fast changing flexible firm needs – a firm changing its production line every six months, its it configuration every four months – is an adaptable, skilled, loyal and dedicated workforce, not a casualised and fragmented labour market. so we will do our best to help produce a good set of principles on flexicurity but they must then lead to an amendment to the guidelines. president barroso said earlier, ‘if it ain’t broke, don’t fix it’. well, it is broken and it needs fixing.
madam president, i congratulate the commission on an excellent paper and i would just like to highlight these four points. the first one is on the knowledge economy. i think the way this has been expressed in the paper, about the free movement of ideas and researchers being perhaps seen as ‘the fifth freedom’ of the eu, is a beautiful way of expressing it, and i would like to see that developed. in reaction to what mr hughes has just said, i think this point really reflects where we are, debating in the committee on employment and social affairs, that we want to move away from the idea of just simple job protection towards employment protection, by promoting employability and by strengthening skills; in that way, success for europe in the age of globalisation can mean success for individuals – success for people – which is what the eu should be very much more about. the second point concerns smes. there is a reference to a wide range of new proposals for the end of 2008. i welcome that, but there is a ‘but’: please let us not shift our focus towards new proposals for agreement tomorrow before we first focus on delivering against existing commitments for action today. here, particularly for mr verheugen, i would draw attention to this 25% reduction in simplification of existing eu legislation. let us please see some real delivery on this across the board, sooner rather than later, as this will particularly benefit smes. i would encourage, in this context, a wholesale review of the working time directive, where much more lateral thinking is required of us all – and i do mean of us all, including meps. thirdly, the single market: adding an external dimension is all very well, but let us get the internal dimension first, completing our own single market before we develop grand ambitions outside. i would say to mr schulz, as well as to mr hughes, i agree absolutely that this is not just for our economic progress but also because this will deliver social progress. finally, on a more personal point, the only thing i really stumble over in the document is the very first line of the front page, which says ‘communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions’. i recognise that the european economic and social committee and the committee of the regions exist – although i am never clear why – but please do not elevate them to the same level as the two codecision institutions.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details on the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
i have today received letters from ms daniela buruiană-aprodu and mr cristian stănescu announcing their decision to leave the its group. parliament takes note of this decision with effect from today, 14 november 2007. taken together with the announcements already made this week concerning three members leaving the group, i conclude that the number of members of the its group has now fallen below the minimum of 20 members required to form a political group laid down by rule 29(2). (loud applause) parliament therefore takes note of the fact that the its group no longer fulfils the conditions of the rules of procedure for the formation of a group. as a consequence, the group ceases to exist with effect from the moment of this announcement. (applause)
thank you, mr martin, i did not see it myself, but i take note of your point.
in writing. conservatives have supported the vakalis report but have grave reservations about paragraphs 16 and 17. we believe that both prevention and rapid reaction capabilities in relation to earthquakes should be concentrated on the resources of the member states and do not support ‘the establishment of a european civil protection force.’
in writing. i am in favour of this report on the regional impact of earthquakes. as a geologist and oceanographer – in fact my thesis was on the seismicity of the mid-atlantic ridge from 12°n to 20°s. i am all too well aware that the united kingdom is almost immune. according to records in the uk, only one person has died as the result of an earthquake and that was in the mid-seventeenth century. yet across europe the same is not true, with thousands killed, and massive devastation across the centuries from lisbon to sarajevo. part of my own constituency, gloucestershire, was devastated by floods in july that caused billions of euros of damage to road and rail, hospitals and schools, water treatment plants and power stations. we are likely to get assistance from the european solidarity fund. i hope it will not prove necessary, but if it does europe must prove willing to assist nations, regions and committee hit by earthquakes.
in writing. as a strong supporter of humanitarian aid projects when they are timely, well targeted and effectively resourced, i voted in favour of the report on humanitarian aid. however, i have serious objections to many of the formulations that are used. it is unfortunate that there are references to the so-called reform treaty – the revived eu constitution – to which i am fundamentally opposed. it is unrealistic to imagine that humanitarian aid can be free of all political considerations; the report itself is a very political document, advancing the eu agenda. in any case, priorities, scale of assistance, and delivery of aid in a way that avoids the clutches of abhorrent regimes are all political questions. apart from many other objections to eu involvement in military matters, it is a distraction from a clear focus on humanitarian aid. the eu is not a unique humanitarian actor. it should focus on adding value to the humanitarian efforts of our nations through improved coordination of effort in particular areas and in ensuring that there is proper control of its resources and evaluation of their impact.
in writing. with my fellow labour meps, i voted against this proposed directive. while we supported the general thematic strategy on soil protection yesterday, as it stands, the directive on soil protection is over-prescriptive. it does not take into account existing and well-functioning legislation that is already in place in the member states.
in writing. this is yet another example of the one-size-fits-all approach which gives the european union a bad name in our member states. with more than three-hundred types of soil in the european union, how can we expect to cover them all by means of a single directive? surely this is a prime example of an area in which we should allow member states to determine their own legislation on the basis of their own soil types. it is very disappointing that, with all the scientific expertise at its disposal, the european commission has produced a legislative proposal which fails to take account of simple scientific facts. if the united kingdom suffers floods and greece suffers a heatwave during the course of one summer, it is obvious that the impact of those weather conditions on the soil in those member states will be entirely different. the only real consequence of this proposal will be to tie up the agriculture industry in yet more red tape and burden it with yet more expense. it is frustrating that, yet again, the agricultural community will have to pay for the pursuit of useless uniformity.
in writing. i am afraid i will be voting against this report because it is my view that a framework on the protection of soil is not needed. i voted for rejection initially because i believe this issue should be left to member states under the subsidiarity principle. what we have before us is a piece of legislation that is disproportionate, has little flexibility and merely repeats what is already covered in other directives. it tries to cover desertification on the one hand and cleaning up soil on the other — a wide remit indeed — but ends up being a report that covers neither adequately; but creates problems in how it will be implemented. in my own region where local authorities are trying to recycle soil, this proposal would make that so difficult that the viability of the whole operation is put in question. sorry to say, i think this is a poor and unnecessary piece of legislation, and i will vote against in the hope that i can save farmers, horticulturalists and local authorities from a bureaucratic nightmare.
in writing. conservatives voted in favour of this report but have regrets over the approach the council has taken during the parliamentary process. in early stages of drafting the report, a great deal of undue pressure was placed upon parliament by the then presidency of the council. this we find unacceptable, given parliament’s role as scrutineer of legislation.
in writing. the justification for this legislation is to protect the eu financial system from money laundering and terrorist financing. the ukip would always seek to cooperate internationally on these matters, however, the eu has no agreed competence on defence. moreover as an organisation that has been unable to get its own accounts signed off for thirteen years the eu commission cannot be considered to have any expertise whatsoever on finance or to be a fit body to put forward legislation on control of the financial system.
in writing. i supported this resolution with a degree of reluctance. russia and its leader vladimir putin have proved difficult of late in a number of areas, especially energy. nevertheless, the one issue on which i have some sympathy is their response to the highly contentious us plan to deploy theatre missile defence in the eu supposedly to defend against a scarcely credible threat from iranian nuclear-tipped icbms, but which equally poses threats to russia’s own defence. i therefore regret that amendment no 3, which i voted for, by the green group, was defeated by 242 to 362.
in writing. the european parliamentary labour party supports this resolution and its aim to build a strategic cooperation with russia based on common values, democracy and respect for human rights. in particular we support calls for a positive russian contribution to finding a sustainable political solution on the issue of kosovo. we voted in favour of amendment 3, as there are concerns which should be raised regarding any further build-up of conventional or unconventional weapons on the european continent, and we support continuing bilateral discussions between the us and russia on this issue.
in writing. i voted for the joint motions for a resolution arising out of the eu-russia summit, where parliament, among other things, called on the russian government to create, together with the european union, the necessary conditions for a rapid start to the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and russia. other issues covered included russia’s pending accession to the wto, human rights issues in russia, the climate for investment and ongoing concerns over the upholding of the conventional forces europe treaty.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i would like to thank the council and the commission, especially the council for its tough declaration on 8 november. i do not think that anyone would doubt that the situation in pakistan is very serious and very volatile. it is perhaps hard to register that everything that has been going on has really only taken place in the last ten days or so, since the state of emergency was declared. several members here met general musharraf some months ago, both in brussels and later in islamabad, and we received a number of assurances. he was adamant that he would follow the constitution and that free and fair elections would take place. i welcome his announcement that elections can take place by 9 january, but i share the commissioner’s apprehension and beg the question: in the light of what has gone on and the present emergency measures – the suspension of certain television channels and other human rights – are free and fair elections possible in less than eight weeks’ time? whilst i refer to the commissioner, i would also like to draw her attention in particular to our paragraph 14 of this resolution where we invite the commission to consider expanding aid to pakistan for education, poverty reduction, healthcare and relief work, but channelling the funds through secular ngos rather than directly to the government under these circumstances. we have no issue with the pakistan people. we recognise that pakistan is a key ally of the west, as mr salafranca sánchez-neyra said. we recognise the important role they played in many, many areas and that they have also been victims of terrorism. but i do not think, colleagues, that means we should stand aside and ignore what is happening at the moment. my group also wanted to have a paragraph in about possible sanctions, inviting the council ... (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly) i thought i was speaking such clear english that they would manage perfectly but i will, of course, slow down. i am also inviting the council to consider targeted sanctions, which is what the socialist group would have liked to have done but we did not get any support for it: travel bans perhaps, the freezing of assets. but we hope all of this will not be necessary and we hope that pakistan can still come back from the brink, that the state of emergency can be withdrawn and that general musharraf will step down as chief of army. mr president, my apologies for going too quickly.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, pakistan is a vital ally for the european union. today we find that pakistan finds itself at a crossroads. but i believe that it wants to engage with us and we have re-established a recent history of engagement with pakistan, which i understand is progressing reasonably successfully. but we must not forget the historical context in which we find ourselves today. i know pakistan reasonably well and by far the biggest issue and problem facing pakistan internally today is the terrorist threat coming from across the border in afghanistan. afghanistan is a common global problem. we in the west turned our backs on afghanistan some years ago. it is important that we do not turn our back on pakistan today. pakistan has been at the forefront of this battle, sometimes carrying a very heavy burden on behalf of the international community, a heavy burden sometimes carried on weak shoulders, a burden the people of pakistan have carried, absorbing so much violence and carnage which would otherwise have made its way into other parts of the world. the solution is not to isolate liberals and liberal values and to take away those liberal values from the people of pakistan. today i see that the commission has again called for the release of prisoners who are currently being held and i support that call. this includes people like the chief justice of pakistan, and indeed mr aitzaz ahsan, who is a leading lawyer in pakistan. the president of pakistan must – and these must be our baselines – end the state of emergency immediately. he must reinstate the constitution. he must reinstate the supreme court and he must move towards free and fair elections. president musharraf should recognise that we have not turned our back on pakistan. we remain engaged. it is now time for him to roll back from his current position, to acknowledge our core values, to make them shared values. in a distinct way, despite the desperate situation, he has a unique opportunity even now to deliver power to the people of pakistan, the true custodians of that power.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, like many others, i think we are here with a deep sense of regret and a certain feeling of anger that, once again, we are having to discuss the situation in pakistan. i would agree with virtually everything that has been said this afternoon. we are in a serious situation, not least because this is a nuclear state and the risk of a failed nuclear state is one that should make us all feel very nervous indeed. people are right to say that the power to step back from the brink here is basically with president musharraf and his supporters. this idea that there is a state of emergency but the elections should go ahead undisturbed does not hold water. it is certainly not an undisturbed election if the leaders of the other political parties are under house arrest or in jail. if there is no freedom of the press, if people cannot even get satellite dishes because imports of those have now been banned, then there are no circumstances for free and fair elections whatsoever. it is clear that we want the release of all those political prisoners, that we want freedom of the press and we want the judiciary to be able to operate freely because, if all those with stated commitments to democracy are locked up, who else is left out on the streets? the message that is being sent by the actions of the government in pakistan at the moment is therefore extremely worrying for a state that says it is committed to democracy. i would agree with what mr robert evans has said. we do need to have certain sanctions ready for use if the deadline of 22 november set by the commonwealth and the un is not observed and we do not see president musharraf stand down as military leader or, indeed, an end to the state of emergency. we should be supporting amnesty international’s day of action tomorrow to remember the political prisoners held in pakistan, and we certainly need to be looking at aid and the way in which it is spent. pakistan has had usd 10 billion dollars of aid from the usa in about the last five or six years, mostly for anti-terrorism measures, and not for the maintenance and development of education.
mr president, the last couple of weeks have been a rollercoaster of shocking events in this turbulent and troubled country. the imposition of martial law in the guise of emergency rule is an underhand attempt to destabilise pakistan for the personal ambition of one man. president musharraf justifies his actions as an attempt to stop the country from committing suicide, but it is not that the country is committing suicide but that the actions and deeds of a dictator are killing the country. it is totally unacceptable that the leader of the opposition, benazir bhutto, has been put under house arrest and banned from political activity and that other activists and the media and independent judiciary have all been muzzled. while recognising that there are real threats from extremists within the country, i believe that general musharraf’s actions will only embolden the extremists instead of eradicating them and will serve only to weaken the democratic and moderate voices within the country. some say that pakistan is on the brink of collapse. we must prevent this by giving a strong response. moderate people in pakistan are feeling frustrated and angry and they are disappointed by europe’s soft response. therefore i call upon commissioner ferrero-waldner and the council to give an unequivocal, clear message to the president about the severe consequences if the suppression of the constitution, of politicians, of the media and of the judiciary does not end immediately.
in writing. – pakistan is a vital ally in the war on terror. as a result it has faced enormous internal pressure and threatened instability. president musharaff has responded to this siuation by declaring a state of emergency. he argues that an abnormal situation requires abnormal actions. his response is in part understandable but quite wrong. the way to fight anti-democratic forces is with democracy. he should end the state of emergency, announce a date for elections and a date on which he will give up his uniform. he should then call for an open and wideranging debate about the future of pakistan. i am convinced such a debate would reveal that the vast majority of pakistanis reject extremism and fundamentalism and wish to live in a country at peace with itself, at peace with it's neighbours and on good terms with the west.
madam president, one of the most effective strategies the eu can employ in bali is to lead by example. the first piece of new european climate legislation to be decided upon since the march council is the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading system. so the outcome of that is vitally important, not only in itself but for the signal that it sends to others at the bali conference about whether the eu is genuinely serious about its climate change commitments. so far, frankly, the outlook is pretty grim. the commission’s initial proposal was hopelessly weak and the fact that the council has been unable to reach a common mandate for a first reading agreement sends extremely negative messages. i therefore urge both the council and the commission to raise their game substantially and quickly. success in bali also depends critically on whether equity is at the heart of any new agreement. that is why proposals must be based on convergence towards equal per capita emission rights, such as the approach known as ‘contraction and convergence’. i urge the council and commission to follow that approach. finally, i would caution against an over-reliance on carbon-offsetting mechanisms. as a colleague of mine memorably pointed out, carbon offsets are about as useful as an anti-smoking campaign that pays someone else to stop smoking in the developing world while you continue cheerfully puffing away. it is irresponsible and critically ineffective.
rapporteur. – madam president, i too would like to join in thanking both mr beglitis, who is now a greek mp in his national parliament, and his successor mr obiols i germà for excellent cross-party cooperation and eventual consensus as co-rapporteurs of this key report. it is self-evident that everybody needs good neighbours. in an uncertain and ever-changing world, the eu needs to develop good and enhanced relationships with countries on its periphery that are based on security, stability and mutual benefit to all. so far the european neighbourhood policy (enp) is proving to be a valuable tool in this process, in creating a ring of friends aimed at improved trade, travel and political cooperation, particularly against terrorism and people trafficking. but, of course, of utmost importance are the shared values and in particular reinforcing democracy, the rule of law and human rights as our main priority. enp policy was conceived somewhat hastily, i have to say to the commission. some would argue that a blanket arrangement for all southern euromed and eastern european countries and the south caucasus neighbouring countries cannot be an enduring foreign policy idea for the european union. nevertheless, our report fully accepts that for the foreseeable future this unitary policy is here to stay and parliament will engage with it as it is. nevertheless, clearly moldova is not the same as morocco. countries in the southern dimension are not european and therefore have no real prospects of eu membership. in the east, which is my side of the report, however, there are at least two countries in my view – ukraine and moldova – that are allowed to accede under article 49 of the maastricht treaty, as they are undeniably european in nature. certainly, matters in terms of visa facilitation, readmission and, post-ukraine’s wto accession – which we hope will happen next year – a deep eu free trade agreement, these are all progressing well with a country such as ukraine, and i hope these will be extended to moldova and eventually to other south caucasus countries in due course. in my view the eventual enp aim to the east must be visa-free travel. the enp will help generally to consolidate these countries’ wishes to anchor themselves firmly within eu institutions. in moldova’s case, the enp may prove to be a significant boost to the resolution of the transnistria frozen conflicts. nevertheless, these eastern european enp countries need to know for sure, by the eu council and commission, that membership is ultimately available to them and that the enp is not just a delaying tactic to frustrate these countries’ membership ambitions. the report also recognises the suffering of the people of belarus and the bravery of the country’s democratic forces. we need to be ready, as and when the lukashenko regime crumbles, to welcome belarus back into the enp and grant it, too, a european perspective. the report proposes the development of a joint parliamentary assembly for the european parliament and eastern enp countries, provisionally dubbed ‘euro-nest’. it draws on the success of similar structures, such as the euromed parliamentary assembly, which is already up and running and basically is the southern dimension of parliamentary cooperation for the enp, as well as the barcelona process, and the more famous acp assembly. i am personally convinced that euro-nest would strengthen democratic institutions in eastern enp countries. it would hasten an end to the isolation of belarus and enable, for instance, azerbaijani and armenian parliamentarians to discuss the potentially explosive nagorno-karabakh frozen conflict, where a war could once again break out, given the amount of petrodollars flowing into the azerbaijani government’s treasuries and the rhetoric on both sides of the divide. the eu has become far too dependent as well on russian energy resources, so we all agree that we must develop alternative sources. that is why our report, when it went through the committee on foreign affairs, proposed the idea of bringing kazakhstan potentially one day as a possibility into the enp. however, now, i am afraid to say, this is sadly no longer supported by the major political groups, so it may well be taken out of the report tomorrow at the vote. we would have had access through this process to kazakhstan’s vast natural resources, while the eu would help further reforms in this vast – geographically speaking – secular country of strategic importance. if it is indeed pulled closer one day to russia and china, which i am sure is the intent of those two powers, we will be ruing the day that we took such a precipitous decision to keep kazakhstan at arm’s length.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, this report clearly demonstrates how the europhile political elite in this place are completely out of touch with reality and the wishes of their constituents. the report asks for the processing of visas to be urgently improved so that travel from some non-eu states can be made easier and less burdensome. this is not what most londoners want. they do not want to make it easier for people to come to britain: they want to make it harder. they want to be more selective of the people we invite to our country, not to extend the current open-door policy. the report anticipates ukrainian entry to the eu. ukraine has a population of 46 million and, as eu citizens, they would all have the right to enter britain. the majority of my constituents do not want millions more people given the right of entry to britain. they do not want any more indiscriminate immigration from eastern europe. we already have enough immigrants driving around london without tax and insurance; we have enough criminals, drug dealers, fraudsters, people traffickers and sex slaves. another crackpot idea in this report is the call for a eu neighbourhood parliamentary assembly – another talking shop of politicians, out of touch with reality, dreaming up more ways of wasting taxpayers’ money. these politicians would, of course, need to be handsomely rewarded for their efforts. it should surprise no one that one of the authors of this report is a member of the british conservative party, a party that pretends to be eurosceptic at home, but is enthusiastically europhile here. no wonder that in london mr tannock is known as the member for eastern europe. i totally oppose these policies; they damage the interests of my constituents. that is why i will be re-elected in london in 2009, and mr tannock may not be.
that was a comprehensive statement of the theoretical position on burden-sharing. we know what the instruments are, but i have to ask you candidly, when it comes to malta, lampedusa and the canaries, what is the implementation? do you feel that, over the last six months, council members, including those in western europe, have taken seriously their burden-sharing commitment regarding these places, which are in an emergency situation? some of our colleagues here know it and see it every day. nobody is identifying portugal as being in any way apathetic on this issue, but what about the council actively carrying out burden-sharing? is it being implemented? please give us your candid response.
i thank the presidency very much for that, and i will read the documents mentioned. however, the problem is that the situation regarding tigers is a crisis. there are probably only 3000 left in the wild. they could be extinct in the wild by 2020. the main problem is poaching, which is driven by the lucrative illegal trade in tiger skins and parts, said to stretch to eastern europe. the indian forestry authorities say they are unable to cope with poaching gangs, due to chronic underfunding. can the eu help with that? have we got specific projects? a chinese official said recently that it is very hard to resist pressures to open the tiger trade. surely the key is education on the one hand, but also giving local people an economic stake in maintaining higher levels. what is the eu actually doing in terms of specific projects?
mr president-in-office, you have made it very clear that you and the council as a whole are committed to the protection and conservation of the tiger. the indian prime minister equally has, in a number of statements, made his passionate commitment to defending the tiger clear. as we are engaged in a bilateral negotiation with india to create a new bilateral treaty between the eu and india, do you think this is a subject we could include in that treaty and that we could go beyond our current commitments under cites to help with education, training, conservation – the sort of measures that baroness ludford was talking about?
the next item is the report by zbigniew zaleski, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and economic relations with ukraine (2007/2022(ini) (a6-0396/2007).
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr zaleski very warmly on his report. i think it is a significantly different kind of report to recent ones which have been voted on in the committee on international trade. compared to the reports on bilateral trade relations of one or two years ago, like the eu-russia or eu-mercosur reports, it shows a lot more cautiousness with regard to the benefits of unfettered free trade. and i think it indicates a growing consensus across the party spectrum on the importance of actively engaging in a political search for how best to submit trade rules to the principles of sustainable development. in that respect, i think we can be pleased that we have made the most of the various delays at the wto doha round, which, in a way, have allowed us to conduct this search for more fair and sustainable trade rules in our bilateral trade relations. i therefore thank the rapporteur for actively seizing this opportunity. among the many positive signals that this report gives to dg trade for their negotiations with ukraine on a free trade agreement, i would like to highlight four points in particular. in paragraph 10, i think the report rightly warns against relying exclusively on export orientation and export diversification in order to make trade sustainable. instead, it focuses on the importance of developing the domestic market as a necessary basis for any economically sustainable development. in paragraph 13, the report suggests the need to strike a balance with regard to investors’ rights. in other words, it insists on a legal framework in ukraine which fosters best practice in corporate social responsibility. in paragraph 23, the report suggests a significant shift in our foreign energy supply policy by asking for multilateral rules regarding access to energy resources and by warning not to support the race for the best conditions for unilateral energy access. finally, in paragraph 36 the report recognises that agriculture is a special activity that cannot be treated in the same way as industrial goods and therefore justifies different tariff rules. i very much hope that those and other points remain in the final text so that my group can very happily vote in favour of the report. but i do just want to add that i think it is a pity to hear that dg trade has been objecting to three key amendments proposed by the greens and supported by the rapporteur, which call on dg trade to start negotiations for a bilateral fta only after the parliament of ukraine has given its assent to the wto accession negotiations. while dg trade is certainly right that this might delay the bilateral fta, we have to insist as parliamentarians, as we do ourselves before the conclusion of such ftas on the part of the european union, for the voice of the people to be taken into account on such an important matter and that includes, of course, the people of ukraine. we would therefore especially like to thank mr zaleski for not giving in to that pressure and, once again, for an excellent report.
i am sure you are right, mr caspary, that the debate should be replied to by the appropriate commissioner, but in practical terms that is not always possible. i know that mr borg is an extremely experienced commissioner and politician who will no doubt convey your message to the relevant people. i should point out that the debate on globalisation earlier today was replied to by mr barroso, so it is a mix-and-match commission, but a very competent one.
thank you, commissioner, and thank you to all speakers in this important debate on a particularly relevant topic. the debate is closed;the vote will take place on thursday. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by iles braghetto, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a multi-annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean (com(2007)0169 – c6-0110/2007 – 2007/0058(cns)) (a6-0408/2007).
mr president, can i, first of all, also add my congratulations to the rapporteur on this report. to achieve recovery in any recovery plan is always difficult. this is no different from many of the others establishing a multiannual recovery plan, but this time it is for bluefin tuna. i, like everyone else, sincerely hope that the programme will be successful. i have only had one experience and that was with the cod recovery plan in the irish sea. during those years the fishermen in that area did not receive any compensation for not being allowed to fish during that period. i believe two wrongs never make a right: if you have conservation then i believe you must also be prepared to pay compensation – i do not believe there is any alternative. it is fine to ask for sacrifice but sacrifice also comes at a price. i recognise that this report is extremely sensitive for fishermen who come from the mediterranean and those who fish in the atlantic. so, from an economic and social perspective, it is going to be extremely difficult for them. in such circumstances, this will also be a very painful regulation for the fishermen on the ground in this region. however, the preservation and the protection of species of bluefin tuna are paramount.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, information on changes in job vacancies to identify labour shortages sounds fine. but surely not just to compile statistics? it must be to enable employers to fill vacancies and for workers to find jobs, both as quickly as possible, hence quarterly. currently, national statistics are compiled by member states themselves and the commission seems to favour making use of that to set up a common framework under a single european union regulation, option c. so the ec craze to harmonise converts a simple system into a bureaucratic and time-consuming one. the real purpose is centralised control. will we soon see a requirement for employers and jobseekers to consult an eu bureau? down the road, does it lead to job direction? it certainly leads to a planned european economy, spelling the end of the dream of an increasingly prosperous europe of full employment and bustling innovation. in a globalised marketplace, the only way to stay competitive is to stay loose, ready to fill the gap, ready to exploit an opening, ready for anything. columns of stats on reams of paper or locked on a hard drive do not do that – it is the man or women on the ground suddenly finding the chance and striking quick, before the other fellow. if he wants second place, get employers to browse the stats. while they are doing that, streetwise operators elsewhere are jumping in first thing and cornering the market. worse, amendment no 8 – if adopted – allows the collating agency to reject as inappropriate national figures and substitute figures of their own. thus they can create a false image to suit the ec centralised controllers, misleading the people. so much for informing the citizen! finally, amendment no 3 encourages the exclusion of agriculture, fishing and forestry from these considerations. now, why should that be? i do not know much about forestry, but the uk figures for farming and fishing are horrendous. since 1973, when we joined under the cap, more british farmers have left the land and more have committed suicide than in any other comparable period in our history. our fishing fleets, down to about a quarter of 1973 size, are testimony to the devastation caused by the rotten cfp. no wonder some people want to keep these figures out of pan-eu stats; no need to alarm the citizens is there?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, it is always very useful to be able to debate such an important issue in front of a heaving chamber of colleagues who are agog to hear what parliament has to say on this very important matter. i am also very grateful to the commissioner for having laid down the ground rules and his views on how we tackle this issue. fragility is a condition that has many, many parents. the first of course is the process of decolonisation when the colonial powers drew arbitrary lines on maps, which cut across all sorts of internal stable civil society functions and split countries into two or three or four, irrespective of their tribes or religious factions and so on. that induced a certain amount of instability. then there is a natural form of instability that fragile nations now experience: countries which are prone to floods; small island states that are open to only a single economy product. there are countries which are geographically unable to sustain themselves because of the way god has blessed them with very few attributes, countries which have desertification, starting to produce mass migrations of people. there are 26 so-called fragile states in the world as we speak and the most vulnerable people in the world are facing catastrophic consequences, not through their own fault in some cases, but sometimes through bad governance, sometimes through internal conflict, sometimes through civil wars, sometimes through genocidal dictators as we found, not many years ago, in sierra leone and liberia. now you can change a fragile state from being a fragile state to a post-fragile sustainable country, as we see happening in front of our eyes in sierra leone. but this requires effort; it requires commitment; it requires a long-term commitment, as the commissioner said, to that country’s economic growth. it requires a commitment of nation-building, an expression which i use advisedly in this chamber because the concept of nation-building is something that my country, the united kingdom, has long experience of, as have france and spain and some other european countries. but it is wholly and utterly away from the knowledge of other emerging superpowers who have not, to put it bluntly, a clue how to punch their way out of a paper bag in terms of nation-building. we need to be able to connect ourselves with the body of historic knowledge that is reposited in the consciousness of european nations, to help other nations who are taking a lead around the world in the process of nation-building. had we done that, and had prime minister blair done that, i think the situation in iraq, for example, would have been completely different. is iraq a fragile state? yes it is, because it is unstable; the governance is not secure; there are insecurity problems. there are other countries in africa which are very fragile – the sudan, somalia, small islands – as i said earlier all these require coming together with a body of knowledge that we already have and therefore i am very pleased indeed to be opening this debate this morning.
rapporteur. – madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs. that a report of this scale has received no plenary amendments shows this is truly a report from the committee on employment and social affairs, and one we can all be proud of. i would also like to thank the commission for its close cooperation and the portuguese presidency for making social policy a priority for its presidency. we face a huge challenge in europe. that challenge is one of fairness. it is about lost potential, the inability to live a life free from the charity of others, and a life free from discrimination, poverty and social exclusion. our objective is clear: we want to expand opportunities so that nobody, whatever their background or circumstances, is left behind. the vision of europe must be freedom and opportunity for all, increasing opportunities and incentives to work, whilst strengthening the safety net for those who are unable to work. in 2007 the facts are chilling: 72 million european citizens continue to live in poverty; 8 % of all people in the european union now suffer from in-work poverty. those are truly shocking statistics. but what do they actually mean? they mean that one in six citizens is now living below the poverty line – one in six! many people would not believe that could be possible in 2007. fifty years after the treaty of rome, after 50 years of economic growth, 10 % of people belong to households where nobody has a job! by any measure, poverty remains one of the greatest social problems challenging europe, and reducing social exclusion must be at the heart of our policies. in some areas we are succeeding, but we must be frank: in the majority we are not. the gap between the rich and the poor in many eu member states is increasing. the elimination of income-related poverty must remain a priority for member states but, for the one in six who live in financial poverty, there are many more who are excluded from society for other reasons. we have to recognise that for many families – for many individuals even – there are problems more complicated than simply low income. barriers to opportunity are complex. more than anything else, early intervention is crucial. prevention, of course, is better than cure. in the uk, we know that the daughter of a teenage mother is three times as likely to become a teenage mother herself; we know that sons with a convicted father are over four times more at risk of being convicted of a crime than those without a convicted father. yet, in many areas, there is no need to reinvent the wheel. we must look at how other eu countries deal with these issues and learn from them. we must share best practice more effectively. finland, for instance, has introduced a holistic sustainable approach that has been incredibly effective in reducing the number of people who are homeless. denmark, meanwhile, is implementing new policies that improve the quality of life of long-term rough-sleepers, rather than having the sole aim of integrating those individuals into mainstream society. in belgium, people who have experienced poverty are working with social workers to help them better understand the needs of poor people. it is not always unemployment that causes poverty: in-work poverty is a problem as well. that is why i have called for an exchange of best practice on the provision of a decent working minimum wage throughout the member states. at least five eu member states do not even have one. equally, we must push all member states to adopt a minimum living income for all. member states must do more to prevent exploitation of vulnerable workers as well; to make sure that disabled and older people have a way into employment; to prevent trafficking; to safeguard the rights of asylum-seekers; to ensure equal access to healthcare and community services for all; to destigmatise people with mental health problems; and to promote a more constructive approach to drugs and alcohol. these are but a few of the issues this report has addressed. europe’s vision must be freedom and opportunity for all. that is why it is so important to look at setting up mechanisms at a european level so that the exchange of best practice becomes a reality.
mr president, i welcome this debate and report on social reality and, though we must of course welcome stocktaking and exchanges of best practice and the open method of coordination, the reality that we have to understand is that these devices have not yet stopped: women having 24 % less pay compared to men in germany; nearly one in three children living in poverty in poland; and wealth inequality in my own country, the united kingdom, at a 40-year high. i do think that european social funding and national programmes like the new deal in the uk are essential active labour market measures to tackle the real barriers which prevent groups in our society from progressing from worklessness to work and that work is still one of the best devices for us to combat poverty. i do thank commissioner špidla for putting a firm commitment in the commission’s work programme for new legislation on article 13 discrimination, which i have long discussed with him. i and this parliament look forward to working with him on the detail, not least in the presidency conference next week. but all of us – he and us together – must guard against this talk on stocktaking delaying the new social agenda in europe, or deregulation in one area actually leading to increases in inequality and injustice, not combating these evils. trade unionists, social ngos and of course disabled people, with whom i have worked for more than 20 years, are sceptical about what we are doing for social europe. we have to listen to their concerns and we have to respond to them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i wish to speak briefly on a point of order. independently of any party political debate, it is highly unwise of commissioners to get involved in party political matters in their own countries or in anybody else’s country. i think it is not unreasonable that this house should remind the commission of its duties in this regard. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as chairman of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, i led negotiations on this compromise text. i recognise that it is a sensitive issue and it is important that we all recognise the situation in pakistan. i think the whole house will want to send a strong, unified message to general musharraf. in the spirit of compromise and, i hope, to win the support of the whole house, i would like to propose the following oral amendment. in recital a, we refer to president musharraf ‘suspending the constitution and the rule of law and replacing them with martial law’. i would like to propose that we say that he has replaced them ‘by the state of emergency, de facto martial law’. then, in line with the suggestions made by other colleagues, in three other places, paragraphs 1, 10 and 11, we should replace ‘martial law’ with ‘the state of emergency’. i hope that will command the full support of the house.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to add for paragraph 19a the following wording: ‘underlines the need to involve and work together with the eea countries (iceland, norway, liechtenstein) and switzerland and to make full use of their experience of working with the european union’.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is just to confirm that the oral amendment is to delete the paragraph, so that should be taken first, before amendment 13, which means that the order of voting in the list needs to be changed.
rapporteur. – i propose that the word ‘women’ be changed to ‘individuals’ in paragraph 9.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a council regulation, which sets out a plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. under the proposal, fishers will be compensated for losses caused by closed seasons and quota reductions designed to allow the stock to recover. it recommends no derogations on seasons or minimum sizes. firm action is needed to make sure this fish stock is not depleted beyond repair.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues believe firmly in the member states of the european union pursuing policies that will enhance europe's competitive position in the globalised economy. we believe that europe should pursue the lisbon agenda vigorously by securing a deal in the world trade talks, pushing for further deregulation to free industry and business to compete in world markets, driving forward liberalisation in the internal market, implementing effectively the services directive and adhering to a sound competition policy. all of this must be underpinned by an unshakeable commitment to free trade and open markets. some of these elements are present in this motion and we welcome that. sadly, however, we believe that overall this joint motion is a huge missed opportunity. it should have set down the basic principles of an eu approach to globalisation as outlined above, but does not do so. there are elements in this motion which would take europe in a direction which would undermine the ability of the eu to compete successfully in the globalised economy.
in writing. i voted for this composite resolution which responded to the commission paper ‘the european interest: succeeding in the age of globalisation’. the resolution highlights a number of ways the union can take advantage of the opportunities globalisation allows: promoting a level playing field in competition and trade issues; improving eu policymaking so it is more joined up; and emphasising the need for the social dimension of the eu to be reinforced.
in writing. i welcome this resolution which draws attention to a series of interrelated issues – social rights through to financial regulations and the impact of how, as a result of expanding markets, the citizen can make sense of them. there is a balance to be had between liberal market conditions and issues of the needs of developing countries and it is absolutely necessary that we continue to debate this issue time and time again.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i recognise that the free movement of persons is a fundamental principle of the european union and one which must be respected and defended by all member states. furthermore, i think we are right to emphasise yet again that the eu was actually founded on measures to combat all forms of racism and xenophobia and indeed all forms of discrimination. equally, we should all in this house recognise that the roma people of europe are perhaps the most discriminated against, in some countries to totally unacceptable levels. we should understand that the assimilation, social integration and protection of the roma minority are objectives that this european union has yet to achieve. i think that this is an aim that we should all work for, along with the spirit of free movement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint resolution, which notes that the right of free movement is a fundamental one accorded to all eu citizens. member states have an obligation to look after the citizens of other member states living in their territories, and to ensure dignity and respect for the rights of all citizens of the union, no matter where they are living.
in writing. i agree the state of emergency declared (de facto martial law) should be ended and the state of civil law reimplemented with immediate effect and voted for this. for many of us who are observers of pakistani politics, it is depressing to see how badly affected the pakistani communities without our constituencies feel. a return to a democratic procedure is essential for credibility and the due process of pakistani politics.
in writing. i voted for this resolution from the climate change committee setting out the eu’s proposed negotiating position for the start of talks on the future of global climate change cooperation post-2012. it sets out a sound and progressive eu position to drive reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, taking note of the social impact of climate change, the eu’s desired intention to restrict global warming to 2°c or less, and the vital need for global buy-in to the system.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteurs on this issue which brings into focus the issues surrounding one of the most important problems of our time. caps on emissions with targets to reductions alongside alternative non-carbon based energy production are not accepted by some jurisdictions in the way the eu has agreed. but this conference can go a long way to unite and coordinate international action.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, for which i was the socialist group shadow. it notes the areas where the eu and ukraine should strengthen their relationship, discusses a free trade area with the ukraine, energy supplies, and relations with russia. i would like to see a stronger and deeper relationship between the eu and the ukraine, and trade and economic relations are a vital part of that.
in writing. i and my british conservative colleagues believe that social policy should be for member states to decide. we are anxious that european competences should not be extended in this sphere and that countries should not be pressured to adopt policies that could be unhelpful to their well-being in economic and social terms. we also believe that the 'european social model' is a barrier to economic and social development. there are issues in this report which we support, such as helping people out of poverty, assisting people back into work, support for disabled people and care for the elderly. policies in these and other social matters are best delivered by member states, taking account of national circumstances. we believe fundamentally that strong economies are the best route to obtaining social progress in societies.
author. – madam president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group to give our total support to this joint motion for a resolution on religious persecution. in one minute i can only touch on some elements of that resolution, and want to focus on the plight of the indigenous christian community in iraq, which at one time represented almost 10 % of the population. as someone who supports and is supported by the save the assyrians campaign, i have to say that this parliament is wont to rest on compromising consensus, which sometimes results in a levelling and a loss of meaning. that is true of this resolution. recital k deplores the situation of assyrian villages in turkish border areas. why? because the turkish government is actually shelling assyrian villages, claiming that they contain pkk militants, which seems to be an unlikely situation. in recital s it also refers to the situation in syria, to where tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of refugees have fled from jordan and iraq, but the border is now being closed. what is needed is help and assistance.
author. – madam president, for many generations people from somaliland and somalia have been coming to my constituency of london. they have a long tradition of working in the british merchant navy and sending monies back home. during my time in the british parliament, i was co-chairman of the british-somali all-party group. sometimes we took up problems and sometimes we took up personal issues and so forth. there were many of these. the somalis were wonderful people but were not served by particularly wonderful leaders. now things have gone from bad to worse. we now have a failed state. we have a situation where the country has some of the worst health statistics in the world. its people face violence every day and continually rising child and maternal mortality rates. they are being caught in the crossfire between ethiopian and government troops and the court militias. that is why this issue is on the agenda today. we can see how awful it is to live in somalia today. we can see the glaring necessity to get humanitarian aid there, and yet we cannot get it there. we can see the need for peacekeeping forces, and we welcome what the african union has promised, but we do not welcome what it is actually providing. it is nothing like what has been promised. at the moment all we have there is ugandan troops. until the promised figure of 8 000 troops is reached, the ethiopians will not leave. we have to see how we can get people talking – talking across borders, talking across some of our traditional prejudices – because, if people do not talk, there will be no stability, and if there is no stability then there is no future for that country. if there is no future, then more people will die. we will not be responsible, but we will have played no part in preventing that happening.
the situation in somalia is a reflection of a collapsed state and failed economy. there has been no functioning government since the overthrow of the said barre regime in 1991 which led to anarchy, inter-clan fighting and banditry. the recent fighting between the union of islamic courts and allied ethiopian and transitional federal government troops has displaced at least 100 000 people and famine threatens. yet the worsening security situation in mogadishu has prevented international ngos from coping with this unfolding humanitarian catastrophe. i welcome the efforts by the african union to assemble a peacekeeping force to help with national reconciliation, but only 20% of the promised 8 000 have actually been deployed. the african union must honour its commitments. however, the european union must in parallel increase its efforts to provide political, financial and logistic support. the international community, including the eu, must step up the provision of humanitarian aid to the displaced people. the ultimate solution, however, to restoring somalia to a functioning state requires the international somalia contact group, including the african union, the un, the eu and the us, to engage with actors inside somalia to support the implementation of the transitional federal charter and institutions.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, the pse group supports the readoption of the charter in its new form so that it can, through the reform treaty, be made binding on the european institutions. in so doing, we will be plugging a major gap. the european institutions as such are not bound as yet in a watertight way to respect the same rights that all our member states respect by virtue of their own constitutions or by virtue of their membership of the european convention on human rights and other international human rights instruments. this charter will be binding on the european institutions, and the whole field of community law must respect those rights, failing which european legislation can be struck down in the courts. it is surprising that some euro-sceptics who, one would think, would be pleased that the european institutions are obliged – are constrained – to act in this way, are opposing this charter – yet some of them are! it is perhaps unfortunate that, as a result of that, some member states have felt it necessary to clarify, in a protocol, how the charter interacts with their domestic law. that has, in turn, given rise to confusion. a colleague just now referred to that as an ‘opt-out’; it is, of course, not an opt-out. the charter remains binding on the european institutions and on the full field of community law, irrespective of how it affects domestic law in certain countries.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the solemn proclamation of the charter is the climax of our work, stretching back to 1999, aimed at creating a superior form of rights regime for the union. since the principal purpose of the charter is to protect citizens from abuse of the large powers now vested in the union, it is bizarre and regrettable that a member state should seek to escape its binding effect. it is my belief that the british protocol will be found to be juridically flawed, as well as a serious political mistake. the courts are bound to develop jurisprudence for the entire union system that is blind to nationality and faithful to the key principle of union law, which is that we draw our fundamental rights from the traditions that are common to all our member states, as opposed to being exclusive to one. in my view, and that of my group, the british opt-out is shameful and should fade to oblivion as quickly as possible.
madam president, we all support human rights, and i am growing a little tired of some people – particularly those from states where, historically speaking, human rights are something of a novelty – attacking the uk as some sort of pariah because of its ‘gesture’ opt-out under protocol 7. let me remind them that, as long ago as 1688, a bill of rights lay at the heart of the glorious revolution in the united kingdom. since then, the uk has been a beacon of liberty. so we need no finger-pointing lessons in human rights. people might be irked that we have spoilt the party by withholding, for now, from some of the trappings of eu super-statehood, but i would point out that it is our national and political right to do so. sadly, though, the opt-out will fade out as the european court of justice sets about its centralising agenda. ultimately, though, those people will get their way – should the uk be so foolish as to ratify this treaty despite the opposition of its people.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, i offer many congratulations to the rapporteur. i have four points, the first of which is to the commission. first in its green paper on labour law and now in its communication on flexicurity, it puts the emphasis on employment security rather than job security. we put the emphasis on both and that is because we recognise the needs of flexible firms. a flexible firm is one that needs to change a production line every six months or it configuration every four months and that needs an adaptable, well-qualified, loyal workforce – and you do not get that at all from a fragmented, segmented, casualised labour force. secondly, flexicurity needs a whole range of factors in place to work properly: a good, stable macroeconomic climate, investment in good, active labour market policies, well-developed social dialogue and high-quality policies for social protection. all these elements are important, and one thing is clear: they do not come cheap. the commission therefore has to recognise that flexicurity can only be put in place in some member states over a considerable period of time. thirdly, a balanced form of flexicurity needs to be built around the principles included in paragraph 15 of this report, and those principles need to be incorporated into an amended guideline package. they need to be given visibility and they need to be applied. otherwise, all of the good work included in this excellent report will have been for nothing. finally, both the council and the commission talk endlessly about the importance of flexicurity, but how can the council be taken seriously while the directive on temporary agency work remains blocked? how can the other institutions be taken seriously while exploitative forms of atypical work continue to proliferate in all of our member states? for too many millions of our workforce, flexicurity is all about flexibility and nothing to do with security. this report sets out ways in which that can change.
mr president, when member states ratify the reform treaty, as we hope and believe they will, we can look forward, at long last, to a revitalised european union – a union with the capacity to confront new challenges, with the humility to listen to its citizens and with the political will to act. ratification of the treaty cannot come a moment too soon, and my group thanks you, mr zapatero, for your efforts to speed up the process. my group sees no need for a group of wise people to ponder europe’s future. we have been there, done that, and even have the t-shirts to prove it. it was called ‘the period of reflection’ and it has come to an end. we are midway through the lisbon strategy and are only now making progress in growth and jobs. we are completing the single market, freeing up the potential of europe’s entrepreneurs. we are opening legal migration pathways to help both developing and developed economies. now is not the time to go back to a french drawing board, nor to follow a new british plan for a glorified free trade zone. those visions are just views from the margins, packaged as majority opinion. they are not where consensus lies. the majority of our citizens want the union to deliver a strong and growing economy. they want more eu involvement across the board, more involvement in combating terrorism, more cooperation in security and defence, and more action on the environment. then, and only then, can europe become a global player with the capacity to bring about lasting change. for how can we assure growth and jobs if europe retreats into protectionism? how can we combat climate change if we fail to act in concert? how can we spread peace, prosperity and justice in the world if europe bickers at the sidelines? that is why europe needs more politicians who are prepared to lead and to take a pan-european approach. mr zapatero, by uniting the 18 friends of the constitution in madrid, you proved that your vision of an open, integrated and competitive europe is one shared by many. it is that vision of europe that progressives from all parties in this house want to see thrive and expand. the alde group will work together with all those who share that vision and live up to it, whether on the right, on the left or in the centre, to ensure europe moves forward. what we will not tolerate are those who profess such a vision but fail to live up to it. prime minister, spain is often quite rightly praised for its social and economic transformation since joining the union. we need others to follow your example and pursue your ambition for a prosperous and open europe. (applause from the centre and left)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is a pleasure to see the prime minister here in brussels. he is an exemplar to other european heads of government, as a man who allowed his own people to decide whether they wished to have the constitution. for that he must be applauded. in the event, the people of spain voted overwhelmingly to support the plans. what i would like to know is why he has no intention of repeating the exercise. after all, he should be confident that he will get a similar result. is it because, as the prime minister has said, the reform treaty has not let a single substantial point of the constitutional treaty go? if so, it would stand to reason that he feels there is no need to ask his people the same question twice. or, is it the case, as presented to the british people, that the reform treaty is so different as to be an entirely separate thing altogether and too complicated for the people to understand? this, of course, is key to all our futures. either the political elite do not care what people want, as in the case of mr sarkozy and mr brown, or they feel that the people are too stupid to make any decision more important than what burger to buy at mcdonalds. it seems to me that the european union is rapidly becoming the world’s first post-democratic state. i can tell the prime minister this: if the european elite do not allow the people to speak, then, in the end, they will find other ways to make their voices heard.
mr president, i should like to thank the prime minister for his refreshing speech about political union. i would be grateful if he could find the time to travel to london to repeat it to gordon brown, his fellow social democrat prime minister, including the passages on the importance of the social dimension of the single market, and the importance of solidarity and the cohesion of the union faced with global challenges. in a fortnight the prime minister will be at the december european council meeting, discussing with president sarkozy the proposal to create a comité des sages. i would be grateful if he could tell president sarkozy that we ought not to upset the prospects for ratification of the treaty by reopening quarrels about procedures and the balance of power. please could he also tell him that it is not sensible to try to set the geographical frontiers of europe. the enlargement process is firmly established. europe will find its final shape when european countries as yet outside the union stop wanting to join us.
mr president, prime minister, the lisbon treaty, or rather the renamed constitution, is your view of europe’s future. this is the constitution that was decisively rejected by french and dutch voters in 2005, and which we are now seeking to force through without the consent of the people. across the 27 member states, opinion polls show that a majority of citizens want a referendum on the treaty. in the uk, 80% want a referendum, and two thirds would vote ‘no’, yet our government denies us the vote it solemnly pledged in its election manifesto. prime minister, you speak of a europe of democracy, but europe tramples on public opinion. the contempt we show for public opinion makes a mockery of our claim to be a ‘union of values’. over and over again my constituents tell me that they voted in 1975 for a free trade area, not a political union. it is time to dismantle the supranational political structures of the eu and return to the simple trading group which the british were promised in 1972.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, after seven years of negotiations, to say that we are not where we should be is perhaps an understatement. i am not sure that is correct to say that we have turned the corner. over the last few weeks some acp members have grown increasingly uneasy at the prospects of the limited – as the commissioner himself described it – gsp tariff regime that awaits them on 1 january should they not sign up to an epa agreement. the european commission claims to have been successful in its pursuit of an interim agreement with both individual states and subregional groups. as the commissioner said, it signed with the east african group yesterday, while the sadc signed last week – but without south africa and without namibia! what sort of economic agreement is it that misses countries out? it is reported that the commission is pushing west africa into an agreement without nigeria, which is one of the biggest countries in africa and has huge trade negotiations on the table with the european union. what is the long-term effect of these so-called framework agreements being signed? what about regional integration? as far as i can see these are breaking up the very regions described in my report that are what epas are all about. parliament’s resolution, prepared by a political group, sets out clearly the need to look forward to these now fast-moving negotiations. we may not like these arrangements, but the deadline is almost upon us and at the moment there are no alternatives. the kigali declaration was extremely heavy and critical. our resolution today in parliament is forward-looking, and i hope that we can look forward. as their name suggests, epas are a stepping stone to full and comprehensive trade relations between the eu and the acp. i am disappointed that the pse group has decided not to vote on them. i leave the commissioner with one final thought. in the united kingdom there is a saying which goes there are three great lies in the world: ‘the cheque is in the post’; ‘it was not my fault’; and ‘i am from the european union and i am here to help’.
mr president, my group recommends, as others have said, that, in the interests of credibility and authenticity, parliament establish a position which reflects what was unanimously agreed at our joint parliamentary assembly and was reflected by the kigali declaration. i believe that it is both a moderate and balanced document, which represents lengthy and successful negotiations between all our political groups – including, of course, mr sturdy’s political group, as he made reference to it – and with the acp. i have never encountered the kind of pressure that the acp has faced during these negotiations, especially as they are threatened with being severely disadvantaged by europe’s gsp tariff regime. it is that threat that has caused the emergence of new regional groupings, and we will possibly see bilateral agreements, for example with côte d’ivoire. these subgroupings which the commissioner has talked about are not something that we should see as a great achievement, but rather as something that threatens regional integration and is causing massive regional tensions amongst the acp. mauritius, seychelles, madagascar and comoros have agreed a subregional epa; west and central africa have put forward no market access offers and so face gsp. south africa and namibia, in the sadc, seem to have reached a red line they cannot cross and are being asked to include most-favoured-nation clauses which would oblige them to give the eu any market access they may concede in the future to other countries. the pacific, of course, is also not experiencing the best of negotiations and it is unlikely that any countries other than fiji and papua new guinea will sign or initial. intransigence and a lack of flexibility have clearly alienated the acp, especially when they realise that the commission is pushing for agreements from the acp that it has not sought from others, and colleagues from the committee on international trade will confirm this. both technically and politically, the ‘goods-only’ agreement has proved impossible, even for the caribbean. the capacity of the caribbean is greater than of any other region. only last week, they said that what was on offer was simply not tenable for them. surely, the commission must now step back, take the pressure off and reassess how it can ensure that we do not do the unthinkable and throw the non-ldcs to the wolves. the willingness of both sides to continue negotiation in good faith should be communicated to the wto in order to avoid the trade disruption which failure to sign an epa by the deadline would cause. the eu must make the required internal legislative changes to permit the continuation of the current trading arrangements. subsequently, the eu and the acp could work together to ensure that there is no opposition or challenge in the wto. we, as members of the european parliament, simply cannot return to our constituencies, wherever they are in europe, and say that vulnerable acp states are going to be treated in this way when they are already agreeing amongst themselves that they are being asked to agree economic partnerships that they see as being harmful to their economic interests.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the commission’s interoperability directive admits that it is about enabling ‘citizens of the union … to benefit to the full from the advantages deriving from the establishing of an area without … frontiers.’ this vision is a burden to the uk because many of the eu population buy only one-way tickets. i am pleased that isolated, narrow-gauged and preserved railways will be exempt. but what about secondary rail routes? presumably, all this extra paperwork allows luxembourgers, latvians and lithuanians to line up and run services from long eaton to letchworth. i know it is mainly about freight trains, ‘non-stop from lisbon to liverpool without changing locomotives or train crews’, says the briefing. some hope! what will the crew say about the working time directive? also, it will be stopped and checked for illegal immigrants west of folkestone. current portuguese locos would come off the track before the channel tunnel, as the rails in france are too narrow. this train will stop. the triumph of blind ideology over commonsense makes this place into the paper mill that the uk has come to despise. have a nice day, mr president, but first cure the tunnel vision.
mr president, i am speaking as a concerned mep, and not as committee chairwoman. i believe that, with this new law on weapons, we can demonstrate to our citizens that europe can act to tackle the problem of illegal guns. we have tough laws in britain, but without this eu law guns will continue to find their way onto the streets of cities like manchester and liverpool. colleagues, this is a 9 mm smith & wesson copy – a convertible weapon designed to fire blanks or cs gas pellets – which, when converted, fires live ammunition. do not panic – it is not loaded, it is convertible, not converted. a gun like this tragically killed a 12-year-old manchester girl, kamilah peniston. mothers against violence, mothers who have lost children to gun crime, ask me where these guns are coming from and what we are doing here to stop the illegal smuggling of these deadly weapons. greater manchester police tell me that 46% of all guns seized last year were converted weapons. converted weapons are now a cheap, popular choice for criminals, and they are a growing problem in europe – not just in the uk. therefore, i thank commissioner verheugen, ms kallenbach our rapporteur, mr alvaro and 25 of the member states for supporting my amendments to crack down and tighten controls on these convertible weapons. putting them under the same control system as real hand guns will make it much more difficult for criminal gangs to get their hands on them, and it will cut the smuggling of these weapons, which are banned in britain. the association of chief police officers in the uk fully supports this law and its requirements for convertible and deactivated weapons, for marking, for traceability and for controls on weapons’ sales by distance communication, including the internet. following the recent tragic shooting in finland and the attempted shooting at a school in germany, it is clear that we need stricter eu-wide standards of gun control. this is europe being pragmatic and taking practical action to protect our citizens. the tragic and senseless gun deaths of young people in my region – 15-year-old jessie james, 11-year-old rhys jones and 12-year-old kamilah peniston – are a deeply sensitive issue. their lives were taken from them. we, here in europe, owe it to them and their families to ensure that we take these guns off the streets.
mr president, with time to make only one point, i want to draw attention to the unequal way in which the european firearms pass operates in practice, particularly as it affects the hunting fraternity. if the owner of a registered weapon wishes to go hunting in most other eu countries, he simply produces his europass at his point of entry, but if he wants to enter the united kingdom he must supply his original europass in advance, and then wait six to eight weeks for it to be processed by the local police. thus he is without the pass for that time and cannot hunt in other third countries in the mean time. there is no need for such bureaucracy, which is severely damaging the promotion of hunting holidays in the united kingdom, including in my constituency of northern ireland. surely, even an advance photocopy of the europass would serve the same purpose. i trust, therefore, that, in due course, that anomaly will be addressed.
mr president, i have to answer that question because it just shows that mr rübig does not understand the legislation in front of him. because it is not defined as a firearm, you do not need a permit: anybody off the street can buy it – a criminal can buy it. so mr rübig should get his facts right before he intervenes. i rise, though, on a point of order, concerning an accusation made by ms goudin and i wish to correct the record of the minutes. no shadow has been excluded from this trialogue. the ind/dem group was invited, it appointed a rapporteur 18 months ago, it did not turn up to any meetings in committee or to any hearings, and it did not turn up to any trialogues. ms goudin knows very well that she was only appointed two weeks ago to take over from the shadow rapporteur, who did not turn up. i will defend the work of our rapporteur, shadows and the committee because we take our issues seriously, we do a serious job and the ind/dem group should take its work seriously as well.
madam president, i too wish to congratulate the rapporteur, mr costa, who is chairman of the committee on transport and tourism and who began by pointing out that the treaties allow policies that impact on tourism. it is therefore very appropriate that we are considering this issue. equally, as mr arnaoutakis reminded us a few moments ago, at least 12% of jobs in the eu depend on tourism. the eu is much more, nowadays, than just a common market for goods and capital. it is a common market for people. eu citizens, as we know, are travelling more than ever, not least as tourists. many, perhaps most, have very good experiences, but it is the minority – the few who have less happy experiences – that give some aspects of the tourism industry a poor name. i draw colleagues’ attention in particular to paragraphs 24 and 25, which call for a set of comprehensive guidelines for hotels that are sensitive to the needs of consumers. those guidelines should take into account the demands of families with children. not all hotels may be able to respond to these, but the industry really needs to make itself as family-friendly as possible. equally, a system of classification must take into account the needs of the elderly and the disabled. the transport committee has argued for this in the case of airlines, and it is right to require that hotels, too, should not discriminate against this social group. nor should they be able to make moral judgments on who qualifies as a couple, and who does not. the report is also right to point out, as it does in paragraph 48, which suggests a charter of rights and obligations for tourists, that tourists should themselves behave properly and respect hotels and the tourism business. this is a good report, it is a ‘good news’ story and it sends a message that parliament is acting sensibly in the interests of the consumers. i hope that message reaches the people of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 november 2007. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the report by kader arif, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a council decision providing community macro-financial assistance to lebanon (com(2007)0476 – c6-0290/2007 – 2007/0172(cns)) (a6-0452/2007).
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i welcome mr arif’s report. it is, as you would expect from mr arif, a well-argued and well-balanced report. however, i regret that, once again, the eu has to pick up the bill for israel’s propensity, in the middle east, to drop bombs first and worry about the consequences later. it is true that lebanon had financial difficulties before the conflict with israel in the summer of 2006, but that war was, perhaps, the straw that broke the camel’s back. lebanon, as mr arif has said, is now one of the most indebted countries in the world and, according to the undp, almost one in four lebanese lives in complete destitution. we have in lebanon, despite the problems that it faces, a government determined to bring about economic stability. in such a situation, it is right that we should be prepared to provide macro-financial assistance to assist in that recovery. mr arif is right to argue for safeguards to ensure that we have appropriate policies for tackling corruption and to make sure that funding is not abused. the right mechanism for doing that is through absolute transparency in the granting and spending of the money, proper monitoring of expenditure and ex-post evaluation of the measures taken. lebanon, as the commissioner has indicated, has become one of the eu’s partner countries in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the money from that policy will not be available until 2009 or 2010, but when that funding does become available i look forward to the eu assisting in the social and economic reforms in lebanon. in the interim, macro-financial assistance can make a big difference in helping lebanon tackle its indebtedness and help bring stability to its government. i therefore welcome it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 november 2007.
the next item is the report by alain lipietz, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on trade and climate change (2007/2003(ini)) (a6-0409/2007).
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, when it comes to climate change, trade is often seen as part of the problem, and it is true that some trade simply cannot be justified. sending scottish prawns to thailand to be peeled and returned to scotland is just nonsense, and a waste of energy. however, as mr lipietz’s well-argued report demonstrates, trade can also be part of the solution. i will take just three brief examples. firstly, the setting of high energy-efficiency standards in europe for household goods such as fridges, dishwashers, microwave ovens and so on can not only lead to a reduction in co2 emissions here, but also create the conditions for higher standards elsewhere. for example, a single factory in china produces 80% of the world’s microwave ovens. it is unlikely to want to produce to one standard for europe and another for elsewhere in the world, or even, for that matter, for its domestic market. a second example mentioned by the committee on industry is green goods or, to use their proper name, environmental goods and services. if we eliminate the tariffs on environmental goods and services, we can encourage trade in products that help third countries reduce their carbon footprint, such as the export of energy-efficient generators, wave technology and solar panels. let us again take the example of china. china is currently increasing its electricity-generating capacity every year by the equivalent of the uk’s total capacity. clearly, encouraging china to use the latest and most efficient technology could play an important part in allowing it to continue its growth without experiencing a proportionate increase in its carbon footprint. a third and final area would be to empower consumers to make informed choices on what products they buy, through the provision of clear information on the carbon footprint of each product. however, we must be careful to ensure that the information is properly calculated and presented. the ‘food miles’ labels currently used by some uk supermarkets are unsatisfactory and can give misleading information. flowers from kenya, for example, have a much smaller carbon footprint than flowers grown in hothouses in holland, but a glance at the label would lead one to a different conclusion.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, al gore claims that the debate on global warming is over and that it has been proved beyond doubt that human activity is responsible for this. i suggested recently in committee that the sun’s enormous influence on the earth’s climate over millions of years could not be ignored in this debate, and that the sequence of long ice ages, interspersed with short interglacial periods, was the most likely explanation. i received a very hostile reception. however, the chairman, mr markov, insisted that it was not appropriate to urge excision of a view that happened to conflict with current orthodoxy. let us remember that, when galileo declared in the 17th century that the earth revolved around the sun, he was threatened with torture by the catholic church for daring to contradict the accepted fact that the earth was at the centre of the universe. it took the church until 1992 to agree that galileo had been right. the only co2 at issue in the global warming debate is the trivial amount produced by burning fossil fuels. that comparatively small amount is the only modern and unusual addition to the vast quantities constantly being produced by all living things and all decaying organic matter, and through volcanic activity. before we risk ruining the world’s economies with carbon emission taxes and the like, please let us reopen the debate and make absolutely sure who is right.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 november 2007. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the commission statement on the referendum in venezuela.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
mr president, we have a baker’s dozen! we have now reached 13 years of unapproved accounts. it is not new auditors that are required, but a new payments system. it never ceases to amaze me how many politicians in this house, and the one in westminster, are prepared in good conscience not only to continue to tolerate the parlous state of the eu accounts, but to continue to increase the amount of taxpayers’ money given to the eu. as usual, we get the same round of excuses for incompetence and turning a blind eye, the principal one being to put the blame on the member states, but that just will not wash. how can the european commission hand over money to the member states without seeing paperwork confirming how and where it is spent? i cannot imagine any other professional organisation allowing this to happen, and for so long. if member states are not prepared to provide the necessary paperwork – i.e. receipts and cheques – then the financial tap should be turned off. in fact, the tap should be turned off at both ends. if the eu is not prepared to put its house in order, then the politicians at westminster should stop pouring taxpayers’ money into the eu bucket, which still seems to have more holes than a colander!
mr president, firstly i want to thank mr weber and the court of auditors for the report they have produced this year, which i have read with great interest. i have often made the point that it is regrettable that the auditors do not adequately name and shame in the areas where improvement is urgently needed. if they were to do that, it would give the members of this house the information they need to more accurately direct their efforts towards achieving a positive déclaration d’assurance, or ‘das’. despite this, it is perfectly clear that by far the largest single issue to be tackled is the fact that 80% or more of the transactions of the european union are carried out under joint management agreements within the member states, and usually by agencies. by this i do not mean the fact that 80% are carried out by agencies, but the fact that those agencies have a distinct lack of accountability for the monies which they handle on behalf of the european union. it is to the great credit of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control that they recognised this weakness and forced the inclusion of article 44 of the interinstitutional agreement in 2006. that article, i would remind you, made it a requirement for the member states to submit self-certification for the monies and transactions they have handled. that was a positive step, but, to date, little, if any, real progress has been made towards meeting that goal. it is therefore reasonable to assume that, even if progress is made right now, it will be something like 2012 before we have any chance of achieving a positive das, making it 18 years that we have failed to get a positive das. the council and the commission have to understand that this is not acceptable. they have to understand that this annual failure to achieve a positive das is extremely damaging to this house. the time is coming for the elected members of this house to exert more pressure on both the council and the commission to attach greater urgency to this essential task. i, for one, have never voted for discharge of the accounts. i will continue to refuse to do so until i see more urgency being attached by both the council and the commission.
mr president, mr rübig has accused me twice now of bringing a firearm into the chamber. i want to clarify that this was agreed to by the security services, and the presidency was aware of it. up until this vote it was not a firearm. now that the house has voted that it is a firearm, i am prepared to hand it over to the authorities!
mr president, very briefly, the ppe-de group has made paragraph 4 a fundamental issue in this report. we would have voted in favour of it, but not if they get a big consensus for the report. we are suggesting abstentions. i request that members of the pse group abstain on that paragraph.
in order to find a consensus, we are suggesting that where the text reads ‘it would be appropriate to revise the rules on trade defence measures’, the word ‘revise’ be deleted and replaced with the word ‘evaluate’.
in writing. i will be voting in favour of this report because at last it allows member states, and in particular the united kingdom, to carry on using imperial measurements. personally i prefer the metric system, but there are some areas where the very nature of the work being undertaken necessitates using imperial measurements. i do not refer to the selling of vegetables, but to work like the renovation of historic and heritage modes of transport, and in particular heritage railways. i would point out that in the uk not everybody sticks to imperial measurements. the great game of rugby league went metric years ago.
in writing. it is clear now that, despite the worst attempts of some to denigrate the european union on the basis of measurements, the eu is able to deal with issues in a practical manner. the use of imperial measurements alongside metric ones has been with uk citizens for some time. although schools now refer to a metric system and many have grown up with these measurements, the principle for many others to use imperial measurements remains. this is welcome and should calm many who were confused by previous press reports to the contrary.
in writing. lebanon is now one of the most indebted countries in the world and the granting by the eu of macroeconomic financial assistance is wholly justified. however, conditions must be put in place to ensure that eu finances are properly accounted for and fraud and mismanagement treated with zero tolerance. it is worth noting that, once again, it is the eu that is picking up the tab for israeli attacks on a neighbouring country.
in writing. i voted in favour of my group colleague ms kallenbach's report on weapons, which represents a well-earned compromise. the legitimate use of firearms plays an important role across the european union. firearms contribute to various parts of the economy, be that in their manufacture or sale or in parts of the rural economy where shooting is a necessity. many thousands of people also take part in shooting activities in their leisure time. nevertheless, it is vital that there are adequate controls to prevent legitimate firearms crossing over into the field of criminality. today's report finds a sensible balance which will enable those who use firearms legitimately to continue to do so, whilst thwarting those who seek to operate outwith the law.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report and welcome the accession of the european communities to the un protocol on the acquisition and possession of firearms. the protocol will enable greater consumer protection, as it will strengthen the surveillance of the market, allow rapid traceability of arms, thanks to computerised databases, and destruction of illegal weapons and, therefore, will help to lower the illicit manufacturing and trafficking of firearms on the territories of member states.
in writing. this report on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons should be welcomed. tackling gun crime and the illegal smuggling of weapons into the eu has to be a priority.
in writing. my group tabled an important amendment to the scheele report. we believe that the european parliament should have full scrutiny in matters dealing with gmos. i consider that gmos represent a considerable threat to health and the environment in the eu and that all decisions on such matters deserve the fullest scrutiny possible.
in writing. i welcome this report, which seeks to ensure that the residue level of pesticides in or on food and feed is minimal. this is an important issue for animal and human health.
in writing. i welcome, and voted for, the leinen report on the charter of fundamental rights. however, i abstained on the amendment which urged poland to make every effort to apply the charter of fundamental rights fully – as a british member, i thought this might be a little hypocritical.
in writing. the ppe-de group is strongly supportive of the principle of flexicurity, and of helping employees as well as employers adapt to the challenges of globalisation. we have worked closely with other political groups as well as the pse rapporteur to produce a report that was positive as well as balanced, and had reached substantial agreement on all major points. however we have also made clear that we could not support the final report if two late amendments were passed. we could not accept the last-minute amendment (41) from the gue/ngl group concerning a forced reduction in working hours, which would have restricted individual choice as well as remuneration; nor could we accept their amendment 45 regarding an eu-wide minimum wage, as the treaty confirms that this is a matter for eu member states, is not an eu competence and has no place in this report. we will continue to work closely with all political groups who aim to produce constructive ideas to help workers cope with the challenge of change. but we are not impressed by any group who prefers to grandstand for electoral purposes rather than put the real needs of people first.
in writing. i broadly welcome the thrust of the commission’s paper on flexicurity. with this report, parliament makes it clear that flexicurity should improve job security and promote employment security. no worker should be denied rights to equal treatment, to lifelong learning or to social security benefits.
in writing. it is key for the labour movement across the eu that there is an established raft of basic rights which can be backed through legal means if necessary. given the pressures on the employment of millions of people in a modern liberalised economy, and given the effects of the pursuit of the internal market, it is essential that a proper and effective balance be created. i supported the elements in this report which addressed those concerns for the reasons i have just announced.
in writing. flexicurity can only work if there is decent support given to someone who loses their job, in terms both of financial support and help to find new work.
in writing. i voted in favour of the costa report on tourism policy. the tourism industry plays an important role in the economies of every european nation and is absolutely vital in many rural areas such as the scottish highlands and islands. it is important that we in the eu give our full support to the development of a tourist industry which takes account of local economies, cultural and linguistic diversity, and environmental well-being.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report as it contains many good ideas on how to progress our tourism policy. however, i want to highlight the importance of industrial heritage and how this can help regenerate old industrial areas and still provide us with culture and history. the preservation of our industrial heritage is just as important as the preservation of ancient artefacts or geographical phenomena. i come from the region that gave birth to the industrial revolution, a revolution so fundamental to the lives of so many that it deserves recognition as part of our unique european culture. yet resources given to industrial heritage both at national and european level are small compared to other tourism sectors. for example, the european body for heritage and museum railways ‘fedecrail’ leads the world in the area of railway preservation and yet receives little help from the european union the european union should recognise the importance of industrial heritage and prioritise this particular branch of tourism so that young people can understand the significance of our industrial past. surely the time is now right to recognise the potential for industrial heritage to play a major role in any future european tourism policy.
in writing. mr lipietz’s report deals with an important issue. if we are serious about trying to control the production of ‘greenhouse’ gases we must ensure that these costs are factored in on each and every occasion. trade – free trade – is an important motor for the global economy and it is something we must support. nevertheless, we cannot continue in the long term to ship goods thousands of kilometres around the globe, with virtually identical goods travelling in the opposite direction, without ensuring the full costs are covered. yet this transition will need to be carefully managed if some of the poorest people in the world are not to bear the burden of the industrialised world’s profligacy in carelessly abusing the planet’s environmental resources. europe has a responsibility to protect those people whose livelihoods have been built, at no fault to themselves, on a failing to value the long-term viability of the planet rather than short-term profit.
in writing. i voted in favour of the lipietz report on trade and climate change. the issue of climate change is one of the most pressing of the day and requires real action at national, eu and global levels. whilst supporting today's report addressing many of the important international issues, i would also like to highlight the scottish government's proposals for a climate change bill. the government has set a mandatory long-term target to achieve an 80% reduction in scotland's emissions by 2050. i believe that this is to be commended and hope that other eu countries adopt equally ambitious targets in their own efforts to combat global warming.
in writing. while there is a broad consensus on the need to reduce harmful emissions, the author of this report called for measures that would restrict trade with poorer countries – condemning their citizens to poverty, disrupting global supply chains and introducing unrealistic penalties. conservatives believe that the best way to reduce harmful emissions is through more emphasis on technology, agreeing realistic targets and increasing trade with poorer countries so that they can afford to invest in cleaner, greener technology and processes.
in writing. i welcome this report, which sets out a number of realistic measures on how trade might be used as part of the fight against climate change. solutions such as granting zero tariff rates to products with low greenhouse gas production/consumption values; the prohibition of exotic woods importation, a policy of labelling for energy efficient products and integrating aviation into the emissions trading scheme should all be progressed.
in writing. in the vote on amendment 6 on the morgantini report on advancing african agriculture, we had a telling insight into the affinities and sympathies of the gue/ngl group and the wider left family. coming out as the friend of tyrant mugabe and opposing opposition to his presence at the lisbon eu-african summit, they showed themselves in their true colours. believing mugabe to be a despicable despot who has brought his country to its knees, i was very happy to vote against amendment 6 as a means of registering outrage at his behaviour and his intended presence at the summit. the fact that parliament, though by a narrow margin, adopted it, is an appalling boost for that tyrant.
mr president, 23 november saw the first anniversary of the murder of my constituent, alexander litvinenko, in what was an act of state-sponsored nuclear terrorism. the substance used to kill him, polonium-210, is strictly controlled and is easily traceable back to its source in russia, even down to the original batch from whence it came. the crime could only have been authorised at the highest level in the russian political establishment. the british authorities have requested the extradition of only one person, andrei lugovoi, but the murder was not the act of an individual: a team of trained operatives were involved. the british government has ensured that mr lugovoi appears to carry sole responsibility, in order to divert attention from where guilt ultimately lies. the finger of suspicion points straight back to the kremlin. if president putin did not order the deed, he certainly knows who did.
mr president, i just want to rise ahead of christmas to say ‘thank you’, for once, to the european commission for having announced the aid of over eur 170 million out of the european solidarity fund to help towards the clean-up operations after the floods in my country, and especially in my region, this summer. i understand that, if it is confirmed, this will be the second-highest amount ever paid out of the european solidarity fund. as mep for one of the regions most affected, i can say that every contribution is welcome. this gesture of solidarity from the rest of europe will be most welcome in my constituency.
mr president, i would like to continue my strasbourg tradition of naming and shaming member states who fail to comply with the lisbon directives. in 2005, all 27 member states agreed to abide by the framework for the setting of eco-design requirements for energy-using products. by august 2007 only six member states had declared that they had fully transposed this directive into domestic law. the commission began infringement proceedings against 21 member states and, to date, 15 member states have still failed to comply with this law. so the list of shame includes: germany, italy, luxembourg (once again), portugal, malta, cyprus, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, slovenia, hungary, finland, denmark, estonia and greece. in this week when the bali conference is occurring, it is a scandal that member states are failing to conform with measures that they have already agreed with and which could already have had a significant impact on tackling the issue of climate change.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, on 20 november, in the committee on employment and social affairs, i was pleased to support the rapporteur, ms juknevičienė, in her amendment 32 to delete paragraph 1.3.2 so as to exclude the intrusive and offensive question about women’s first sexual act, dressed up as ‘consensual union’. the commission representative at that time present in committee promised me that this ‘insensitive question’ would be removed and not come back. i took that as a victory for me, for my party ukip, but, mostly, as a victory for common sense, and i was ready to congratulate the commission on it. by the way, that retraction proves that i was right to describe it as being about the sex act because, if it was just cohabitation following, which it was claimed to be, why did the commission representative promise to withdraw what was an innocent question? i am proved right. now, when i saw today that the vote on this proposal would not be held tomorrow as originally scheduled but postponed indefinitely, although the debate is obviously still going on, i smelled a rat because votes usually follow debates very closely. i was right. the latest version that i printed off from the computer just an hour ago shows as indicated on page 1, text by the commission, that a new amendment 39 is here. it bears no relation to the original amendment 39, which is an innocent thing about technicalities, but it is the old 1.3.2 – complete with the whole list of questions, including the intrusive question about women’s consensual union. at the time, in committee, i did not like the fact that, when votes came up the following day, the rapporteur had allowed her amendment 32 to be somewhat watered down to compromise a, which only deleted the list of questions in 1.3.2, and left the 1.3 and 1.3.1 preamble paragraphs, which was a peg, of course, to hang further questions on – and i was right to be suspicious of that. this objectionable, intrusive and insulting question has been disgracefully reintroduced as amendment 39 by the commission – against the commission promise to me in committee – and i am more angry, mr president, than i have been at any time recently. i was promised that this would disappear and it has been brought back by the commission – a disgraceful question which no woman should be asked to put up with. it is a disgrace to women; it is a disgrace to the committee which has to debate the thing. i therefore ask all colleagues to vote against amendment 39 and – to make sure – vote against the whole of this rotten, distorted proposal.
before i give the floor to the commissioner, i am reminded that about 2000 years ago king herod instituted a census, but on that occasion it was boys only.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session.
the next item is the commission statement on toy safety.
mr matsakis, i apologise for announcing that you had one minute’s speaking time. it was our mistake and you did, indeed, have two minutes. i always give extra time to people who speak in a language other than their own. your english is wonderful!
mr president, i wish to thank commissioner kuneva for coming to the chamber today, at our suggestion, and congratulate her for being very positive and strong in the action that she has taken. since we had the original debates back in september, she has been to china. we have seen the results of that. she has also been absolutely clear in stating that ‘there can be no compromise on consumer safety’. we all firmly believe that to be the case. turning to the practical aspects, a number of colleagues have already made the point that this an extremely complex issue in which many players are involved. i therefore welcome commissioner kuneva’s reassurance that she will be working with the member states to reinforce their capacity to inspect, to test and also to stop dangerous consignments, which can be properly identified because flows of information have been established. let us be realistic. we are dealing with a very large number of manufacturers and a very large number of products. however, one of the last things we want to do is to demonise those toy manufacturers who are already doing an outstanding job and producing attractive, well-designed, good-value toys that are valued by consumers and their children across the european union and which, as we all know, are very important in children’s development. it is entirely wrong to single out the chinese, as our colleague from cyprus did in what was a very emotional and illiberal speech. there are many other countries that are sourcing products. the most important thing is to ensure quality of design from the outset, and that the engineers responsible work with their suppliers to see that all the controls are in place. believe me, there are many companies producing toys in china to outstanding quality standards. we want everyone to do that and we want that to happen now. this is because the key decisions being made now, before christmas this year, concern the toys that will be in the hands of children next christmas. that is what we are talking about, that is why we are working ahead and that is why it was very important that the commissioner was here tonight.
mr president, the objective of tonight’s debate and the commissioner’s statement must, of course, be to send a very strong signal to consumers and to china – and those who supply toys from other third countries – that we are determined to rid our markets of toxic toys. we have seen that numerous toy recalls in the run-up to christmas mean that we have to keep up pressure for action. and i want to add, commissioner, that in recent raids in my own region – in manchester – over 20 000 illegal and counterfeit toys were seized, with a value of eur 150 000. they were clearly destined to fill the gaps as a result of the toy recalls. therefore, we need the legitimate toy suppliers and manufacturers to meet the highest safety standards if children are not to be put at risk by dangerous counterfeit toys. so, let me be clear, as chair of parliament’s consumer protection committee, what we are calling for you to do with our support, commissioner. we want an urgent review of europe’s toy safety laws, to tackle the problems of new problems from third countries, chinese imports and, of course, new and dangerous toy designs, such as magnets, which have emerged since the original directive of 1995. it is out of date, and it does need to be reviewed. we need to fill that law with stronger, intelligence-led enforcement and surveillance, to make sure we crack down on poor producers. commissioner, i personally give you my support, and i will continue to do that, to go as far as banning dangerous toy imports from china if necessary. but it has to be said that your action has got results; we have now seen 93 bans from china itself and, since july, 184 more investigations, which means that we are seeing less dangerous toys leaving china’s borders. we need to step up that action and give you support; but importers, too, must bear the responsibility for the import of dangerous toy products, and i therefore welcome the supply chain review to close the gaps left by manufacturers. commissioner, we are not prepared to make any compromises on toy safety; warnings may not be enough. we can see, for example in the us, that we have bans for under-threes on some toys and we have warnings for over-six-year-olds; they complain that they are importing our dangerous toys from the european market, so perhaps we need to follow the us model in this area. so let us get swift and effective measures to restore the confidence of our consumers in the toy market. i pledge, commissioner, that my committee will work with you to achieve that.
i should like to thank the commissioner and all colleagues who spoke in that debate. i wish to make one little observation: some years ago my elder daughter was given a present of a rubber doll made in china. the head came off and inside was a little rubber knob to put the head on, and whoever made this toy had put a little face on it; but it was not a smiley face, it was a very sad face, and whoever did this was trying to get some sort of message out about the conditions in which they working. so i am glad to have this opportunity of making it public tonight. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on fire safety in hotels by glyn ford, giles chichester, graham watson, arlene mccarthy, peter skinner, baroness nicholson of winterbourne, elizabeth lynne, sarah ludford, toine manders, david martin, glenys kinnock, claude moraes, erika mann, alexandra dobolyi, ana maria gomes, robert evans, christopher heaton-harris, reino paasilinna, marianne mikko, stephen hughes, stavros lambrinidis, malcolm harbour, bill newton dunn, catherine stihler, sérgio sousa pinto, jan andersson, linda mcavan, luisa morgantini, jan marinus wiersma, harlem désir, jo leinen, zita gurmai, caroline lucas, brian simpson, barbara weiler, christel schaldemose, neena gill, benoît hamon, michael cashman, udo bullmann and corina creţu (o-0066/2007 – b6-0385/2007).
author. mr president, the issue of fire safety is important for the european union and its citizens. the treaty of rome established the collective principle of free movement of goods, services, capital and people. in terms of people, we have put a great deal of emphasis on health and safety issues in the workplace and consumer protection. yet, whilst the mobility of business and workers, along with tourism, is vital to our economic well-being and the fulfilment of the lisbon competition agenda, we cannot do a simple thing like guaranteeing that european citizens, whether as consumers or workers, are equally safe from the dangers of fire when they stay or work in hotels across the member states of the eu. the union has competence for health and safety. we limit lawnmower noise but not the prospect of being burnt to death. consumer protection means that we are concerned about the safety of lifts and escalators but not the safety of hotels. the commissioner has just said that all our actions are proportional. i wonder if she considers that it is proportional that no action has been taken with respect to safety in hotels. fire-sprinkler systems are highly effective, extinguishing or controlling 99% of fires at the earliest stage. no one has, reportedly, ever died in a fully-sprinkled hotel in the eu. however, since 2003 alone, over 60 people in the union have died in fires in hotels where no sprinklers were fitted. tragically, three of these were in my own constituency over the summer in the penhallow hotel in newquay, cornwall, where a fire got out of hand because there were no sprinklers. one of the people who died was a disabled woman who was unable to make her way out of the building unaided. what is the commission doing to protect people like her? the commission will claim subsidiarity. get real! how many people have died in the eu from lawnmower noise or from lift or escalator accidents since 2003? yet the commission has seen fit to take away member state autonomy with regard to these areas. fire regulations with regard to sprinkler provision vary widely across the eu, with hungary probably having the best, and france, which has the highest recent death rate, having none at all. some more enlightened european hotel chains, such as the accor group, are now adopting the sprinkling of new hotels, following in the footsteps of the american brands hilton, marriott and sheraton. but it is not good enough to leave it to self-regulation. at least one federal state is not prepared to excuse inaction by talking about subsidiarity. in the us, all new hotels are sprinkler-protected by law. indeed, federal employees cannot claim expenses unless they stay in sprinkled hotels when on business trips. we, therefore, call on the commission to look into the introduction of a directive laying down minimum provision in all member states that mandates that all new hotels over 20 beds should be fully sprinkled and that existing hotels over 20 beds should at least, have corridors and exit routes sprinkler-protected. that would not be a huge economic burden: it would cost less than an additional 2%. of course, existing hotels should be given adequate time to comply, but what we want is to act now and not wait until we are forced into action by the public following a major tragedy when hundreds die.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague mr ford for taking the initiative to table this question, and i am speaking tonight on behalf of all my conservative colleagues who have jointly signed this, in particular giles chichester, the newly elected leader of the conservative group, in whose constituency the dreadful fire in august, to which mr ford referred, happened. he wants me to associate him very much with the thrust of the question that mr ford has tabled. from my own side it is rather poignant also, because the issues about fires are, of course, not just confined to hotels. a few weeks ago, in the heart of my own constituency in warwickshire, there was a truly dreadful fire in an industrial building, in which four volunteer firemen tragically lost their lives. we have not had the full results of the inquiry on that tragic incident yet, but it is clear that the building was supposed to have a sprinkler system but apparently did not have one fitted. so i want to draw attention of colleagues to that tonight, in perhaps just thinking about some of the broader issues that the commissioner has raised. the commissioner quite rightly pointed to the fact that in the construction products directive, which will be coming to our committee early next year, issues about building flammability and construction materials are dealt with and i think will be looked at again. and, of course, the whole issue of building standards and the potential for fire prevention devices like sprinklers is opened up by mr ford’s question. i am perhaps more sympathetic to the commissioner’s position, as i think one has to be careful about trying to impose a very expensive single solution, particularly in the hotel sector, where we have such an enormous range of facilities in size and scale on offer. but it does seem to me that something needs to move forward on this and i am delighted to hear that the commissioner, with her characteristic initiative that we have just heard in the previous debate, is already moving on this and inviting some of the major hotel chains to meet her. but it seems to me that one of the ways in which we can move this forward very quickly is by giving consumers more information in a consistently presented way and heightening their awareness of it. so when they make bookings for hotels, they may look on the internet – and hotels now increasingly do provide fire-protection information, but i think that varies considerably from country to country. so, maybe, having some sort of rating system for hotels, based on their inspections and equipment – a star rating system if you like, which is applied consistently – is something that would be worthwhile raising and considering with the hotel proprietors. it operates in a number of other areas: for example, in motor vehicles, where the commission has successfully promoted an initiative to have a star rating for cars. perhaps we could consider something to move quickly on this, to deal with the problem that mr ford has raised and which this motion places before the house.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, as the commissioner is aware, we have had several discussions around the general problem of the safety of services. i very much welcome the commissioner’s willingness to look seriously at how we can improve the situation for consumers. i believe there is a serious consumer-protection gap on the provision of services. if a consumer travelling on business or on holiday in the eu books a hotel, can he or she be sure that safety measures are in place to prevent fire or the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning or, indeed, whether the swimming pool is safe for children to swim in? yet, as we have seen with toys and products, we are prepared to protect our consumers. when they are accessing or purchasing a service in the internal market, consumer protection does not seem to be there in the same way. yet many consumers assume that, when they stay in a hotel, there are adequate and very basic safety standards there. and, of course, as we have seen, they are inadequate. i do not believe it is rocket science to install fire sprinklers or carbon monoxide detectors. i think fires and deaths are preventable if the right standards and systems are in place. frankly, i think it is too late – and not good enough – to revoke a licence after children have died, when in fact they should never have had the licence in the first place. we want to help the commissioner take action to drive up standards, to cut fire risks and deaths and protect the consumer, so yes, let us think about how we can best achieve this. mr harbour’s proposal around an eu rating system is certainly something we may want to look at, but that is something, i believe, that the consumer needs to have easy access to, and i believe the tour operators’ hotel systems should actually put that out for the consumer, so i can then decide i do not wish to go to the hotel or the villa that does not have a safe swimming pool, does not have fire sprinklers or does not have carbon monoxide detectors. i believe we can do better for our citizens: we can prevent deaths. i think tonight we have launched the debate, but i do believe – and i think it can be seen from the interventions – that it is the beginning of a campaign for safer services, for the very basic minimum standards to be protected, and i hope that we can make further progress in this area in the not too distant future.
mr president, i know the commissioner has been very concerned about the issue of carbon monoxide safety in hotels since we had discussions about the death of two children from yorkshire over the last few months. i am glad that the commissioner recognises that hotel safety goes beyond fire safety. i think the kind of solution that ms mccarthy suggested in the long term is the right one. we should be looking at improvements to safety of services but in the short term i hope that at the meeting with hotel owners in february, which i am very pleased about, the commissioner can raise with them the issue of carbon monoxide safety. here it is not a question of huge financial layout for hotel chains because you can go on the internet and find that the safest carbon monoxide detector costs gbp 36 in the uk, which is not a lot of money even for the smallest hotel or the smallest company owning caravans. so i think that we should be asking companies to put these safety measures in place now and not wait for several years until there is some eu legislation. families cannot go on holidays expecting not to bring their children home, any more than they can buy christmas presents for their children expecting them to do damage to them. so i really hope that the commissioner will raise this issue with the hotel chains and report back to parliament on this very important issue.
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her answer, and indeed for her commitment to this subject, which has been mentioned by other colleagues. however, i have to express a little surprise. this morning and yesterday evening i was in munster, at the university of munster, on the occasion of the presentation of an honorary degree to the president of the court of justice. taking place at the same time was a meeting of the acquis group on the common frame of reference. they told me that they were discussing, amongst other things, those bits of the academic common frame of reference (cfr) that might be used by your services. so this exchange is already going on, and i would point out that, clearly, parliament wants to know what is happening at any moment, so that it can see how the process is developing. the commissioner will know how keen this parliament is on this whole issue, and how much it has tried to champion it. indeed, the committee to which i and my colleagues belong will, in the new year, be hosting a reception with the slovene presidency to celebrate the arrival of the academic cfr. so we really want to make something of this and continue the work. but we need to be included along the way. we have felt for a long time that this is an essential part of the whole better legislation agenda. i do not know how many times i have risen, in relation to this, to talk about coherence. we know that the cfr is almost there, is almost usable, and yet still we are proceeding with various bits of legislation that contain contract law, without looking at some of the basic ground rules which we are already beginning to formulate in the cfr. we are looking at the consumer acquis review, and separately we are looking at time share. there are other colleagues dealing with payments or with issues to do with passenger transport. we have a tremendous tool here in the making. we need it, and we need it urgently. we accept and are grateful for the work the commission as a whole has done in trying to get this matter dealt with in all the different directorates-general. that is good news. i can only finish with the plea that i have already made, commissioner, which is to please keep us involved. we know there is ongoing work. we can be at your side. we know this is a difficult issue vis-à-vis the council. please use our voices along with your own in order to give this project as much push and drive as it deserves in order to best serve our citizens through the internal market.
mr president, i am delighted to see commissioner kuneva here this evening. i have literally just got off a plane and i was not expecting to speak, but i am delighted to have the opportunity. i am probably one of the few people in parliament who was actually at the signing of the ottawa convention 10 years ago. the campaign against anti-personnel landmines is something that i have been very heavily involved in over many years. so i very much welcome this debate. i think it is very important that we keep our minds on the real problem. when we were all at ottawa 10 years ago, we hoped that this would be a problem that we would really eradicate over the coming 10 years. well here we are, 10 years on, and we are still saying more or less the same things that we said 10 years ago, which i think is a great pity. we have got to get the thing into perspective. we managed to have that ban on anti-personnel landmines because responsible armed forces recognised that they could take this particular weapon out of their armouries and they were fully behind it. we have got to be very careful that we keep our armed forces on board in these debates, so trying to widen the ban into all these other areas is sometimes unhelpful – when we talk about anti-tank mines, for example. these are weapons which we still need, to be used by responsible armed forces in our democracies. we should always point the finger at the real culprits. the real culprits are what some people politely term ‘armed non-state actors’. these are actually insurgents and terrorists and these are the people who are making greatest use of these weapons around the world. if we look at the problem in afghanistan at this moment: the anti-personnel landmines which are still being laid are being laid by the taliban in afghanistan. these are the people who are causing these problems at the moment. so we need to direct our attention in the right sort of way. i very much welcome the debate. i would like to think that we are putting the right resources into overcoming this problem, and that has my full backing.
madam president, i come from a constituency in scotland which does not produce wine. indeed, climate change will have to change things considerably before we can produce any wine in scotland! however, we do produce some very good whisky, which i would recommend. i am speaking on behalf of my colleague, mr parish, who has to attend a meeting with mr michel barnier in paris, and on behalf of the uk wine sector, which members know is very small – it represents 0.01% of the whole of eu wine production – but which seeks no subsidy or financial assistance from europe at all. however, unless there is an increase in the de minimis level of production to 50 000 hl, the uk would have to impose a planting ban up until 2014. in a tiny sector like this, where there is some need for expansion, it would be deeply unfair if we were to do that. even if the uk sector expanded fourfold by the end of the planting rights system, which is highly unlikely, it would still only represent 0.05% of total eu production, which is one 2000th of entire eu wine production. i therefore hope that members will be sympathetic to mr parish’s amendments. i am not trying in any way to undermine the compromise. mr castiglione has done a wonderful job – we had 795 amendments – and, by seeking a compromise, has got the amendments down to manageable levels. i do not want to do anything to upset that, but i hope there will be sympathy for the uk position.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the rapporteur’s explanatory statement is instructive in that it depicts cross-compliance as a condition for continued public support, and tells us that farmers are now being paid for ‘complying with community legislation in the field of environment, public, animal and plant health and animal welfare’. it further states that such regulations are very strict compared with standards in the rest of the world. that neatly encapsulates everything that is wrong with the eu’s attitude to agriculture, with an aggressive regulatory regime diverting farmers away from their natural ambit of producing food and turning them into guardians of the environment, or what this report calls rural development policy, all of which adds mightily to their costs and reduces output. it has also had the effect of putting farmers into direct competition for funding with establishments such as country parks and wildlife preserves, which would not naturally be their competitors. i am aware that the intention of this proposal is to simplify cross-compliance, because it is openly admitted that it has created a heavy, bureaucratic burden for farmers and for member states to enforce. it is my contention that it was a bad idea in the first place, and simplifying it is to merely administer a band-aid rather than a cure. as usual, in eu parlance, ‘simplification’ means more standardisation and more control by the commission. again, the major differences inherent in agriculture across the wide diversity of climates prevalent in the eu do not lend themselves to such standardisation. this report enthusiastically trumpets the view that cross-compliance is an important instrument in justifying public support for farmers. i doubt that even one per cent of the public would have heard of cross-compliance, never mind understand what it means. for real simplification, let us do away with cross-compliance altogether and let farmers get on with what they do best, which is to grow crops and rear animals.
madam president, farmers are not unreasonable people, nor, as a rule, are they dishonest, yet cross-compliance often treats them unfairly, with disproportionate penalties for minor offences and no-notice inspections. we have heard that 68% of all cases of non-compliance are classified as minor, yet the sanctions imposed are too often, for the struggling farmer, almost crippling. disparity in how cross-compliance is administered from country to country compounds the resentments which it has built up in some. in my constituency of northern ireland, we have had a particular problem with duplicate fields, arising from our conacre system. instead of a pragmatic search for a solution, we have had heavy-handed rigidity. much of the blame lies with the local department of agriculture, but it, and brussels, could each have done more to resolve that problem. so, going forward, my plea certainly is for simplification and flexibility, and a good dose of good, old-fashioned common sense to replace the inflexibility of some over-zealous mandarins.
madam president, first of all i would like to welcome the report today and congratulate the rapporteur on his work. cross-compliance and how it is implemented at member state level are crucial. we must not allow each other – and each and every member state – to make their own interpretation. if you listen to what ms mcguinness and mr graefe zu baringdorf said this morning, it shows the difference in interpretation in different member states. we have got to get it right at member state level, and we have got to insist that each member state implement this directive in the right and proper way in each and every member state. farmers need and require less inspection, not more. when inspection happens, there must be sufficient notice before inspection occurs. it is madness, in my opinion, to fine any farmer for the smallest detail; this is already happening. farmers should be allowed a period to put right any problem that is identified, not just be told that they have defaulted and will be penalised. there is a great need to reduce bureaucracy and red tape in farming. cross-compliance must not become a system that allows farmers to be penalised and policed. we should be there to help farmers and to offer advice on how they can do things better. cross-compliance could be a force for good, and those who do the inspections should have clear and proper training and know their responsibilities. yes, mr graefe zu baringdorf is right. i had an inspection at my farm which lasted seven hours. the only thing they could find wrong was that one little part of it was no longer considered to be arable land and we had built a poultry unit, which we did not inform them about. now, really, an oversight as simple as that – building a poultry unit on your farm and not having informed them within the 12-month period – i do not think is something that you should actually be penalised for. you should be allowed to put it right at the earliest possible moment.
in writing. briefly i want to raise through my support of this report the problems still being experienced by eu airlines in regard to rights to fly over russia. these rights are not only restricted by the russian authorities but they are also expensive, issued in a discriminatory way, and in a manner that clearly disadvantages eu carriers, particularly those flying a number of routes to the far east. this problem has been known about for some considerable time but the unwillingness of the russian authorities to renegotiate with the eu on this issue has been both expensive and unhelpful. we now need the commission and the russian authorities to reinvigorate their efforts to find a solution to this very serious problem.
in writing. the common organisation of the market in fisheries products is intended to ensure stability in the market and security of income for those involved in the sector. these aims and, indeed, the aims set out in the ec treaty are worthy and should have led to prosperity in europe’s fishing communities. unfortunately the past two and a half decades of centralised brussels control in the form of the cfp have been disastrous for those communities. a thriving market with job security are not achievable within the context of the cfp and control of fisheries management must be returned to the nations dependent on fisheries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the van den burg report on vat. the report highlights the importance of the subsidiarity principle in taxation matters and, correctly i believe, states that the principle should apply where services have no cross-border element and accordingly have no impact on the internal market.
in writing. i voted in favour of the varvitsiotis report, which seeks to enhance diplomatic and consular protection for eu citizens living or travelling in countries in which their home member state does not have representation. my own country, scotland, does not currently have independent diplomatic representation anywhere in the world. i believe that situation is likely to change in the next few years, and i look forward to scotland's overseas representatives being there for all eu citizens in time of need.
in writing. i was able to support the compromise package reached across this house on the lienemann report on the marine environment. it is essential for future policy in this area that a holistic and balanced approach is taken. the common fisheries policy perhaps serves as a template for how not to nurture the marine environment. central control from brussels is no way to manage the seas and oceans of europe and the wider world. i therefore recognise that the eu has a valuable role to play in marine environmental policy but also believe that the needs and views of individual maritime communities must be factored into the equation.
in writing. i supported the compromise package reached by the various political groups on the krahmer report on air quality. air pollution causes serious health damage across the eu, leading to many thousands of premature deaths. the compromise package will introduce monitoring obligations in relation to certain fine particles and, hopefully, marks a step in the right direction in improving the quality of air and, accordingly, the quality of life for european citizens.
in writing. i voted for this report not because i believe it makes the major step forward we need in tackling air quality, but because it is at least some advance, despite the attempt of some in parliament to weaken this protection. we are now recognising the importance of tackling smaller particulates, which are so damaging to people’s health, and have avoided increasing implementation periods. local authorities have a vital role to play in the implementation of air quality directives, and these standards need to be borne in mind when considering new developments – such as airport expansion or new road infrastructure near schools or hospitals.
in writing. i welcome initiatives that might help to improve rail systems throughout europe in a substantive way. the east of england is crying out for improvements in both passenger and freight capacity and greater use should be made of opportunities for ten funding for the lines serving east coast ports. however, there is another aspect to this matter and that is the through-running of trains from the continent and the opportunities this might give illegal migrants. the report aims to boost the free movement of trains through the removal of technical and operational barriers. there is no consideration of the security aspects. there were major problems at the frethun rail freight depot in northern france which impacted on channel tunnel operations until, in 2002, additional security was introduced. given the absence of consideration of this matter, i abstained on the report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, this 2008 budget is a good result and for that i must compliment my colleagues on the committee on budgets, especially our chairman, mr böge, and our two rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr itälä, who i think have done an extremely good job. like the commissioner, i believe that this budget reflects more adequately the changing priorities of the union today and it is more appropriate to the challenges which we face. i welcome the fact that it represents 0.96% gni and i am also happy to see that the funding for frontex is much more appropriate to the challenge that this organisation faces. there are, however, two areas of concern. my first area is galileo and, while it is not for me to comment on the technical merit of this project, i can and i certainly must comment on the financial disciplines which i see imposed. it was of concern to me that the private sector appeared to show a very low appetite for investment in this project. it would appear to me that there is little or no provision for cost and time overruns with the project, which are almost inevitable, and it does concern me that the vision for the business model after the development phase leaves a great deal to be desired. the second point which i want to mention is that this budget falls under the shadow of the court of auditors’ report. i have to say that, after 13 failures, this is something which must be taken very seriously. it is something which is extremely damaging to the public perception of the european union. two points are absolutely clear. i make my points here to the presidency, the member states and the commission. they must give greater urgency to achieving a positive das because – i repeat my words – it is very, very damaging to the perception of the union. secondly, and on that point, i believe it is time for parliament to be more assertive in ensuring that the terms of the interinstitutional agreement are met.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i think the european parliament has started off well towards the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights with the award of the sakharov prize for freedom of thought to the impressive mr salih mahmoud osman. but he told us that we are failing in our duty to offer protection to the people of darfur and that the eu needed to put determination and resources, including troops, into that effort. how can it be that an eu that preaches human rights allows the murder of 600 000 people and the displacement of four million? the eu must build up its capacity to intervene in crisis situations such as this. without action, our words on the promotion of shared values are so much hot air. i think many of my constituents and the suffering people of darfur will have been astonished at the sight of eu leaders enjoying cocktails in lisbon last weekend with the presidents of both zimbabwe and sudan. a major gap in the council and commission’s 2007 human rights report is any response to the revelations, not least by this parliament, of eu governments’ collusion in extraordinary rendition. we are told that the eu has been active on the issue of torture. how can it be that an eu that stands for human rights and the elimination of torture has offered no true accountability or establishment of the truth, but only blank denials and bland assurances for its own involvement in this barbarity? the signing of the charter of fundamental rights this week – welcome as it is, not least as it will be the first time that sexual orientation discrimination is banned in an international human rights instrument – rings hollow if we see hypocrisy in practice. lastly, mr osman also warned that justice and accountability must not be compromised by a political deal and that the cycle of impunity must be broken. i think we can apply that warning to the current situation in the balkans. the european union must not allow itself to be blackmailed by serbia into signing the association agreement as a sweetener for the loss of kosovo, unless and until ratko mladić and radovan karadžić are delivered to the hague. we cannot sweep aside the judgment of hague prosecutor carla del ponte that the serbian government has deliberately failed to deliver mladić and karadžić to justice. we cannot reward serbia for holding back from a violent reaction over kosovo.
mr president, may i also welcome this year’s council and commission annual report. it certainly makes progress in terms of extra detail, which we have called for in past years. but, if i can say so, it is still a little longer on description and a little shorter on analysis than we would like. however, i want to wholeheartedly congratulate the portuguese presidency on their new guidelines on the rights of the child – a major step forward. i hope in the next year that successive presidencies will ensure an effective role for the fundamental rights agency and the upgrading of eu legislation to provide effective protection against discrimination on all grounds, and maintain pressure on the countries of the western balkans to bring war criminals to justice. i also want to call today for specific european support in the next year for the final report of the un secretary-general’s personal representative on business and human rights. as parliament’s rapporteur on this issue, i am deeply concerned that in bangalore this week indian courts will seek to execute an international arrest warrant against seven dutch activists from the clean clothes campaign because they posted a report on labour violations at the indian supplier of the fashion label g-star, including forced overtime and physical and verbal abuse, on the internet. this is in contradiction of the indian government’s responsibilities under article 19 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. i ask the council and commission to investigate this case, and i appeal for all eu governments not to cooperate with this arrest warrant on a fundamental issue both of labour rights and of freedom of speech.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, mr mugabe claimed a diplomatic victory at lisbon in that he had ‘defeated the british’. in a way he was right. instead of attending the conference himself, gordon brown sent baroness amos, who is, with no disrespect to the baroness, a relatively minor figure in the british government. in the same way, he will send his errand boy, mr miliband, off to lisbon on thursday to sign up to the lisbon treaty. it fell to angela merkel to rebuke mr mugabe with wonderful, almost british understatement that ‘zimbabwe damages the image of the new africa’. well, you could certainly say that! mr brown should have attended the conference and taken the opportunity to tell mr mugabe to his face that he is a bloodthirsty tyrant who has no place in the modern community of civilised nations. that would have given heart to oppressed zimbabweans, and it would also have required real leadership – which is precisely why it did not happen.
mr president, as michael gahler said, clearly the summit was somewhat overshadowed by the fact that there have been these acrimonious negotiations over economic partnership agreements (epas) and a relationship has indeed been soured by these negotiations, as much as the commissioner and the council have tried to work for a good partnership. a number of heads of state raised their concerns, including the head of the african union, mr konaré, who said that the commission was playing african regions one off against the other. the general affairs council this week – rather disappointingly, for some of us – did not recommend the flexibility that many of us wanted to see, particularly towards the non-least-developed countries (non-ldcs), although, as i understand it, the uk and the netherlands in particular were pressing for this to happen. still that sword of damocles is poised over the heads of the non-ldcs and they face the consequences, both economic and social, and economic shocks which, for us, ought to be absolutely unthinkable. there are still concerns that have not been addressed on epas, on development assistance, on rules of origin and on commitments on the impact of agricultural subsidies. these are all things which the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states, in general, and africa, in this case, were asking for. it is not enough for the commission to say that those of us who criticise epas are somehow in the pockets of the non-governmental organisations, that the acp states are misinformed and misled by people and that it is only trying to comply with world trade organisation rules. these kinds of argument really do not wash when we see the kind of dangerous situation the non-ldcs are in. i want to say, finally, that our citizens in europe will not accept any situation where, in 2008, any poor countries are worse off than they are at the moment, and we cannot stand and allow that to happen. we urge the commission to show flexibility.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 142)
in writing. – the european council must turn its attention to burma, where the situation on the ground remains dire. the eu sanctions, decided on 15 october, target the leaders of the regime, their backers and those who benefit from their policies, including trade sanctions in those sectors – timber, minerals, metals, gems – from which the regime draws most of its revenue. but is this enough? the european council must assess the situation and establish what further measures the eu can take to bring about real change in burma. it is time to apply further restrictive measures – including a ban on new investment.
the next item is question time (b6-0384/2007). we gave a long time to that debate because of its importance, and we hope to be able to continue over our time with question time to make up. because we are late, first of all we shall try to deal with the supplementary questions each time as a group so that we can try to get through more questions this afternoon and also, as normal, i would invite members to come to the front to participate more closely in question time. commissioner, i am sorry you have had to wait, but it was an important debate, as i am sure you will acknowledge. the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one question no 34 by lambert van nistelrooij (h-0934/07) subject: energy - world trade organisation although the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) were not formulated with energy products and services specifically in mind, they also apply to them and protect investments in the energy sector. accordingly, export restrictions and discrimination against products are prohibited, and free trade must be guaranteed, although there are exceptions for measures in the interests of safety. however, in the energy trade, the distinction between production and services is not always clear. in the run-up to the inclusion of energy policy as a competence of the european union in the new treaty, what measures will the commission take to tailor wto rules to energy investments and energy services as well?
question no 35 by justas vincas paleckis (h-0879/07) subject: sustainable urban development model towns and cities in the eu member states, particularly in those countries that joined the union in the 21st century, are growing at a fast pace and often without any clear vision. residential areas are moving away from the centre, giving rise to problems relating to transport, the distribution of resources and the development of utilities networks. urban development is therefore having a negative impact on the environment, and energy consumption is on the increase. in 1990, the commission’s green paper on the urban environment recommended the compact city as an environmentally sound development model. recently, there has been a growing tendency towards the multi-centre urban development model. what are the eu’s recommendations concerning sustainable, environmentally sound urban development? what arguments exist in support of each of the development models, and on what data are the recommendations based?
question no 36 by karin riis-jørgensen (h-0933/07) subject: net neutrality in the telecom reform package over the past five years we have witnessed a very lively debate in the usa on net neutrality, including the question of the extent to which network operators can limit and control user traffic on the internet. the telecom reform package addresses this issue, and seeks to resolve it by demanding greater transparency for users about what they are purchasing. but, as we have seen with the intervention on roaming charges, transparency is not always enough to protect the consumer. unrestricted access to the internet encourages innovation (as with skype, joost, web 2.0 etc.). however, when telecoms companies have the right to prioritise and even maybe block user traffic on the internet, does the commission consider that the telecom reform package does enough to protect consumers and promote innovation on the internet? and what would be the optimum solution?
i would also like to thank the commissioner for a very comprehensive answer. i had dialogue with members of congress last week and gave them the same answer, so am pleased that you have confirmed it. however, could you comment on the issue of sustaining open access, given that we are now moving into a new era of major investment in next-generation networks in fibre to the home, in which some in the industry are saying there is insufficient incentive to invest? could you confirm to this house that you will sustain the principles of open access for exactly the reasons you set out in response to ms riis-jørgensen’s question?
question no 37 by colm burke (h-0897/07) subject: european charter for small enterprises the european charter for small enterprises has the potential to play a central role in improving the business environment for small enterprises in the eu. could the commission comment on whether the charter is proving to be a useful tool in assisting and supporting small enterprises?
thank you, mr verheugen, for that very encouraging answer. i wanted to make two points in my supplementary question, on how we should move this initiative forward and build on its success. the first concerns how the charter will be incorporated into your ideas for a small business act, which i consider to be a very important and exciting new development. secondly, linking this issue to the lisbon agenda, would you agree with me that one of the biggest issues is how to help small businesses grow quickly, particularly those small enterprises which have good ideas but find it difficult to get capital, accelerate their growth and create new jobs? is there, within the charter programme, an opportunity for a ‘mini-charter’ for high-growth businesses?
question no 38 by jim higgins (h-0899/07) subject: noise pollution from motor vehicles could the commission outline the legislation and guidelines currently in place to deal with noise pollution from motor vehicles, in particular the defined dba, if any, and state whether it will be making further efforts to ensure that noise pollution from motor vehicles is curbed?
i am afraid we will now have to move on, so questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). thank you, commissioner verheugen, for staying with us as long as you have done. question no 40 by giovanna corda (h-0871/07) subject: liberalisation of the energy market for the benefit of consumers the conclusions of a recent report commissioned by the european commission on the consequences for consumers of the deregulation of the european market in gas and electricity, as well as the very significant price rises recently recorded or announced, show that many member states were not yet ready to meet the challenge of liberalising this market. this being the case, can the commission say how it intends to react to the considerable rises in energy prices which are hitting the consumers who should actually have been the main beneficiaries of the liberalisation? can it say whether, and how, consumers will be consulted, and involved in the bodies set up by the commission and the european and national regulators with a view to remedying the current problems and difficulties?
as the author is not present, question no 41 lapses. question no 42 by bernd posselt (h-0892/07) subject: energy cooperation in south-east europe what measures is the commission taking to reduce the dependency of south-east european member states and candidate countries and the balkan states included in the thessaloniki process on russian energy supplies?
question no 43 by mairead mcguinness (h-0895/07) subject: ireland's integration into the eu energy market the security of ireland’s energy supply is becoming increasingly important for consumers, businesses and policymakers; hence the need for full interconnection with the broader european energy market. to achieve this, the necessary infrastructure needs to be put in place to ensure a secure supply of safe and reasonably priced energy. in ireland, eirgrid is currently in the consultation phase in relation to the meath cavan power project and the cavan-tyrone interconnector, both of which are part-funded by eu ten-e initiative, with the eu likely to contribute to the construction phase. locally there is concern about the scale of these proposed projects, notably in relation to the possible health implications for those living in the immediate vicinity of the power lines. could the commission make a statement in relation to this particular dimension of the problem? in addition, given that the power lines run for up to 58 kilometres, there is a strong argument in favour of placing these lines underground. could the commission outline its position in relation to this aspect of the abovementioned and similar projects across the eu? could the commission outline what is considered best practice and what needs to be taken into account in deciding whether such power lines are carried over ground or under ground?
questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). commissioner piebalgs stays with us but will now answer questions on behalf of commissioner dimas. question no 53 by georgios papastamkos (h-0875/07) subject: eu funding of european environmental ngos through ngos civil society plays a very important role in meeting the needs of the process of european integration and new kinds of european governance. which community action programme is currently in force for supporting european ngos active mainly in the environmental protection field? which ngos (and which of their activities) which contribute to the further development and implementation of the community's environmental policy and legislation have so far received funding? what is the amount of funding received per ngo? is the scope of the existing community programme differentiated geographically? which greek ngos have taken part - or are taking part - in the current programme, either independently or on a transnational basis? what are the criteria governing the selection, monitoring and evaluation system based on impact results and indicators?
question no 54 by claude moraes (h-0878/07) subject: waste crime / protection of the environment through criminal law in february 2007 the european commission proposed a directive (cod/2007/0022) that obliges member states to treat serious offences against the environment as criminal acts and to set minimum sanctions for environmental crimes such as waste crime. this is a positive step - as the environment agency of the uk government has pointed out, one major problem with fighting environmental crime is that fines are too low and thus do not offer sufficient incentives for compliance with environmental regulations. however, given the obstacles facing this directive before it becomes law in member states, what other steps does the commission envisage in order to combat waste crime across europe?
thank you, commissioner, for that comprehensive answer. i recently consulted with the environment agency in the united kingdom on this directive. while we all welcome the prioritisation of the commission in this area, what i was hearing from the environment agency in my own member state was concern that the penalties and possible fines in member states will be pitched far too low for there to be any real incentive to obey rules where enforcement action would not actually occur. this would result in massive fly-tipping and dumping of illegal waste. do you have a view on this, bearing in mind also that the environment agency and other national agencies welcome these proposals very much?
question no 55 by dimitrios papadimoulis (h-0880/07) subject: wastewater treatment plants in greece will the commission say in how many regions of greece - and in which specific regions - problems have arisen relating to the existence and operation of wastewater treatment plants? in which regions is a more powerful wastewater treatment than secondary treatment necessary? have the greek authorities re-examined the list of sensitive regions and identified other waters to be designated as sensitive? what are they? how does the commission judge the marked reduction in the size of agglomerations which practise dumping in sensitive areas undertaken with a view to increasing the rate of compliance with directive 91/271/eec oj l 135, 30.5.1991, p. 40? have infringement proceedings been initiated against greece? if so, in which cases? has greece taken the necessary measures to comply with ecj judgment c-119/02 in respect of the thriasio pedio (the thriasian plain)? what is the take-up rate for funds from the cohesion fund, the operational fund for the environment and the regional operational programmes for wastewater treatment plants in greece?
questions 67 and 83 are inadmissible. questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex). i would like to thank the commissioner for staying with us and, in particular, our interpreters for going over time. that concludes question time. (the sitting was suspended at 20.10 and resumed at 21.05)
madam president, there is no doubt that aviation safety is a vitally important issue and one that we cannot afford to ignore. however, the european aviation safety agency continues to display many failings, especially with regard to its ability to run in an efficient and cost-effective manner. as a result of these inefficiencies, parliament has in the past decided to suspend funding from the agency. i am therefore alarmed that, despite these problems, parliament now appears happy to oversee an extension of the agency’s powers. in order to highlight the impact that the easa is having on businesses across the eu, i wish to draw parliament’s and the commission’s attention to the case of a company in my constituency. this company, with whom i have much correspondence, will see charges for the issue and renewal of maintenance approvals soar as a result of these new regulations. according to my constituent – whose cost increases i have in writing – maintenance costs will rise from gbp 1 206 this year to in excess of gbp 3 000 next year. this represents an increase of 150%. i am worried, to say the least, that an extension of powers to easa will represent only an increase in terms of the burden of extra red tape and not the extra gain in safety that we all desire. until such time that easa can prove that it is fit for purpose in a manner that is not harmful, especially to small businesses, and in a manner that does not represent yet more red tape, i, along with my british conservative colleagues, must oppose any further extension of powers to this agency.
madam president, since its inception in 2003, the european aviation safety agency (easa) has, sadly, been a benchmark for incompetence. now it is time to look at the agency carefully. evidence suggests that safety standards have sometimes been neglected and, after all, the easa is meant to be a safety agency. what is more important than safety? it is clear the agency has experienced significant difficulties in setting up and operating in a satisfactory way. unaccountable delays still exist in its procedures. it is still not meeting its own objectives and the confusion and disruption are putting the eu at a competitive disadvantage. in the uk, regulatory costs are, of course, high because the civil aviation authority is required to recover its costs from the services it provides. but this does not take into account the new increases in maintenance costs and negative impacts on the repair sector caused by easa. but this agency is not just affecting big commercial airlines or businesses. it is affecting private pilots like myself. i am worried. take the instrument meteorological conditions (imc) rating, which i myself hold: the certification that allows uk private pilots to fly by using a plane’s instruments to fly in more unfavourable weather conditions – well, i understand that is now under threat from easa. flyer magazine in the uk writes that the imc’s case is not helped by the fact that it is designed for peculiarly british conditions. the uk weather means pilots need more of an imc rating than others. the scrapping of this would be disastrous for the light aviation industry in the uk and might lead to thousands of pilots like myself having their certificates effectively revoked. i must ask, whatever else the commission looks at, please reassure me and so many other pilots about this important issue. the easa’s performance has been unacceptable. i am afraid it is not yet fit for purpose. a single aviation market is not going to be achieved while distortions remain, while delays in procedure persist and while common sense is not applied to the aviation sector.
madam president, i think this is a historic day, as we are finally going to deal with this vexed question and this anomaly in the internal market. i think we should remember briefly how we come to be here. i was involved, before i came into this parliament, with the issue that has given rise to these discrepancies in the market. frankly, intellectual property and its sanctity are not an issue here. in fact, this is actually a much more fundamental issue. intellectual property is, after all, a right granted to producers, but it is a right that they must not abuse in an anti-competitive way. in a number of countries, particularly in the united kingdom, where this movement started, it was quite clear to the monopolies commission at the time that the car manufacturers were abusing that monopoly, and that is why it was removed. now, that does not in any way undermine the importance of intellectual property protection. i just want to make that clear to a number of colleagues who have made that point. the second point i want to make is to draw the attention of colleagues to an important measure that the internal market committee introduced a few months ago – and i was privileged to be rapporteur – on motor vehicle type approval. for the first time, we now have a regime in which independently manufactured parts that are a critical part of the safety and environmental systems of vehicles have to be tested independently to the same standards as the vehicle manufacturer’s own parts. that new proposal effectively completely removes the argument about safety that i heard mr strož repeat yet again. that is gone: this parliament has made sure it is gone. so, we have dealt with the two crucial issues, and i think it is about time we moved forward. i am pleased that the car manufacturers have finally accepted the fact that you cannot re-regulate a market. colleagues, you know we cannot re-regulate a market. this is an extraordinary anomaly. it has been allowed to go on for a long time. it is something that we want to do to complete the internal market. i think we are being very generous in offering a five-year transition period. i hope the council will accept that. let us put this issue to rest and let us go on and tackle the real issue, which is how we have a thriving car industry in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, mr schulz is perfectly correct that this is a week of celebration, solemnly proclaiming the charter protecting our citizens from abuse of the great power vested inside the union, and the signing of the treaty of lisbon strengthening our capacity to act and improving dramatically the quality of our democracy. i am delighted that prime minister brown has finally decided to show up, although, unfortunately, to show up late. i am afraid that is par for the course for british participation in the eu. please be careful that mr brown signs in pen rather than in pencil! (laughter) the european council is our first chance to step forward decisively from this introspective period of reflection and start to do some serious politics. first up is kosovo, and here the union is about to supervise the independence of a country without the approval of the un security council. it is crucial for the future of kosovo and the rest of us that those who fear that such a bold step will create a precedent choose the wise path of constructive abstention and do not seek to block the self-determination of kosovans. the european council should also begin to take some firm decisions on the size and shape of the esdp mission to kosovo as a signal of its intention. we should also, moreover, reiterate our refusal to sign a stabilisation and association agreement with serbia before the delivery of its war criminals to the icc. it is in this context that the sarkozy-inspired groupe des sages could be put to some serious work to build up some alternative scenarios for the future of the balkans, but it must not mess up our current commitments. (applause)
mr president, again today many talk grandly about european values of democracy. today we will have a pretentious affirmation of a belief in human rights yet, at the same time, the eu elite are preparing to celebrate their greatest stroke of arrogance to date as they make ready to sign the repackaged constitution without a backward glance towards their people and what they want or what they think. the 2005 referendums showed europe to be out of touch, but the lesson learned was not to abandon what the people did not want but to circumvent their opposition by determining this time not to ask them. hence the scandal that, across this continent, national powers will be stripped away, superstate structures will be established, a new eu citizenship will be created, legal personality will be bestowed on the eu and only a handful of citizens will ever be asked. why? because in most states, my own included, the leaders fear the verdict of their people, adding cowardice to their arrogance. so on a day when there is much talk of human rights, i say: give the people of europe the basic political and human right to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to this constitution, the right to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ in a referendum. (applause)
mr president, there are some important issues on the agenda of the forthcoming european council. i look forward to hearing about improving europe’s competitiveness, about progress towards europe’s ambitious goals for tackling climate change and about europe’s commitment to working with the developing nations to alleviate poverty. yet the focus this week will inevitably be on the signing of the reform treaty in lisbon. as we british conservatives have consistently said, there was no substantive requirement for this far-reaching treaty and, just this week, one of europe’s leading academic experts published a report on the effects of enlargement of the eu. she has stated clearly what we have been saying for some time, namely that the eu has been operating perfectly well without this reform treaty. she says, and i quote, ‘the evidence of practice since may 2004 suggests that the eu’s institutional processes and practice have stood up rather robustly to the impact of enlargement’. this is important bearing in mind all we have been told – that the eu could not cope with enlargement without institutional upheaval or even log-jam. all of this reinforces our view that this treaty is all about political symbolism rather than any objective assessment of what europe needs. in addition to challenging the rationale for this treaty, we have also been very critical of the process that brought us to this stage. it beggars belief to claim that this treaty is not in substance the selfsame european constitution that was so emphatically rejected when it was put to the vote in france and the netherlands. alone among his fellow leaders, the british prime minister persists in perpetuating this myth that the treaty and the constitution are different. the british people do not believe him and the vast majority have repeatedly expressed their view that there should be a referendum. mr brown has ignored their wishes and this has done much to undermine his government and the european union more generally.
thank you, mr böge, you are absolutely right. can i ask those colleagues who are not yet sitting down to please come and take their seats. we have roll-call votes which require a qualified majority; they are important votes. please, can you go to your seats?
ms muscardini, all the admissibility checks have been done by the services, and it was open to amendments, so i am afraid we are where we are now. – before the vote on amendment 33:
madam president, on a point of order, i wish to make a formal request to safeguard the dignity of our house. the behaviour of certain members of this house in shouting down representatives of parliament, the commission and the council during the signing ceremony was intolerable and must not be tolerated. it brings the worst of the football stadium into europe’s highest chamber and recalls the actions of the communists in the russian diet and the national socialists in the german reichstag. (applause) my formal request, madam president, is this: my group demands that in future the presidency use the powers granted to it under our rules of procedure to evict from the chamber members behaving in that fashion. (loud applause)
i am now going to move to the vote, but i would just make one comment before i do so. on 29 november 2007 this house approved the charter of fundamental rights by 534 votes to 85, with 21 abstentions. (loud applause)
madam president, my constituency of south-east england is the fastest-growing wine-producing region in europe. the consequence of climate change is that a greater acreage of england is now given over to viticulture than at any time since the reign of henry ii, during the last period of european warming. home counties winegrowers have never looked to the eu for subsidy. kent and surrey, sussex and hampshire, oxfordshire, buckinghamshire and berkshire are planted with commercially viable vineyards that stand or fall by the quality of their produce. yet their very success now threatens to count against them as they approach the limit of permissible commercial cultivation. having remained outside the european regulatory regime and having eschewed the handouts, they now find that they are to be regulated anyway. just as we do not ask brussels for money, so we do not want brussels restrictions. all english wine-producers ask is to be left free to compete.
in writing. the common organisation of the market in fisheries products is intended to ensure stability in the market and security of income for those involved in the sector. these aims and, indeed, the aims set out in the ec treaty are worthy and should have led to prosperity in europe's fishing communities. unfortunately, the past two and a half decades of centralised brussels control in the form of the cfp have been disastrous for those communities. a thriving market with job security are not achievable within the context of the cfp, and control of fisheries management must be returned to the nations dependent on fisheries.
in writing. the leichtfried report marks the culmination of complex negotiations involving the parliament, the council and the commission. the extension of the powers of the easa is an important development for aviation safety in europe and my group was able to support the final compromise.
in writing. i shall be voting for this report and i must congratulate the rapporteur on what is a technical issue of great importance. i would however like to make a few points. regarding cabin crew licensing, clearly this issue causes some concern in certain member states and has resulted in a determined lobbying effort by the cabin crew trade unions. i believe the rapporteur has found a compromise that allays fears held by some member states, yet recognises the importance of the role cabin crew play. some airlines frankly abuse cabin crew by not only treating them as mere ‘waiters in the sky’ but by employing them on contracts that pay minimum rates, for maximum hours, after paying for their own training. secondly it is important to recognise that eu-ops, as approved by this parliament, now come under easa competence. but i would take the opportunity to remind the commission and easa that flight and duty times as contained in subpart q of the eu-ops regulation cannot be changed until a study into fatigue has been commissioned and the wider industry consulted. finally i hope now that other aspects of aviation safety and security can be introduced eu wide, including cockpit door and baggage hold surveillance.
in writing. i voted to approve this report because of the checks that need to be made to ensure the health and nutritional claims made. whilst healthy eating for many is essential for a prolonged and active life it is also essential that adequate information is provided to the consumer. for too long claims made by some manufacturers of popular consumer products have led to consumers being misled over the nutritional and health properties of these products. i call on the commission to devote as much time as needed to ensure adequate clarity for european citizens.
in writing. i supported the compromise package and rejected those amendments seeking to extend the transitional period for the "repair clause".
in writing. i support a competitive european market for spare parts. this will help drive down costs for consumers and boost business for small and medium enterprises. as a result, i support the commission proposal, which would open spare parts markets to competition. as such, i am unable to support amendments which increase the time allowed for the market to be liberalised for up to 8 years. this would slow the progress of achieving our goal of a competitive market for spare parts.
in writing. i voted for this report but there are still many areas of concern that parliament has chosen not to address, notably to make the sector more competitive against third country imports, and to improve the quality of wine produced at eu level. sadly national and regional priorities have got in the way of a lasting reform programme. in europe we must protect our quality wine, and we must also address the issue of producing quality wines at an affordable price. there is no doubt the commission’s proposals have been watered down. thankfully, however, my amendment to lift the de minimis criteria, and those amendments to allow chaptalisation have been accepted by parliament. these amendments are crucial for northern countries and my own wine producers in the united kingdom. the european wine industry still faces many threats, and in the eu we are seeing our own market share disappearing to new world countries. but why? it is because they can produce excellent-quality wine at an affordable price and with a marketing strategy that is based on what the consumer wants in the 21st century; not what the romans planted in the third. we need quality, not quantity, and we need to produce wine that offers value for money.
in writing. the wine market in the eu depends upon the widest variety of choice and upon local production which is sustainable. for many, the issue of wine is as close to a cultural issue as language itself. this is why this vote today was such a contentious one. the impact of sugar labelling or of denying wineries from using sugar additives would have had a prohibitive effect on wine production in northern europe. many excellent wines now originate from the uk and particularly in the south-east of england. this has been the case since the romans first brought wine to the uk. i voted to maintain this tradition and for an open market.
in writing. conservatives voted against this resolution for the reasons that, firstly, the motion calls for more eu involvement through the proposed reform treaty and would thus extend the competence of the eu into the highly sensitive area of national security. conservatives believe in a strong partnership at a global level with all those nations fighting the war on terror, and especially with our american allies. this motion fails to recognise the need for cooperation rather than harmonisation on this issue.
in writing. the british socialist delegation (eplp) welcomed and voted in favour of the resolution on terrorism. whilst the final version of the resolution adopted by the european parliament is not perfect, we recognise the importance of sending a clear, unequivocal signal to those who threaten our way of life that we shall not succumb. the eplp is convinced that the eu can and will do all it can to defeat terrorism and that with neighbouring member states and international allies working together we are more likely to achieve this ultimate goal than by isolationist policies. we take full responsibility for our role as parliamentarians to extensively scrutinise commission proposals in this field to ensure that any legislation which is adopted is appropriate, proportionate and respects the fundamental rights of our citizens. we will continue to be critical of allies’ policy where there are policy differences, however we recognise and welcome the on-going co-operation between the eu and democratic states, especially the important relationship between the eu and the us, in the field of justice and home affairs. we remain convinced that it is through co-operation with our allies not antagonism or retaliation that we will defeat those who seek to destroy our values and principles through violence and hatred.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i should like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner for that statement. i think it is very important, following the eu-china summit – and particularly the eu-china human rights dialogue – that there should be an opportunity for members of this house to examine the outcome. i do not want to spend time on the eu-china summit. i want to talk about the human rights dialogue, because that was what took me to beijing last may when, jointly with ms flautre, i was preparing a report on the reform of the european initiative for democracy and human rights. i want this afternoon to speak for those who cannot speak for themselves. that, of course, is the vast majority of people in china, who want change and reform. but that movement is led by, among others, gao zhisheng, a christian lawyer who has disappeared from his home in beijing, where he was being held under house arrest following his conviction for ‘subversion’ this time last year. while i know that his name was among those raised in the dialogue, i think that one of the problems that we find in this house is in relation to the dialogue. while i note that the commissioner says that it was a sincere and in-depth exchange of views – and i am sure that was true on the side of the europeans – i am not convinced that would be the case on the side of the chinese. in my experience – since the time when i was eu-china rapporteur back in 1997, 10 years ago when this process began – there has been absolutely no product in human rights terms from china in the sense that people’s lives have been improved or prisoners have been released or torture has stopped or the massive imprisonment reported by harry wu from the laogai foundation has ended. he estimates that there are 6.8 million people in one form of detention or other in china today, many of them there for religious convictions – and we think especially here of the falun gong practitioners, who are blameless but who are tortured for their beliefs and, in many cases, are dying. i would like also to reflect on the imminence of the olympic games. one should not forget that article 1 of the olympic charter states that countries should enjoin ‘universal fundamental ethical principles’. that means only one thing: that china cannot be held to be an appropriate host for these games, especially since nothing has fundamentally changed since 2001. i hope all groups will support the joint motion, which calls for an assessment by the ioc of china’s compliance with the terms which were agreed back in 2001. i fear they will be found wanting. my view is that the olympics should be transferred forthwith to athens and remain there forever.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i much admire the contribution of china to the development of world civilisation. in terms of technology, in terms of society and in terms of culture, china has probably contributed more than any other country to the development of humankind. i regret that china’s growing economic maturity is not accompanied by a growing political maturity. but i regret, too, that the european union is not doing more to push china in the right direction. two days ago, on the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, the union proclaimed its commitment to the ‘promotion and protection of human rights throughout the world as a cornerstone of our external action policy’. and yet, two weeks ago, messrs barroso and socrates left the summit early, having secured europe’s economic interests, leaving officials to negotiate the conclusions – conclusions which, unsurprisingly, made little mention of human rights, supported the lifting of the arms embargo and opposed taiwan’s bid to join the united nations. they did much to undermine mr solana’s carefully crafted words the previous month. i wonder what the world is coming to when the european union, the self-styled protector of universal, interdependent and indivisible human rights, fails to speak out clearly against one of the world’s worst human rights abusers. i suspect that both the chinese and others may come to regret the decision to host the olympic games in beijing. the chinese authorities themselves promised that they would bring a greater climate of freedom and openness. and yet figures from human rights watch suggest that abuses have increased in the last seven years. not only does china continue to execute more people than the rest of the world combined but it has clamped down dramatically on internal dissent and media freedom in advance of the games. these developments violate the spirit of the olympic charter. they are in direct contravention of commitments made by the beijing authorities themselves in the host city contract which they signed with the international olympic committee. that contract has not been made public. why? because, if the world saw the complete and total disjunction between chinese promises and chinese practices, we would have no choice but to boycott beijing in the same way that we boycotted apartheid south africa. i do not believe in boycotts. i have also maintained that engaging with a china committed to reform and opening would bring greater fruits than empty threats. but president hu jintao has to accept that a deal is a deal. the host city contract, the human rights clause in the chinese constitution, the universal declaration of human rights – these are promises made to china’s citizens. if china wants the olympics to prove its legitimacy and credibility to the world, then in return it must prove that it is willing to honour its human rights commitments: by improving media freedom in line with the olympic pledges, by suspending the death penalty in line with united nations demands, by ceasing its support for military dictators from burma to darfur and by allowing elections by universal suffrage in hong kong. that is how china can win its place at the heart of the international community.
madam president, i speak in this debate on the eu-china summit and the eu-china human rights dialogue, although from some of the resolutions tabled by political groups in this house you would not have known that the first half of this debate existed. it is quite right that we raise with the chinese the issue of human rights. the human rights situation in china is far from adequate. china continues to use the death penalty, as commissioner ferrero-waldner stated in her opening statement. they repress campaigning organisations for tibetan autonomy, religious groups outside a very narrow range of officially permitted groups, as well as others who promote their regions, promote press freedom and try and organise trade unions. we also have the insurmountable barrier with respect to the hundreds of millions of migrant workers in china who try to organise themselves to end exploitation and to promote decent labour standards. yet there is a complete refusal on the part of many in this house to acknowledge any of the progress that china has made over the past two decades. the human rights situation in china in my view, although far from adequate, is far better than it was back in the days of tiananmen square. as the commissioner stated, the death penalty, for example, now requires confirmation by the chinese supreme court. my own experience is that in china now there is a large degree of freedom of thought but not freedom to organise, because that still is the sine qua non in terms of what china and the chinese authorities actually forbid. we must continue to press china on these issues, but a refusal to recognise any progress positively discourages those progressive and liberal forces within the regime who are trying to push further, because they get no recognition for what they have done already. china is now a global economic, industrial and political power. the eu needs to have a critical engagement that rightly criticises china where it has gone wrong, where it must go further, at the same time as we engage in a dialogue on tackling global warming, the negative impacts of globalisation, african development and the fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think the part of the issue that we are looking at is: how do we combat what all of us see as extremism, this fear of the other, this desire to protect their own culture, as if it is the only culture, as if it has never changed, as if there has never been anything that has shifted in their lives? and yet we only have to look back over the last 50 to 60 years to see the enormous changes that have gone on, even within our own continent. i think that desire to protect often comes from a feeling of fear that, somehow or other, you and your idea of yourself are going to disappear and, therefore, you want to project your strength against others and deny them their existence. i think all of us here feel a pride in who we are, in the country that we come from or our region or our heritage. but we do not, most of us, expect that to be passed on only through a bloodline, somehow, and a deep connection with territory, but through citizenship, through law and through our rights. and as others have said, the signing of the charter of fundamental rights here today was an extremely important symbol particularly attached to this debate. but when we are looking at the election of extremist parties who only have one view of what is right – what is theirs – i think what we see is a legitimisation of violence, of hate speech, of actions against others that they see as different. i remember the time when, a number of years back, we heard of the election of a single member of the british national party to a local council in london. the level of racist violence went up in that area. (cry of ‘bravo!’) that is not a cause for ‘bravo!’ that is shameful! how can you say that and sit in a house where you claim to be democrats? racist violence is to be condemned. and, when we are looking at extremism, i think we ought to be aware that we have not yet seen the death of sexism and misogyny. but the election of such parties raises the level of fear and, therefore, we need to think about how we react to that. we react to it by also making sure that our actions uphold human rights and the values which we hold dear. we have to beware that we ourselves do not pass laws that in seeking to deal with one example of extremism actually give succour to those people or strike fear into the hearts of other communities. i commend the joint motion to the house today and thank all colleagues who have worked so hard on it.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i detest extremism as much as anyone. british people do – we have been fighting it for centuries. if you want to combat rising extremism in europe, look at its causes before you rush into yet more legislation which only restricts; it breeds extremism. let us look at the high-water mark of european extremism, the fascists of the 1930s. in britain, the marches of sir oswald mosley were protected by law and arid hateful policies thus exposed to the light of day were rejected by the people. across europe, fascist leaders were vilified and obstructed. hitler himself was imprisoned – so he, like the others, gained power. this morning, we saw the rise of extremism in this chamber with the signing of the charter of fundamental rights, part of the constitution for europe to be signed tomorrow and on which a national referendum was promised in seven countries. two said yes, two said no – but were ignored – while the others are waiting. in the uk, our government gave a written promise, now denied. so much for the talk in this chamber about listening to the people! for the eu are today’s extremists, seeking to impose their will by way of this distorted document. it has been deliberately written so that no one beyond experienced lawyers can read it, with its numbered paragraphs taken from both the original and the existing treaties, but which do not correspond between the documents. the numbering will be changed for the signing and changed again afterwards to make quite sure that the people of europe cannot understand it. and this pseudo-democratic distortion is to be foisted on the people of britain! no thanks – we have got our rights already, embodied in the great and wonderful magna carta of 1215, supplemented by the bill of rights of 1689. just who do you think you are to overthrow these democratic measures laid down for us but open for all to follow? history ignored becomes history repeated. over the centuries you ignored our lead and paid the price! ignore our example now, and you are on your way to perdition. (applause from his group)
mr president, eight years ago jörg haider’s immigrant-hating party entered into a coalition government in austria. eu governments did not have a clue what to do. as a result of that disarray, article 7 of the treaty on european union was inserted. it has never been used and it is clear that member states have a cultural problem in criticising each other. but we have to have a more proactive policy of peer review when member states call each other to account, because it is an eu concern if extremists and intolerant parties enter into government in one eu country. the criminal law has a solid role in punishing incitement to hatred, alongside provisions outlawing discrimination. the law can help change attitudes, as well as behaviour. society signals the limits of acceptability in part by what it criminalises or bans. that is why i was so disappointed that the commission apparently found the italian government deportation action against romanians, largely roma, and the accompanying rhetoric, compliant with eu free movement and anti-racism laws. personally, i did not. but the law can and should only go so far. for instance, the question of whether to criminalise holocaust denial is a controversial one in europe. the recently agreed new eu law banning incitement to racial and religious hatred was right, in my view, to leave that option to individual countries. my own country’s tradition and preference is to leave people like david irving to condemn themselves by the absurdity of their unhistorical views and to be contradicted by vigorous debate. those of us in the mainstream parties do not have to be intimidated by the thugs and bully boys of the extremist right, left or fundamentalists of any kind. liberal democrats – and i use that term with a small ‘l’ – of all democratic parties are just as confident and passionate about our commitment to a generous, inclusive, european vision as they are to their mean intolerance. let us constantly express that.
in writing. – i will vote for this resolution with a degree of reluctance. it covers an important subject which i have worked on in this house since i was first elected in 1984, when i had the honour to chair parliament’s committee of inquiry into the growth of racism and fascism in europe. my concern is that this resolution is so weak that individuals who back in the 1980s were members of neo-fascist parties like the movimento sociale italiano are able to sign and vote for the resolution today. on that basis, it must inevitably be flawed.
i have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on the commission statementsee minutes. that joint debate is closed. the votes on the motion for a resolution and the vernola report will be on thursday, 13 december 2007. written statements (rule 142)
the next item is the commission statement on world aids day, which was on 1 december 2007.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, there is so much to be done. let me start with what the commissioner really highlighted in his speech, which is the effect on children, because one of the campaigns that is running this year, of course, is stop aids in children. we know that every minute of every day a child is born with hiv; we know that 2.3 million children are living in our world with hiv; that only one in 10 who needs anti-retroviral treatment receives it; in the absence of treatment we know that an estimated one third of infants die in their first year and half die by their second birthday; we know that 15.2 million children under the age of 18 have lost one or both parents to aids; and we know that by 2010, that magical year, more than 20 million children will have been orphaned by aids. that is the children's story, that is the challenge regarding children, but of course it is an adult story as well. we know the numbers that we have in our various countries for people being diagnosed, for people living with hiv: all on the up, and the frightening statistic that one in three people do not know they are infected. that is the challenge, but there are specific challenges i think we should highlight this year, and the commissioner has hinted at some of them. the level of basic knowledge has actually been going down in the last five years: the public is less aware than it was. myths and misunderstandings have been growing. one in five people do not know that hiv can be transmitted through sex without a condom. fewer than half of all sexually active people always use a condom with a new sexual partner. we know that the number of people diagnosed has trebled since 1997; we know that risk-taking sexual behaviour is on the increase; we know that a quarter of all hiv-related deaths are due to late diagnosis, and a third are preventable. and, specifically, we know that failed asylum seekers living with hiv are too often not eligible for free hiv treatment and so cannot afford lifesaving care, and can go on and infect others. we also know that the rate of hiv among male prisoners is 15 times higher than among the general population. all those things we know, along with the knowledge we have of the hopeful signs, of research. recently in rwanda i saw for myself the research, the ongoing clinical trials and the need for trials in africa for vaccines for africans. but all these things need that urgency, and 2010 is the target year; 2010 is nearly with us. 2010, commissioner: you and i come to the end of our term of office. i want us not to hide behind that fact and leave it to our successors. i want us to say, in 2009, when you and i may be leaving office, at least we have fulfilled this promise.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the commission statement on the shipping disaster in the sea of asov/black sea and the subsequent oil pollution.
i have received one motion for resolution see minutes tabled in accordance with rule 103(2)/108(5) of the rules of procedure the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 december 2007. (the sitting was suspended at 19.30 and resumed at 21.00)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his very positive statement. i should also like to thank ms grabowska for her wonderful cooperation on this matter. this is one of those proposals that could make europe a reality for those we serve. it could add practical value at difficult times in their lives. i do not know how many times, as an elected mep, i have been contacted by constituents who are having difficulties getting maintenance from somebody in another member state. all too often, i have been unable to give a practical and positive answer. with this regulation, i hope that in most circumstances we would be able to do much better. the proposal potentially allows the eu to go much further than states can through the hague conference process, which has already been mentioned. we should indeed be able to go further. after all, we have encouraged our citizens to move freely across old national borders within the eu, and should be able to provide an answer, in the form of a good, simple, functioning justice system, when they hit rough times in their marriages or partnerships breaking down. above all, we should be able to offer help to children suffering the financial consequences of marriage breakdown. this proposal would give us a simplified one-step process, instead of the current nightmare of applying in one court and then having to go through more or less the same process of enforcement in a foreign court. that is too much for people at vulnerable and desperate moments in their lives. the legal affairs committee has been happy to endorse most of this proposal, whilst trying to make some technical improvements. in this respect i am very grateful to my colleague, mr casini. however, like the rapporteur, we cannot accept the choice of legal base. it should have been codecision, not consultation. i believe the member states have been entirely unreasonable, both in terms of the content of the legislation, and as regards the implications for our citizens. i hope they will respond to the commissioner’s appeal. speaking on behalf of my group, we do not want to see the effectiveness of this one-step system undermined. we must, of course, respect the rights of the defence – the judgement debtor – but this should apply to the originating court. we should not allow the re-opening of the case in the enforcing court, or we will destroy the very benefits we are seeking to deliver. we therefore want to see deletion of article 33(a), and have grave doubts about amendment 61, which still leaves the door open too wide. finally, i want to make some comments as a uk member of this parliament. the uk opt-out or failure to opt in to this instrument is bad news for many eu nationals from other member states now living in the uk, and is also bad news for many brits whose partners move to another member state. indeed, there are all sorts of permutations where the opt-out will create chaos and confusion. people will be second-class citizens in respect of the justice system available to them. however, what i most regret is the failure of the british government to appreciate the untenable position of british meps in these issues. should we actually be working on, speaking on – and, more importantly, voting on –proposals on things that, as they currently stand, will have no application to those who elected us? others are beginning to question the legitimacy of our position. these opt-outs are democratically untenable and destructive to the coherence of the eu civil justice system. pick-and-mix, opt-in and opt-out merely hits those who are vulnerable and in most need of the law’s protection.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, let me start by answering a question that was put to me by mr graefe zu baringdorf. he was asking why my amendments seek to make this system voluntary. i can tell mr graefe zu baringdorf very quickly why i seek to make it voluntary. last week in my constituency in scotland, cast ewes – for the non-agricultural people in the chamber (there are not many people in the chamber), they are old female sheep – were selling for gbp 2 a head. a year ago they were selling for gbp 60 a head; this year, gbp 2 a head. i ask the rapporteur: how is a farmer who is only getting two quid a head for his sheep supposed to fit microchips and buy expensive scanners and readers that can comply with a mandatory electronic id system? this is the economic problem. the original commission proposal was perfectly correct in seeking stakeholder consultation and in seeking economic-impact cost-benefit analysis. i have not seen all the figures. i do not know what the intention would be for the sheep farmers in my constituency. i have to remind the members in this house that the uk has the biggest sheep flock in the whole of europe – by far the biggest. the impact of this would be catastrophic with the economic situation the way it is. it would actually mean – if this becomes mandatory and we go by the dates set by the committee on agriculture and rural development in their vote on monday night, and we set 31 december 2009 as the mandatory introduction – that a whole group of sheep farmers in britain will close down and go out of business. the upland areas and the hills that have been looked after by sheep farmers and grazed by sheep for centuries will go wild and then the public will realise the damage that has been done. while we are wreaking this damage in a flock that already has the best traceability in europe – we have absolute guaranteed traceability in the uk at the present time and the sheep farmers cannot understand why we want to impose a new system of electronic identification when they already have high-quality traceability – we are importing sheep meat into the eu from outside, from countries that do not respect our levels of hygiene and welfare and the rigorous regulations that we apply to our sheep farmers. so, let us have a little bit of sensitivity here. i hope that when we come to vote on this tomorrow the members will see the reason why we are asking for a voluntary system and not yet fixing a mandatory date for the introduction of electronic id.
mr president, i rise very much to support what mr stevenson has just said and also very much to support what the commission is trying to do. i think we do have to realise the scale of sheep farming and the number of animals involved. you are talking about 25 million sheep in the uk, 8.5 million in france, 3 million in ireland and significant numbers in spain and other countries. the system has got to be right. if we are going to introduce an electronic system, it has got to be practical and cost-effective, and farmers have got to be able to use it practically. as mr stevenson has quite rightly said, the sheep is an animal that is not of huge value, so all of this is not going to be done by veterinarians. a lot of this is going to have to be carried out by farmers, and when they come to read those tags, it is has got to be practically done up the side of a mountain in wet conditions, and all sorts of things. i have seen a lot of these electronic systems work in hotel rooms as you move people through different doorways, and they say there is no collision between the different tags. you also want a system where, when a lorry-load of sheep drives into a market, in ideal circumstances, you want to be able to electronically check every sheep that is in that lorry. this is the ideal system. what i say to you quite clearly is that there is no point in moving forward on electronic tagging until we have got a practical system, cost-effective and ready to use. therefore, i think you are absolutely right to say, ‘come back at the end of 2009 and see where we are’. as mr stevenson has quite rightly said, let us use this as a voluntary system when member states are ready, when there is a lot of movement of sheep, and when we have got a system that works. please do not bring it in too quickly, before we are ready.
mr president, once again we are here to debate the tagging of sheep. all i can say is that it is an awful pity that the commission did not listen to us way back in the early days when we questioned what they were proposing then and advised them. i would say to ms miguélez ramos: yes, we did make these speeches way back at the beginning when there was the discussion on tagging sheep. but unfortunately what we said was not listened to, even when we said it would be unworkable. so we did warn you and you would not listen. the reality is that sheep farmers could never afford the cost of electronic tagging because they are receiving less now for their lambs than they were 20 years ago! you tell me of any other part of any other business of any other industry that is asked to put out tremendous expenditure and receive less for what they are producing than they did 20 years ago. i know this is the case from personal experience. the present system we have is sufficient. so, let us kick this very much into the long grass for the future. i can accept coming back and looking at it in 2009. maybe, over that period of time, the electronic tagging technology, which at the moment is far too expensive, may, like many other areas of technology, become more affordable with a combination of lower costs and better returns to the sheep producer. then we could examine this all over again. the big challenge to sheep production is to achieve profitability and when that happens we can move forward with confidence. i must say it was with great interest that i heard ms miguélez ramos and mr stevenson having an exchange of views over sheep because they usually have an exchange of views over fish, which is totally different! it is probably even more argumentative than over sheep as they are doing tonight. but for sheep farmers, receiving such small rewards for hard work, as has been outlined by mr parish, makes this is a very difficult job. there are thousands of sheep on the top of mountains for all of the summertime. you try and catch them; you try and tag them; you try and follow them. i have to say to the commissioner: i just wish you would send some of your officials who draw up some of these plans out to these areas and see what the sheep farmers have to put up with, see what they have to go through. then you might understand how we feel and why we put forward these views. yes, let us do it on a voluntary basis. let us do it when we are ready. let us move at a proper pace and let us take it at a speed which we can afford.
mr president, on a point of order, i rise to inquire about the potential use of rule 147 of our rules of procedure, following the disgraceful events of yesterday where some of our colleagues behaved, frankly, like hooligans. i would urge the president and the conference of presidents to look into this – to take their time and do it properly, but this, surely, is an instance where the imposition of penalties as foreseen under rule 147 should be, at least, considered. we revised this rule last year to distinguish very clearly between protests that are measured, that are visual but do not disrupt the sitting, and those sorts of behaviour which actually disrupt the parliamentary sitting. yesterday, speakers – including our guest, the prime minister of portugal – were shouted down so that they could not be heard. that is no way to behave in a pluralist, democratic parliament where we thrive on proper debate, not shouting people down. i would urge the president to look into this and, perhaps at the january sitting, announce what penalties he intends to impose: at the very least a reprimand, as foreseen, but perhaps some of the more vigorous penalties that are provided for in our rules of procedure.
mr president, i shall be very brief. i just wanted to agree wholeheartedly with both mr corbett and my group chairman, mr daul. what happened yesterday was utterly inexcusable. however, i would caution, perhaps, that the conference of presidents remembers the – perhaps wise – advice of mr cohn-bendit not to give these people the prominence they seek through their quite unacceptable behaviour. i was wondering whether, perhaps, the services of parliament might investigate whether additional facilities for parliament’s crèche might be found, so that those suffering from what apparently is described as ‘offensive faragia’ syndrome – the symptoms of which are feeling far out and outrageous; it can, in its extreme form, become contagious – but for those who feel obliged to go to this crèche, and i propose mr farage as its custodian, the only known therapy is for them to march up and down with a placard with single words on it and shout at each other at the top of their voice. when the fever subsides, they may rest and rejoin the grown-ups. so, i wish those who held up those absurd posters yesterday and those who behaved appallingly a merry christmas; if they have time over the yuletide to reflect on their behaviour, they might even think what they would like to do when they grow up.
author. – mr president, i should like to emphasise that the greens are very aware that the consequences of a totally liberalised textile and apparel market for eu-based producers is still a very pressing issue, particularly for certain production zones within the eu in which the industry is highly concentrated. several hundreds of thousands of jobs have been lost since the beginning of 2005, albeit fewer than some of the worst predictions. the greens have from the start flagged our concern about the impact of competition on european producers. i think we need to monitor the situation carefully and be ready to apply import restrictions if import surges in the next year overwhelm the capacity of eu-based apparel industries to adapt, as well, of course, as channelling research and development resources to that sector. however, we need to be aware that the problem is very much harder for certain poor countries in the south, like bangladesh and the philippines, which have been induced by the world bank and other donors to invest heavily in exporting clothing and apparel products and now find themselves with shrinking export opportunities, a continuous debt burden, no financial means for adjustment of the sector, and misery – especially for millions of women who work for almost nothing in nightshifts in order to undercut the cheapest offer on the market with an even cheaper one. it is, in fact, that latter perspective that emphasises that in certain sectors, where too many producers produce too many products, some kind of management tools to control supply are necessary and in the interests of the majority. that is why i urge colleagues to support the amendment that the greens and socialists have filed together, which reads: ‘calls on the commission to evaluate the usefulness of supply-side management tools for the clothing sector, in order to level off global competition and prevent a lowest-common-denominator approach to social and environmental standards.’ a completely liberalised market in sectors characterised by overproduction capacities brings misery to all but a few. in that respect i think we should use the example of the apparel industry to press for new thinking about the way in which policy ought to regulate markets for the benefit of all. the reintroduction of some kind of quotas should be considered in this evaluation of supply-side management tools. another option mentioned in the joint resolution which deserves a more comprehensive evaluation is the creation of a euromed production zone of the clothing and apparel industry. indeed, that option not only points towards the improvement of opportunities for development in the southern mediterranean rim states, but also gives opportunities to the southern european textile and apparel producers who would profit from shorter transportation times to eu markets. it is one of the good examples of how a euromed economic zone could be sensitively managed without dragging the whole of the mediterranean region in all-out liberalisation through a free trade agreement. from my group’s perspective, we regard this proposal as an option in its own right that should be fostered independently of the contested 2010 euromed free-trade-agreement project, which, according to the sustainability impact assessments done by dg trade in the commission, would involve a significant number of quite negative social and environmental consequences.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to say to the commissioner that i find myself almost speechless for once. congratulations! i think it is exactly what this house wanted to hear and i certainly hope he continues with the points that he has raised today in his negotiations with china. it is encouraging, and it looks to me as though he has a total and utter grasp of the situation. he would not expect me to say that, but i am saying it because i think he has done exactly what is wanted. i would just say one thing, or two or three things, very briefly. yesterday, i heard in this house one of the best speeches that i have ever heard any head of state give, and that was by the king of jordan. one of the things that he mentioned was the situation with euromed, which has a specific relevance to textiles and, of course, is very important for the stability of the whole european/mediterranean region. perhaps the commissioner could just add his comments on that, because it is coming up for negotiations. i think it is particularly important, particularly as we have turkey on one side and morocco on the other; all would be particularly affected by our relationships with china. secondly, as one who does not believe in trade defence instruments and believes more in a free market, but in a free and fair market where competition is equal, i am pleased to hear that he is following those lines. thirdly, what exactly will happen after the commission’s double checking finishes – i believe the commissioner said at the end of 2008 – bearing in mind the united states has just put in place very strict import conditions? will this mean more products coming on to the european market than we already have? finally, commissioner, may i take this opportunity of wishing yourself, renate and the rest of your staff a very happy christmas and a prosperous new year.
rapporteur. mr president, this report had to be put together rather quickly, because we anticipated – we even hoped – that the free trade agreement between the european union and korea might be concluded by the end of this year. that is clearly not going to be the case but, nevertheless, we are pleased that parliament is able to report today and we hope, through our report today, that we will be able to influence the commission’s position. to get to where we are today, some of my colleagues had to work extremely hard, and i would like to thank christopher ford from the trade committee and emmanuelle le texier from the pse group, who worked above and beyond the normal call of duty to get this report prepared in time. i would also like to thank commissioner mandelson and his services for the good cooperation i have had from the commission in producing this report, and also the korean ambassador, whose assistance enabled me to get an insight into the korean position on these negotiations. historically, free trade agreements between the european union and asian countries have been trade-light, despite their name. i think this could be the exception to the rule. korea has shown a willingness and an ability to negotiate a far-reaching and comprehensive bilateral trade agreement. korea is a significant player in the region in asia. it is now a wealthy country, the 11th largest economy in the world. its per capita income is comparable to spain. it is an economy that is growing quickly, and trade between our two regions – between korea and the european union – reached eur 60 billion last year. so it is a deal worth doing, and, if we can get it right, i think it is a win-win situation. the korean manufacturing industry, for example, can win through access to european services, enabling korean manufacturing to expand and to compete more favourably. we can win, through access to the korean market for some of our key goods and services. the timetable, as i mentioned, was originally set for conclusion by the end of this year. it now realistically looks like may next year will be the earliest negotiations can be concluded, but i am encouraged that, after five rounds of negotiations, talks seem to be getting down to the nitty gritty and seem to be getting serious. there are clearly still significant gaps between the european union position on issues like country-of-origin labelling, technical standards for the automobile industry and on tariff concessions for goods. but the key point is that negotiations are now being conducted at a serious and detailed level. my main concerns come in the field of, firstly, social and environmental standards. even with this delay, the korean agreement looks like being the first of the new generation of ftas that we agree. as such, it can be a template for further ftas, and i would like to see our ambitions in relation to environmental and social standards raised. i would like to ensure that there is a dispute settlement mechanism in the agreement. i do not believe that we should settle for anything less than the united states have settled for, and they have got a dispute settlement mechanism in their report. i believe issues like ratification of key ilo conventions and the post-2012 application of any new climate change agreement cannot be left to mere gentlemen’s agreements or simply encouraging people to do things. we have to actually have some mechanism for settling disputes. i hope the commission will look at this again. i also want to argue that the kaesong industrial complex should be looked at sympathetically in relation to such an agreement. i accept the commission’s approach that, firstly, we have to get the free trade agreement; but if we can get the fta, before signature we should look at how we can assist south korea in terms of encouraging north korea to come into the real world. the kaesong industrial complex, based in north korea but run by south korean companies, is a way of engaging north korea with the rest of the world, and it is a process that we should be encouraging. i believe that, through our trade agreement, we can do much to assist south korea in this process. it is not just a matter of interest for south korea but it is a matter of interest for the world. it makes the world a safer place if north and south korea can cooperate. i believe this is an important free trade agreement. i believe it is one that both the eu and korea can win if we get the right deal. i support the commission’s view that we should not rush to a settlement, and that a good settlement is better late than a bad settlement that we get early. i hope, when korea changes president at the beginning of next year, that the new president will instruct his administration to work tirelessly to reach this agreement before the summer.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, let me start by thanking mr david martin for his report and by underlining the crucial importance of this dossier. the eu-korea treaty will be the first application of the new eu trade doctrine global europe, a doctrine that is highly controversial, not least because it seeks such deep market access conditions through the removal of all kinds of barriers to all-out import penetration, precisely at a time when more and more people are becoming aware that there are very many losers as well as some winners in a completely liberalised global economy. on the positive side, the report sets out some very good standards for trade and social and environmental fields, which greens absolutely support, and in that respect i think the report sets a very important precedent for further upcoming parliamentary responses to other free trade agreements, with india and asean, for example. so we welcome the fact that the report insists that there must be no exceptions to the rule that access to the european market is conditional on compliance with environmental protection standards. we welcome the fact that it demands that the trade agreement with korea incorporates binding social and environmental clauses and, to our mind, this by itself makes it difficult to contemplate that the north korean kaesong industrial complex would be included within the fta rules. most importantly, it intends to give teeth to those binding clauses by demanding that they are subject to the standard dispute settlement mechanism. but we do have some serious misgivings about this report as well. first, there is the demand to scrap all non-tariff barriers (ntbs) to trade without any attempt at differentiating what really constitutes a legitimate ntb and what does not. we should not assume that everything that prevents unfettered free trade is an illegitimate obstacle. there are some very good reasons to qualify trade, especially when public policy wants to put in place controls for social, health or environmental reasons. we are also opposed to the full introduction of the so-called ‘singapore issues’ into the free trade agreement. again there are good reasons why total investment freedom or public procurement should remain outside the scope of a trade agreement. korea had a devastating experience with the free flow of capital in the late 1990s and they have used sheltered public procurement policies to get back on their feet since then. now, it is not up to us to judge whether they should offer those items on their side, but we are allowed to judge for our side, and my group does not support giving unlimited freedom to foreign investors in europe or destroying the possibility of engaging in public spending for social goals through specific domestic procurement policies.
mr president, i wish to join with the other speakers in congratulating mr martin on his report on a free trade agreement with south korea, which is the eu’s fourth largest trading partner outside europe and the world’s eleventh largest economy. i want to deal briefly with two issues. firstly, the opposition of trade union and farmers’ groups to the free trade agreement with korea and, secondly, the case of the industrial zone. in the first case, we need to place the opposition in perspective. thousands demonstrated against the us agreement with korea and a number of people burnt themselves to death. rather than thousands, we have only dozens protesting, possibly because we are attempting to include in our free trade agreement an associated political cooperation agreement – social, political and labour clauses that will help protect labour standards in the south and may well enhance them. at the same time, we will not have the discussion over rice which korea had with the united states. with respect to kaesong, we are not arguing that this should be included. we are arguing that we should not automatically exclude it. that is a rather different position, and i hope that on that basis the liberals will be able to change the way they vote. as the former prime minister of jamaica once said, the only thing worse than being exploited is not being exploited. some of us had the opportunity to visit kaesong last month, as part of an eu workshop on economic reform held in north korea. i saw thousands of happy north koreans flooding from the zone, smartly dressed, because they have standards of living six times higher than in the north. this is an opportunity, politically and economically, to actually change that regime and move things in the right direction. kaesong can transform the north and, allowing for the difficulties, should be encouraged and not killed.
in writing. as a representative from a region, northern ireland, where sinn fein, affiliates of a terrorist organisation which recently murdered a young man, paul quinn, has been admitted to government in a coalition with exclusively democratic parties, i was encouraged to note and vote for amendment 14 which was in the following terms: ‘deplores the fact that some mainstream parties have seen fit to give credibility and acceptance to extremist parties by entering into coalition agreements, thereby sacrificing their moral integrity for the sake of short-term political gain and expediency.’
in writing. whilst opposed to extremism in any form, ukip does not believe that we, the british people, need to take any advice on this issue from the eu, and nor would ukip call for the eu to take any action. this, like all other matters, should be the prerogative of independent, democratic nation states.
in writing. whilst opposed to extremism in ny form ukip does not believe that we, the british people, need to take advice on this issue from the eu, and nor would ukip call for the eu to take any action. this, like all other matters, should be the prerogative of independent, democratic, nation states.
in writing. while i fully subscribe to genuine measures to overcome racism and extremism, this sort of resolution, generated by the left, is not helpful and is merely intended to take forward their own distorted agenda. in fact, there is little to distinguish the extreme left and the extreme right and they feed off one another. however, the left has been successful in taking the spotlight off its own extremes and promoting institutions and policies which assist its own objectives. the eu, in its continuous efforts to extend its own reach, is often complicit in this. i do not approve of eu quangos such as the so-called ‘eu agency for fundamental rights’ or indeed funding from public money of the constellation of ngos pushing the left’s agenda. i therefore abstained on the resolution.
in writing. i am opposed to extremism in any form, but i do not accept that the british people must take advice from the eu on this - or indeed on any other matter. i was not elected to have the eu extend or expand its control over the uk. this matter should remain in the control and prerogative of independent, democratic nation states.
madam president, we are all very aware of the appalling humanitarian and security situation in eastern chad. this cannot be separated from the wider regional catastrophe in darfur: 300 000 people massacred, two million displaced persons, four million people living on western food aid. for three years now, the international community has been wringing its hands. i recognise that the european union has sponsored large-scale humanitarian aid to the region. that is the good side. politically, the eu’s contribution is less commendable. it fêtes the sudanese dictator omar el bashir in lisbon, along with mugabe the oppressor of zimbabwe, where in the ultimate sickening act of hypocrisy they sign up to a declaration on human rights and good governance. the eu’s other contribution is to try and engage in some half-baked military mission in order to stick the esdp badge on another military operation. the fact is this proposed mission is poorly conceived; the size of the force is inadequate; it lacks vital medical, logistic and transport support elements; it is already three months behind schedule and there is no contingency reserve if the situation should deteriorate even further. we need only look at the random involvement in this mission – what is after all a largely french-driven operation – to understand why many in chad, sudan and the central african republic, let alone our own military officers, have a seriously sceptical attitude towards this project. soldiering should be left to others. as a matter of urgency it is the un-au effort that should be reinforced as part of a coherent strategy for the whole region. this should be politically driven by the un security council.
author. madam president, recently king abdullah of saudi arabia was afforded a controversial state visit to the united kingdom. our deputy foreign minister praised the shared values of the uk and saudi arabia. i found this sycophancy absurd, as my values of democracy, human rights and gender equality are alien to saudi tradition. of course, the eu’s relationship with the house of saud is based on regional stability and on important commercial ties, in particular oil and arms trading. in fact, the relationship is so important that a three-year uk inquiry into alleged bribes paid to saudi ministers by an arms contractor was killed by orders of prime minister tony blair on the grounds of national security. worryingly, saudi arabia’s brand of fundamentalism, wahabi islam, is being exported globally. in london – my constituency – textbooks at a saudi-funded school were found to contain hate-filled passages about christians and jews. this case of the qatif gang-raped woman sentenced to 200 lashings has horrified the world. parliament’s joint motion for a resolution expresses revulsion and repudiation of the kingdom’s values. twenty years ago a british tv documentary similarly recounted a story of a saudi princess who was publicly executed for adultery. the eu and saudi arabia have shared vital foreign policy interests, such as supporting the middle eastern peace process, encouraging the saudis as sunni muslims to contain expansionist shia iran and supporting the saudi fight against al-qa’ida, many of whose adherents, unfortunately, come from saudi arabia originally. but we also need to hold the saudis to their un convention obligations to remove discrimination against women, who cannot even drive a car or vote in their limited local elections. but let us not kid ourselves that we share values with this fundamentalist and medieval regime.
author. madam president, there has been a change in the ppe-de voting list. i would recommend to colleagues that the change should be from positive to negative. on the original text, on recital b, there is a request for a vote on the original text by the uen group, and i am recommending to colleagues that we now vote to delete that paragraph, i.e. vote against. it currently appears as positive. we want to change it to ‘against’.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is often said that the exception proves the rule and this presidency proved no exception! too often we are proffered fine words and vaulting ambitions from presidency programmes honoured more in the breach than the observance. but, by resurrecting a treaty that we all thought dead and buried, you have showed the improbable is indeed possible. from here on in, lisbon will be etched on our memories as the moment europe gave itself the tools and tenacity to make globalisation work for us, not against us. politics would not be politics if we let major successes obscure minor failures. while the lisbon treaty is an undisputed success, one should beware of hubris. the lisbon summit, while symbolically important, may have pushed europe and africa further apart. consensus on epas is receding as swiftly as eu assurances to put trade at the service of development. what happened to the great debate on flexicurity? your big idea for revitalising europe’s economy, which fizzled out before we failed even to define it? where is the blue card for migration? or greater labour mobility within the union? or linking the lisbon and gothenburg agendas through full unbundling and cuts in co2? you say you have left your mark on justice and home affairs, but watch out. data-sharing arrangements are dangerously ahead of arrangements for data protection and data security. on the positive side of the ledger: european leadership in bali, an excellent agreement on next year’s eu budget, the constructive abstentions you engineered to give us a common policy on kosovo are tribute to the skills of your ministers. and, thanks to your courage and determination, prime minister, europe’s bigger member states can only retard rapid progress for so long. for, come 2009, when qualified majority voting is in place, when parliament holds power of codecision and vetoes can no longer hold europe hostage, the progressive majority, the centrist majority will succeed in making europe’s choices black and white, unblemished by any blotch of brown. europe may have lost beethoven’s ‘ode to joy’, but you have understood well what shakespeare called the ‘the tide of pomp that beats upon the high shore of this world’. and, as befits the leader of a great seafaring nation, you have caught it on the ebb. (applauses)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, can i say how much i enjoyed watching you signing the 2008 budget for the european union earlier this afternoon and – who knows? – perhaps this year the auditors might sign the accounts as well. that would be rather fun would it not? mr sócrates, i have no doubt you are delighted with your presidency and the fact that last thursday you got this treaty signed in that magnificent monastery in lisbon. but i cannot join in the congratulations of the other group leaders because to me this simply is not straight dealing. because what was signed at lisbon was a constitutional treaty. it is identical in content to the constitution that was kicked into touch by the french and by the dutch. all you have done is you have dropped the ‘c’ word for fear that will cause offence, you have renumbered the articles and you have given us a treaty. frankly, what you have been engaged upon is nothing better than a giant deceit. a deliberate attempt to force the constitution upon the peoples of europe but without having the courage to call it that. it is dishonest; it is designed purely to stop there being referendums in member state countries. and, behind all of this, is this new and i think extremely dangerous form of euronationalism, the desire to create this state. and it does not take ‘no’ for an answer, and it is not prepared to stop at anything. you only have to see in this chamber when the anthem – the anthem which is not even supposed to be in the new treaty – is played and you see people standing here, ramrod straight. the european project is about nationalism. to impose upon people a new nationality, a new legal order without first seeking their consent is a damn dangerous thing to do. so please finish your presidency well. keep your promise to your people in portugal. give the people in portugal a referendum. that will encourage the other member states to do the same. frankly, if this treaty is as good as you say it is, then go out there and sell it to the peoples of europe. (applause from the independence/democracy group)
mr president, may i compliment the prime minister for his statement today and on his time as president-in-office of the council. i am pleased that the european council remains committed to action on climate change. i welcome also the commitment to addressing the remaining barriers to completing the single market, although i am concerned that the lisbon strategy emphasis seems to be moving away from the need for economic reform towards the so-called ‘social model’. i suspect the lisbon meeting was a gathering that the british prime minister will not look back on with pride. he signed up to a treaty on which he promised the british people a referendum. he has now reneged on that pledge. i believe the treaty fails to address the fundamental issues of transparency and accountability – bringing europe closer to the people – that the laeken declaration made a priority. mr brown’s behaviour in lisbon was both extraordinary and maladroit. by signing the treaty at all, he upset the majority of the british people; by snubbing the formal ceremony, he insulted his fellow heads of government. even by his standards, this was breathtaking political miscalculation. the announcement that there is to be a reflection group on the future of europe is not welcome. why do we need yet another body when we have just had three years of self-imposed agonising over the constitution? mr brown says there will be no more institutional debate. he said, and i quote, ‘it is time to focus on the economy, on security, on the environment’. yet mr sarkozy in effect says, ‘au contraire – it will think big’. as he said, and i quote, ‘the job of the group is to define a new european dream.’ i thought that is what mr giscard d’estaing was supposed to have done. i feel a little confused. perhaps the prime minister can help me.
mr president, i think our experience of the presidency is that, where qualified majority voting is permitted to work, such as revising the financial perspectives to support galileo, we make progress. where qmv can be deployed but is not – such as the working time directive – decisions are missed, compromises do not emerge and no progress is made. the treaty of lisbon extends qmv. let us in the future show complete self-confidence in deploying it. but it is the treaty of lisbon and the charter that will endure as the lasting testament to a presidency managed with skill, efficiency and charm. obrigado.
in writing. – the signing of the reform treaty was the highlight of the portuguese presidency of the council, and the news that the hungarian parliament has already ratified it (despite not yet having the benefit of the european parliament’s views on it, as we will vote in february) is welcome. there has been much comment on gordon brown’s late arrival at the signing ceremony, which some claim as reluctance. in fact, it can be read the other way: despite the diary clash (with his first appearance as prime minister at the commons liaison committee) making it impossible to be there in time for the ceremony, he insisted on going anyway to sign in person rather than leave it just to david miliband, which would have been perfectly possible.
