mr president, madam president of the european council, madam chancellor, you received a long applause at your opening speech. it's important to me. but more importantly, you'll get the same extended applause at your farewell speech six months from now. many came here with a great applause and left with disgusting slogans and messages and cheers, like mr blair of great britain. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have changed your mind many times about turkey; i like to think you'll stick to one point. that's the least we need. because, just yesterday, your ambassador called turkey to ankara and said that we would finance the trade of the occupied. you come from a country that is almost occupied and you know what occupation means. so you're going to finance the occupation army? the european union must also take the necessary steps to ensure that the peace process in the region is not disrupted by the military intervention of the turkish cypriot authorities. but you can't finance an occupying army. and you must, of course, ensure that there is equality. in this chamber we have the german president of the house, the german chairman of the foreign affairs committee, the german leader of the official opposition, the socialists, and even the president of the green party. well, let's have equality for all groups. so show respect for the smaller countries so that you can move forward. and i'll close with this: madam chancellor, remember that moscow is two hours from berlin by plane, while washington is nine!
as this is my first time in the chamber, let me first of all thank you for the applause, for your welcome and for the confidence you have shown in me. the final draft agenda has been circulated. the following amendment has been proposed: wednesday: i have received a request from the committee on economic and monetary affairs to postpone the oral question by mrs pervenche berès (o-0126/2006 - b6-449/2006) to the commission on the further convergence of supervisory practices at european union level, which is on our agenda today, for one of the next meetings, so that it can be dealt with together with the oral question to the council on the same subject.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the death sentence for medical personnel in libya.
i would like to welcome to the chamber the former president, mr borrell fontelles.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr. president, there are three rules about guns. first rule: the weapon is made to kill people; weapons are not made to kill chickens. rule number two: anyone with money can buy any weapon. rule three: there are no rules in the arms trade. really, who sold weapons to israel to invade lebanon this summer? who sold weapons to turkey to invade and occupy cyprus for 40 years? this is the reality. who armed saddam hussein? the americans to use him as a weapon against iran. who armed the great terrorist that all of humanity is hunting today, bin laden? he was armed and funded by america when he was playing the game with afghanistan and russia. so there are no rules. let us not try to make rules that will not be enforced. on friday, a rocket exploded at the american embassy in athens. this weapon has never been purchased by the greek army; and yet, the rocket did a lot of damage to us, and we don't know where it came from. it came from albania, it came from lebanon? because it's the same rocket used by the albanian army and hezbollah. but he came. there are 150,000 kalashnikovs in my country. yet we have never bought one of those weapons. but they're coming into the country. you know what's wrong with the schengen agreement? the problem is that weapons are being transported from one end of europe to the other and not checked by any customs officer. i would remind you, commissioner, that seven years ago the largest cannon ever built passed through europe. a 50-meter cannon for saddam hussein and it was intercepted by a customs officer in patras. so we are wasting our time. let us stop the construction, let us move to disarmament if we really want to save human lives. what we're doing is we're just playing traffic cops on who gets killed and in which country.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank you very much for your understanding that i must leave your meeting now because of another appointment in stuttgart. i would like to thank all of you very much. i have already expressed my gratitude to the rapporteur, but i also thank you, as members of the european parliament, for your commitment and your continued interest, because i believe that it is an important point to continue to treat this subject with sensitivity. i can assure you that the presidency will of course continue to seek dialogue with the colleagues of the european parliament. the common position has been mentioned in various speeches, and you know that it requires unanimity among the member states. this has not been achieved. but perhaps we can give it a new impetus. the presidency will in any case try to ascertain whether there has been any change in certain positions. i cannot, of course, tell you the result at this stage, but the effort is there. i thank you again for your interest and also for your understanding that i must leave your meeting now.
mr president, first of all i would like to say that the report by mr raül romeva i rueda really does capture the problem. the commission has done a very important job and we as a socialist group will support it as we do in the committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that we have to discuss today, ladies and gentlemen, the main political problem we have before us: why is the council of ministers still refusing to convert the code of conduct into a legally binding text for all, into an effective common position? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european citizens, mr president, want to know what are the national, economic or strategic interests of certain governments and certain member states which continue to impede our will to transform the code of conduct into a text, into a much more binding political position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is linked to the very credibility of the european union. it is linked to the principles and values on which we want to build a common vision of a european union of peace, security, stability and development for the developing peoples of the third world. we have supported, as the european parliament and as the socialist group, the imposition of an arms embargo against china because of its continuing violation of human rights. that is what we must remain steadfast in. but, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must at some point be honest and say that the embargo and sanctions against china have not contributed in the least to the improvement of the human rights situation in china, and that is something we should particularly consider. the responsibility of member states exporting arms, particularly to unstable regions of the world, but also to third countries which violate the fundamental principles of the un by maintaining occupying forces in member states of the european union, as is the case with turkey in cyprus, is enormous. today, a council decision to make the code a legally binding text will be not only a symbolic but also a substantial contribution by the european union to consolidating global stability.
the third package of measures for the eu's rail transport opens the way to full liberalisation, i.e. handing over to monopolies, in order to safeguard and increase the profits of eu capital. the eu's measures in this area have so far also raised ticket prices, led to thousands of redundancies and intensified work for workers, to a slashing of their wage and social rights, and to a sharp increase in accidents, despite provocative subsidies from governments in the member states. the liberalization of rail services and the conditions and qualifications of workers imposed by the eu mean that they are being exploited more intensively, that work is becoming more intensive and that there are more risks to passenger safety. the hypocritical proclamations about the institutionalisation of passenger rights are merely a 'blurring of the painful consequences of liberalisation for railway workers and passengers'. the main conclusion is that within this exploitative system that operates on the basis of capital's profit, this social need cannot be met by monopolies, so radical changes are needed. the committee on transport and tourism has called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
i am glad that we are going to be able to work together under the new presidency. i would also like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs petersen, on her work and wish her every success in her new career now that she is leaving our parliament. ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the road safety issue we are discussing tonight is very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. but it is also a great opportunity to show the effectiveness that the european union can have in the daily lives of its citizens and the added value it can bring to the efforts and policies of the member states. the mid-term review of our action programme highlights the progress made in responding to accidents; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we must not forget that the effort to strengthen the single market, to strengthen our tourism, to increase the mobility of european citizens, to increase our competitiveness leads to an increase in vehicle traffic and an increase in the likelihood of accidents. the first point i want to make tonight is that we need to coordinate better the tools and capabilities we have, whether it is the enforcement of legislation on signalling, driver behaviour, the quality of road construction and maintenance, road lighting, the safety belt and so on. the second point i would like to stress is the need for a single security throughout the european union. in addition to coordination and the exchange of good practice, we need to promote the single driving licence and prevention and response systems such as ecall.
madam president, i congratulate you and all your female and male colleagues on your new duties. in accordance with the fundamental principle of equality in community law - article 2 of the treaty - and with the aim of eliminating inequalities between men and women on the basis of the principle of an integrated approach to equality - article 3 (2) - the european parliament made a political commitment in its resolution of 2003 to acquire an institutional framework to this end. the dynamic has been shaped since 2005 by the committee on women's rights and equality and the work of the high level group on equality. under the inspired guidance of its president, ms záborská, and with the substantial contribution of the representatives of the other 21 parliamentary committees responsible for equality issues and their secretariats, today, the year of equal opportunities for all, the first european parliament document giving substance to its political commitment to self-criticism in implementing the integrated approach is being adopted. the findings were made using a methodology original to the european parliament, which was developed with ingenuity to record the existing situation. the positive thing is that, although most committees have set their priorities without a strategy for our issue, they are in favour of mainstreaming equality issues. the report sets out how integration will be carried out, according to a plan which we are today voting to give to the committee on women to draw up by the end of the parliamentary term. and of course, until then, we all have to go to the doctor, both the employees and the members, so that we can develop the appropriate evaluation mechanisms, so that we take into account the specificities of each parliamentary committee and the policies complement and go hand in hand, combining the responsibilities and interests of the members. the consolidation of the control of the integrated approach twice per term will allow for quantitative and qualitative evaluation. it is a matter of justice, and i am glad that the commissioner responsible for justice is among us. we should not criticize the failure to promote women in decision-making positions, but we should criticize the prevention of worthy women from competing with worthy men. we are asking, commissioner, for the restoration of rights and the establishment of a state of dignity for men and women.
in writing. with regard to the recommendation for second reading on the council common position for adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations (sterckx report) i would like to explain that the members of the pse greek delegation (arnaoutakis stavros, beglitis panagiotis, matsouka maria, lambrinidis stavros and tzampazi evangelia) abstained from the votes on amendments 59 and 69 according to which: ‘all trains, including cross-border and high-speed trains, shall provide a specially designated area enabling passengers to bring on to the train baby carriages, wheelchairs, bicycles and sports equipment possibly against payment’. although we agree with the implementation of this parameter with regard to the other tools, as far as wheelchairs are concerned, however, it should be taken into consideration that these are not just a tool for people with disabilities but they are actually part of their body. in that sense, there should be no additional payment for their transport. therefore we abstained from the votes on amendments 59 and 69, supporting in that way the right of people with disabilities to travel without any additional charge.
the fact that today's debate has been dominated by the broadest consensus of the political groups confirms that the european parliament can be the guarantor of european democratic culture, the protection of human rights, human dignity and the right to life. it has been shown, madam president, that the death penalty not only does not prevent crime but also fuels hatred and violence. to the barbarity of a criminal act the civilized world cannot respond with the barbarity of death. we welcome the initiative of the italian prodi government and the support given to it by the president of the socialist international, mr george papandreou. the european union's member states should all of course ratify the un optional protocol, the 13th protocol to the european convention on human rights. i would say, however, that all member states should incorporate into their internal constitutional order a provision in favour of the abolition of the death penalty. in conclusion, madam president, i would like to say that we must not ignore the fact that today in european societies there is a large proportion of citizens who are still in favour of the death penalty, and therefore we must work in this direction, together with the european commission, with programmes through democratic consultation to convince european societies.
the president of the council. the commission has already done so. this debate has shown the extent of agreement on one of the most basic objectives of human rights policy in the european union. the italian initiative was frequently mentioned in the debate. there must be no misunderstanding. it is not a question of whether this initiative should be taken or what its aim should be, but of how, where and, of course, when, i.e. of the procedure and not of the content. commissioner, you made that very clear earlier. at the general assembly on 19 december last year, 85 states joined the unilateral declaration read. how encouraging! but on the other hand we must also determine and consider whether we can achieve our objective at all, because so far only 21 of the 47 members of the new human rights council in geneva support this declaration. we have not yet won a majority. the situation is similar in the third committee of the united nations. as i said in my statement earlier, the point now is to take various initiatives. the council of general affairs and external relations has also developed a strategy to achieve the objective you have mentioned in all your speeches. we do not know when we will be able to do this. but i can assure you that we will support you in your efforts, and we, the commission and the presidency, are also united in our efforts to abolish the death penalty once and for all.
member of the commission. madam president, i endorse what the president-in-office council has just said. i think there is widespread consensus in this house and between all the eu institutions on the substance of today’s debate and where we want to go, but sometimes we have to see what the next tactical step is. i want to clarify that the commission is certainly favourable to the introduction of a moratorium as an important intermediate step towards the complete abolition of the death penalty. we of course support the italian initiative and parliament’s motion for a resolution, but we have to see – and this is at stake – the tactical nature. how can we ensure that the planned un general assembly initiative will be successful? we need to ensure very good preparation. we have to reach out to all the un members, and we need pertinent timing for the launch of the initiative of such a worldwide moratorium. we are also quite active not only at un level, but also at bilateral level; we try to do that be it in china or peru. i have, for instance, written to the peruvian president to express our deep concerns, and hopefully there is still a chance to block it. i would also like to thank parliament, because it also has possibilities. it has used them in the past, and maybe it can use them even more by talking to the different delegations. very often, as i said before, it is a domestic issue, and the more parliament can talk to parliaments, the better we can influence this.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on climate change.
mr wurtz, i have noted your proposal to have an exchange of views in our parliament with the experts who are discussing the subject these days in paris. the debate is closed because of the vote scheduled. it will continue after the vote.
mr. president, scientists have been sounding the alarm for years. we are not talking about a future danger but a present threat. that is why ambitious announcements are not enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the example of cars is typical. as soon as the general announcement is about to become a specific measure, the lobby immediately reacts. my point is, the lives of all of us and our children weigh and count more than the interests of the auto industry. we need concrete measures such as reducing carbon emissions, boosting renewable energy, clean fuels, new cleaner technologies. the european parliament called on the commission and the council to set more ambitious targets and, above all, to achieve them. a lot of things need to change in the way we live and consume. the european union must take the lead in shaping a great global alliance. the kyoto protocol, which some still refuse to adopt, is no longer enough.
mr president, the debate on the pnr agreement, swift and the secret cia hijackings and flights unfortunately highlights a philosophical divide between america and europe. the u.s. government believes that the fight against terrorism sanctifies all means. europe is not! however, the recent us elections now give the european union the opportunity to negotiate a new pnr agreement from a different position of power, with many more allies between the american people themselves and their congress. i hope he does. in order to achieve the objective of an agreement protecting fundamental rights, it should inter alia: firstly, to impose on the united states an explicit obligation to protect personal data fully and effectively, instead of the current unacceptable practice of a non-binding and deficient protocol. second, limit the amount of data currently being transferred to the us, much of which is little connected to the legitimate goal of identifying terror suspects. thirdly, it prohibits the use of data for purposes unrelated to the fight against terrorism. fourthly, to define explicitly and restrict the us agencies that will have access rights to the data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airlines are able to operate in the community. enough of this joke! finally, sixth, to provide that the european commission and the european parliament will be able to carry out continuous, direct and effective controls on the faithful implementation of the us obligations and that they will be able to stop any investigation that violates the purposes of use on the spot. the latter, moreover, a private company, swift, tells us that it demanded it - and succeeded in doing so - in its negotiations with america. it is inconceivable that 27 european prime ministers cannot negotiate and achieve this! if they do not, it is not 'couldn't' but 'didn't want' and we will all be judged for it.
the commission and council have confirmed in their statements that they will continue to meet the us demands by 'covering' all european citizens and handing over their personal data to us intelligence services. the representatives of the german presidency and the commission not only admitted that the new agreement with the united states on the transfer of personal data of air passengers travelling there would be no different from the existing one, but also cynically declared that they intended to legitimize the swift scandal by setting out the 'principles' for the transfer of data on the financial transactions of european citizens to the united states, so that it would now be 'legal'. as they have stated unequivocally, they will not make the big mistake of disrupting eu-us relations. as for the protection of fundamental rights, personal data and privacy, they will try to convince our american 'friends' to respect them, as they obviously do in iraq and afghanistan! it is demonstrated in the clearest possible way that the policies of the eu and the us are identical, are of the same reactionary and anti-democratic nature and are equally dangerous for democratic rights and popular freedoms, using the 'fight against terrorism' as the necessary pretext for restricting fundamental rights.
mr president, i would like to remind you that the european union's strategy for achieving the lisbon objectives by 2010 requires increased competitiveness, economic growth and, of course, a solution to the problem of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. this will not be achieved unless changes are made in the education systems, unless the system of higher education in particular is modernised. many countries are trying to change this, and this is indeed national policy. these changes either cause great turmoil among young people or, on the contrary, leave them indifferent. both cases are worrying for europe. of course, there is the problem of the constitution and the information relating to it. but perhaps, before the constitutional treaty, the people of europe - and especially the young - should be better informed about the changes that lie ahead, and for this both the european commission and we in parliament have a responsibility.
mr president, education is a fundamental right which cannot be restricted by any cultural, social, material or other reason. it is a prerequisite for the further development of the individual, especially for his economic and social integration. it is the responsibility of states to eliminate all inequalities and to create the conditions necessary to enable all citizens, men and women, to have access to education and to choose their career paths without discrimination of any kind. although the structure of the report is regrettably a little confusing, mrs flasarová's report is nevertheless full of suggestions for further promoting equality between women and men in the field of education. i congratulate the rapporteur and hope that the adoption of the report during the european year of equal opportunities for all will give even more weight to the european parliament's proposals to eliminate persistent stereotypes. in fact, despite the fact that equality between men and women is now a fundamental principle in our societies, gender stereotypes and prejudices against women have not disappeared and are responsible for segregation and discrimination that affect very early on the choice of studies, as well as the time and duration of studies. while gender stereotypes are still an undeniable barrier to access to education and to choice of studies, the perpetuation of certain models, in particular the majority presence of women in certain training courses, also leads to an imbalance that hinders women's progress. i am thinking particularly of the professions of nurse and teacher. schools play a very important role in restoring and promoting equal rights for girls and boys, regardless of their origins. the need to raise awareness among pupils and teachers of equality in all areas is also needed. the rapporteur rightly notes the important role of the media in shaping public perceptions and attitudes towards career development and training for young women. in conclusion, i would like to note that access to lifelong learning for women is also fundamental to their contribution to the knowledge society, as is the possibility of recognising atypical qualifications acquired during the various phases of life.
member of the commission. mr president, the community and the republic of gabon have negotiated and initialled, on 28 october 2005, a fisheries partnership agreement for a period of six years. the new protocol has been in provisional application since december 2005 under a decision of the council. on the date of its entry into force, this agreement will repeal and replace the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of gabon on fishing off the coast of gabon, which entered into force in december 1998. the financial contribution is fixed at eur 860 000 per year. of this financial contribution, 60% will allow annual financial support for defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in gabon, with a view to introducing responsible and sustainable fishing. this new protocol provides fishing possibilities for 24 tuna seiners and 16 surface long-liners, with an annual reference tonnage of 11 000 tonnes. the agreement is part of an important network of ec tuna agreements in the atlantic ocean off the western african coast. the commission considers that the agreement will give the community and gabon an appropriate legal and political framework for monitoring and controlling the activities of the eu fleet in the gabonese fishing area. it also allows the community to support the development of the sector in this country, for the mutual benefit of the parties.
the rapporteur. mr president, the european union and the republic of gabon negotiated and signed on 28 october 2005 a multiannual fisheries partnership covering european fisheries relations with the republic of gabon. the partnership agreement, which is accompanied by a protocol, has a duration of six years, while the technical and financial conditions for fishing activities have already started on 3 december 2005. the main objective of the partnership agreement, which goes beyond the narrow commercial framework of the previous bilateral agreement, is to develop a sustainable fisheries policy with responsible exploitation of fisheries resources, to strengthen coastal populations, to create small local freezing and processing industries through more general economic and scientific cooperation. the monitoring of fishing vessels by satellite is an important innovation in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. as the commissioner responsible for fisheries, mr borg, pointed out, this new agreement opens a new chapter in cooperation between the european union and the gabonese republic, as it will intensify its efforts to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in its waters. it should be stressed that agreements of this kind are particularly important as they promote economic development and cooperation with third countries. the agreement with gabon on fisheries is another development tool used by the european union to highlight its solidarity and willingness to cooperate further with developing third countries. i therefore believe that it is necessary to inform the european parliament in good time, as the body directly elected by the citizens, and not to call it a year later simply to ratify the decisions.
mr president, provisional agreement has already been reached on the revised text of the agreement on public procurement and the final agreement is still pending. i respect the need for negotiations to be conducted in secrecy, but do you not think, commissioner, that you are belatedly informing the european parliament of the union's priorities, demands and offers in the renegotiation of this important agreement? i believe that the basic principle of negotiation for the union should be reciprocity and the achievement of a balanced result between the trading partners. the balancing effect should not be at the level of theoretical commitments between trading partners on the part of other partners. it must be assessed in terms of the actual potential for exploiting the volume of notices subject to cross-border competition. has the commission carried out studies on the actual access of european firms to the market of other countries since the agreement has been applied? the united states, canada, south korea and japan, which are parties to the agreement, have already provided for preferential access for smes to the public procurement market. but, surprisingly, the union did not. i think that the european union should ask for a derogation in the context of the application of the agreement on public procurement to small and mediumsized enterprises. the request is reasonable, all the more so since our partners have already done so. smes are a key component of the european economy. an important source of growth and employment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they contribute to economic and social cohesion. we have an obligation to take the initiatives that will ensure their dynamic role.
in writing. we are radically opposed to the council's proposal on eu scientific cooperation with korea, because the orientation and fragmentation of research contributes to the profitability of monopoly business groups and capital in general. it is contrary to the real needs of the workers. it is in the interest of the people to oppose this reactionary choice for research and similar agreements, and altogether anti-worker politics and the eu itself, and to fight for radical changes so that research is oriented towards meeting the modern needs of the working people's family.
mr president, the turkish-armenian journalist hrant dink was recently murdered in istanbul by extreme nationalist circles. continued threats to his life forced author orhan pamuk to flee turkey and take refuge in the united states. the uncontrolled activity of nationalist circles and the alarming growth of nationalism is not only an internal problem of turkey, it is the concern of every european democratic citizen. it is a matter of solidarity with the democratic movement in turkey which is fighting under difficult conditions for a space of free expression and dignity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union and, in particular, the european parliament must take collective initiatives and take action. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i propose that a draft resolution be adopted by the house as a first concrete step in condemning nationalism and terrorism, which are the weak democratic fabric of turkish society.
mr president, five years after the introduction of the euro, the union still does not offer a level playing field, whether it is for credit cards, or for changing banks, or for transferring an account to another bank, or for any other banking transaction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the charges also vary dramatically, up to 400% for commercial transactions via credit cards. according to the commission, bank charges cost european businesses some eur 25 billion a year. the message i would like to send to the commission is whether it intends to exercise fully the powers conferred on it by community legislation; i mean in practice and not in declarations of a declaratory nature: the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the disposal of waste in the community is a good one, but it is not enough to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the common market. the five-step hierarchy, while not the ideal solution, is one step. it would therefore be wrong to undermine the progress and consensus we have achieved in the committee on the environment with amendments which upset this hierarchy and propose incineration as the best solution, even though this method is a considerable burden on the environment. the commission's legislative proposal is inadequate: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not recycled, and that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the recycling of waste is not carried out in a way that would be harmful to the environment. we must support the development of new policy measures to gradually reduce waste, to strengthen research into products that will be easier to reuse, recycle and use for other reasons.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. although progress has been made in recent years in waste management, there are still huge differences between member states in the volume of waste reused or recycled and in the way it is disposed of. in my country, for example, but perhaps to a lesser extent in other countries, a very large proportion of waste ends up in uncontrolled disposal sites, while reuse or recycling is poorly developed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is not harmful to the environment. reuse and recycling are at too low levels, and we have done little to reduce or even stabilise their overall production. the disastrous consequences will only be overcome if we propose, through the creation of national programmes, the prevention, that is, the reduction, of waste in the first place. consider that in greece in 2000 4.5 million tons of waste were produced and in 2006 the waste reached 6 million tons. we must therefore set up a hierarchy of objectives giving priority to reduction, reuse, recycling and recovery, and specifying a specific timetable for implementation, common to all countries.
in writing. in greece, there are as many as 3,500 uncontrolled landfills! about half of them are burning with serious environmental and public health impacts. the volume of waste increases, the larger volume is landfilled. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is reused and recycled, and that the illegal transfrontier shipment of waste is increasing. these are applicable in most member states and are rightly noted in the report on the 'thematic strategy for waste recycling'. unfortunately, instead of providing solutions to these social problems, the commission, through vague and distorted definitions and the absence of qualitative and quantitative objectives, is promoting the interests of the manufacturers and operators of combustion plants, that is, the big economic interests. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. at the same time, combustion acts as a counter-incentive to recycling. it is therefore confirmed that the capitalist eu by its very nature cannot implement a waste management policy based on the protection of the environment and public health, because this is incompatible with the unhindered profit-making activity of capital. we also disagree with the 'polluter pays' principle and the 'producer's responsibility' principle, since they are a tool to disempower the polluter, who can in fact pollute uncontrollably, at no cost to the economy.
in writing. meps from new zealand voted in favour of the bozkurt report which refers not only to the plight of women in turkey in all areas but also to the measures to be taken to adopt and implement the acquis communautaire in the candidate country. a continuous and multifaceted effort by turkey must be continued to defend women's human rights (elimination of violence, honour crimes, polygamy) and the elimination of discrimination in the family, in economic and social life and in general. we voted against amendment no 15. we believe that this amendment does not add any value to the resolution. it is a given that the equality dimension is part of the community acquis, which the candidate country must adopt and implement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gender equality provisions are applied in the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we recall that the opening of negotiating chapter 19 'social policy and employment', which is directly related to discrimination against women, requires turkey to develop and comply with specific objectives to promote equality.
mr president, energy means three things: nuclear, oil and gas. the nuclear power industry cannot be present in all the countries of europe and it is also 'vivere pericolosamente'. the oil is controlled by america: in a different way in iraq, in a different way in saudi arabia, in a different way in libya and in a different way in venezuela. which of the countries that have oil is near europe? i don't know. the game is controlled by the american. what 's left ? the gas. the gas, basically, here in our neighborhood, is russian. what is our relationship with russia? our relationship with russia is a disappointment, precisely because that's what the american wants. you saw what happened the other day with putin! there is a pipeline ready to be signed that does not go through an asian country, does not go through belarus or ukraine so that we do not have these adventures and blackmail. the burgas-alexandroupoli pipeline is bulgaria versus greek thrace. again, the american won't let bulgaria sign. we as europe, if we want our own energy, if we want gas directly from russia, why do we not push for this pipeline? and if we want our own oil, mr. president, there's plenty of it in the aegean. as much as it would help europe. but then again, here's the bug called turkey, controlled by america, that doesn't allow the export of aegean oil.
member of the commission. let me say that what you are referring to is a technical interruption. of course we have to keep talking to the russians in order to ensure that these interruptions do not last and so as to prevent them altogether in the future. i think that is for the time being what we are doing and i hope that this current energy dialogue will genuinely result in a building of trust in the future. we have just held a troika meeting with russia, and the questions relating to energy in general were discussed. by the way, president putin has officially said that he accepts the principles enshrined in the energy charter: accessibility, free and equal access to the markets, and particularly transparency. this is a matter of transparency.
member of the commission. the level of the dead sea is falling by one metre each year. the commission is strongly in favour of forward-looking projects which address the water needs and environmental needs of the region, and it supports all the initiatives which involve cooperation between the neighbours on specific issues, particularly on water, a very important resource in the region, in order to find mutually satisfactory solutions. but we also have to say that the construction of the ‘peace’ canal would be a huge undertaking, a huge endeavour, which could have a significant impact on the local environment without necessarily addressing the causes of these lower dead sea levels. we think, therefore, that a somewhat cautious approach is necessary. the commission notes that a feasibility study including an environmental and social impact assessment has recently been commissioned. a multi-donor trust fund has been established, with france, the usa, the netherlands and japan making firm commitments of support. the contract for the feasibility study is expected to be awarded in july of this year, and then it could last for over two years. the commission will then examine the outcome of the feasibility study very carefully when it is published and will consult with the european investment bank in the light of its recommendations. at that time, we will also keep parliament closely informed of our reflections.
i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your reply and for the attention and efficiency with which you have dealt with the development issues in the middle east region. it is very true that you say that a feasibility study is necessary for such a large project to know how much the european union will commit. i would like to ask you whether we have any statistical studies on the programmes that have been implemented so far to deal with the causes, because we see the situation of the jordan river and how much water is the cause of differences between countries in the region. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that.
member of the commission. yes, i can, because we decided in bringing forward our proposal that we would make absolutely no change to the obligations under the universal service obligation. that is left exactly as it is in the proposal that is currently before the codecision authorities.
mr president, commissioner, apart from the negative experiences of sweden there are also many member states reacting to the commission's haste and there are ten major historical postal operators who have written about the significant risks. i ask you directly: will you take these objections into account or will you dogmatically insist on the milestone of 1 january 2009 ? and a second question: what will you do to ensure that the concept of a universal postal service, accessible to all citizens, is not affected when we know that there are already problems in sweden with this?
member of the commission. i have repeatedly said in reply to questions that we will make absolutely no change to the requirements under the universal service obligation. when we brought forward our proposal, some people were lobbying for the universal service obligation requirements to be changed and watered down. i decided not to do so and the requirements on the universal service obligation are exactly as they are now. to the best of my knowledge, and as repeated by mrs kauppi, the impact in sweden has been entirely positive.
member of the commission. first, i would like to thank the honourable member for drawing our attention to the retail banking problems which consumers in greece are facing. we are aware of the concerns about the level of interest rates charged in greece and have responded to several written questions on the subject. in our answers, we have highlighted a series of initiatives that could have an impact on the level of retail interest rates in europe. they include initiatives on mortgage credit and consumer credit as well as the competition sectoral inquiries launched in june 2005 in the areas of business insurance and retail banking. these initiatives, together with others presented in the white paper on financial services policy for 2005 to 2010, should improve the competition and efficiency of retail financial services markets and provide practical benefits for european consumers. as to the honourable member’s specific question, we support initiatives that encourage and promote transparency in european financial markets. transparency is of particular importance for consumers, who need full and accurate information to be able to make an informed choice. in the competition area, the commission names banks against which a decision concluding an anti-trust infringement is addressed. however, there are no european rules requiring the naming of banks which the member states’ supervisory authorities have fined for unethical and illegal practices. we will continue to monitor the level of interest rates as our initiatives on retail financial services progress to ensure that the benefits from integration provide practical benefits for european consumers.
mr president, the illegal and abusive activities of the banks, as reported daily by the media, are becoming more widespread. that is one aspect of the problem. but there is another aspect: the european central bank raised interest rates twice in 2006. the same increases were made by the banks in the member states. what do we find in this case? that the gap between deposit and loan interest rates is widening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. what measures does the commission intend to take to reduce the gap between deposit and loan interest rates?
member of the commission. i think it is very important that we maintain the subsidiarity in our rural development programmes, as it provides a clear possibility for the member states themselves to decide which are the priorities. we are currently looking into the new programmes for the next financial period (2007-2013), and we will then have a very clear overview of the importance that is given to these specific areas. you are quite right that in some border regions there are specific interests, and i am quite sure that these will be taken care of by the programmes from the different member states.
member of the commission. undertakings that are active in the processing and marketing of agricultural products listed in annex 1 to the treaty may be granted ‘de minimis’ aid of up to eur 200 000 over a period of three fiscal years, provided of course that a series of conditions are fulfilled. before 1 january 2007, the ‘de minimis’ aid for processing and for marketing was governed by the provisions of commission regulation (ec) no 1860/2004 and limited to eur 3000 per beneficiary over any period of three years, within a maximum global ceiling established for each member state. processing and marketing of agricultural products have been included within the scope of the new regulatory framework because of the similarities between those activities on the one hand and processing and marketing of non-agricultural products, on the other. in the field of processing and marketing of agricultural products, ‘de minimis’ aid may be accumulated with state aid, provided that this does not exceed the maximum aid intensity laid down for measures supported by state aid. with the new and much more flexible rules for the ‘de minimis’ regulations, greece, like all other member states, will have more scope for granting aid in a much more rapid way, as the ‘de minimis’ aid will not have to be notified. there will be more advantageous conditions than those laid down in other rules applicable to state aid. this flexibility will enhance the development of the agricultural sector in member states within the european union.
i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on the proposed new regulatory framework. i think that the exemption regulation for small and mediumsized enterprises producing agricultural products is particularly important. could you shed more light on the points concerning the higher exemption thresholds for aid to small farms in remote areas and on the aegean islands, as well as on the points concerning the quicker granting of aid to farmers suffering losses due to adverse weather conditions?
member of the commission. if we had another half an hour, i would be very happy to explain the details and different elements of the fruit and vegetable reform. i am completely sure that we will be coming back to this on the basis of our new reform proposal, on which i had a very interesting and in-depth discussion with the agriculture committee. first of all, of course we want to make a reform that makes the sector stronger. why should we not try to get that solution? i am quite sure that what is in the proposal will deliver a stronger, much more market-oriented sector in future. the proposal also includes a strengthening of the producer organisations because, when we have been looking at the different member states to see how they have managed this producer organisation possibility, there are huge varieties. in some member states where the fruit and vegetable sector is strong, there are not so many producer organisations and the level of organisation from producers is very high indeed. that makes the sector strong in competition with the retail sector, and this will be crucial in the future. the proposal also includes a crisis management tool in the toolbox of the producer organisations. this is to make the producer organisations more attractive for producers to enter. we have also simplified the system with a new proposal because all the land for fruit and vegetables, for apples and for potatoes for consumption will now be included in the single farm payment system, which is a huge simplification because, today, there are different types of entitlements. so, yes, it will be an advantage for the sector, and i would be happy to come back and discuss this subject in more detail.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, as you said, the debate in the european parliament today on the revision of the marketing authorization for wine products opens a cycle of reflection on the future of one of the most important production, economic and commercial sectors in the european union. the reform must now focus on the following: the objective of keeping the european sector at the forefront of world competition, the simplification of community legislation, compatibility with other european development policies, product recognition, the proportionality of policies and the cohesion of all wine-growing regions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new products. the review of the sector must take account of the specific features of regional and national production, the structure and organization of the sector, its export potential and the fact that it is probably the only product where community legislation is applied to a large extent subsidiarily. the current policy and financial arrangements of the current mfa, which have often distorted the market and the competitiveness of the product, should be transformed so that the community budget of eur 1.3 billion from pillar 1 is allocated to policies which will in the long term aim at: - to maintain and strengthen the european vineyard, - to promote the trade and competitiveness of the sector at european and international level, - to adopt a territorial approach which now takes account of the protection of the environment and natural resources through the use of agricultural farming practices financed by the community, - to balance supply and demand by controlling production through the distillation of by-products and alcohol and to modernise the vineyard register, - to ensure that the policies of the pdo are compatible or adapted to those of the cap, - to ensure the international and interregional recognition of european quality wines, wine geographical indications and designations of origin whose classification must now take account of the protection of the environment and natural resources by means of financed agricultural farming practices, - to strengthen the scientific cooperation between all the sectors of the wine-producing sector, from the council to the european parliament, and - to strengthen the cooperation between all the agencies and bodies involved in the sector, from the commission to the council, and to the international organisations involved in the sector. the committee on agriculture proposes a number of measures to achieve these strategic objectives, including: - first, the transitional nature of the reform so that producers can adapt, abandon market support measures and move to structural measures, farming practices and commercial measures. - secondly, the integrated community policies should be integrated into national development and support programmes for the sector, according to the priorities and guidelines to be set by each member state after consultation with the national and regional authorities. the financing of these programmes, i.e. the national dossiers, should be decided at community level on the basis of uniform objective criteria, so as to avoid distortions and disparities between member states and regions. the commissioner, the wine market is in its most vulnerable and sensitive phase. it's at a dangerous turn. but your suggestions made you spin and drive the car off the road. you are driving european wine and winegrowers out of the market. wine spectator published a study showing that in 2010 the united states will be the largest consumer of quality and expensive wines. but you, with your aggressive accounting interventions in the uprooting, distillation and enrichment of wine, all measures which save you 760 million euros, would have accounted for much less wine, but would have driven european wine out of the market without this being justified by its development. in fact, there would be a radical redistribution of community resources in favour of rich and productive wine-growing regions at the expense of the corresponding regional and mountain regions, at the expense of the diversity of european wines, and a redistribution of the market in favour of imported wines. i would like to make a few comments on the amendments tabled in plenary. the views of colleagues are understandable, and i am sure they wish to express local and national interests and demands. the report, as voted by the committee on agriculture, is balanced and complete and can be brought to the table for the preparation of the legislative text. the weakening of the positions expressed in this report will weaken the position and credibility of the european parliament. we cannot shout for radical reform and, in effect, propose a radical status quo. we cannot blame the committee for liberalizing views and we can respond with nationalization. the commission's proposals are aimed at organizing the future and not at disorganizing what has been achieved in the past. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat, which is the subject of a proposal by the committee on agriculture, is a very good one. at the same time, the elimination of small and mediumsized farmers is being promoted in order to concentrate land, production and trade in a few hands. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the subject. what if europe is the world's leading producer, consumer and exporter of fine wines? the commission considers that the main issue is competition and the liberalization of wine and must imports at the expense of european production, which also reduces quality. this is why massive uprooting is being imposed with strong incentives and the sale of the rights of small and medium-sized winegrowers to the entrepreneurs of the sector, thus encouraging the creation of cartels. the argument is based on structural surpluses and the need to balance supply and demand on the community market, which would ensure better prices. this alibi is a sham. the liberalization of imports of must and wine from third countries and the legalization of their blending with community products, together with the recognition of oenological practices which use foreign materials in winemaking, thus transforming wine from an agricultural product into an industrial product, means facilitating the import of cheap wines and lowering quality. the european vineyard will shrink, small and mediumsized winegrowers will be eliminated and imports will prevail. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the measures are implemented in a timely manner. in greece over 200,000 acres were uprooted. the surpluses were temporarily reduced, but the cumulative imports brought the problem back and even led to distillation and higher quality wines. but thousands of small and medium-sized winegrowers were wiped out. the commission proposal cannot therefore be the basis for a debate, because it does not deal with the problem of viticulture. i would also like to say that i do not agree with today's report, because it basically proposes a longer transitional period for the new regulation with some amendments to the proposed measures to mitigate some of the effects.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not affected by the crisis. what is the commission's basic meaning? - first, no uncontrolled grubbing-up which can lead to the disappearance of valuable productive areas producing wine of valuable quality. - secondly, the maintenance of certain intervention measures - and here i am referring to distillation - which will be aimed at balancing the market and indirectly supporting producers' incomes. - thirdly, the creation of national dossiers containing a number of actions from which the member states may choose. however, in order to be effective, these files must be adequately funded. - fourthly, we must of course avoid transferring resources from the first to the second pillar, which would in effect weaken the cmo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. - first, we must first and foremost seek to maintain the high quality of community wine production. we'll be able to rely on this. - secondly, and more importantly, we must seek to promote community wines more intensively. market share doesn't grow with wish lists. only an aggressive policy can achieve the growth of consumption inside and outside the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, the enrichment of wines. for us - for me - it is not wine that has been produced by adding sugar and water. wine is a grape product and not a sugar-beet product. i know that the decision will be taken on the addition of sugar. if it is decided to add sugar, this must be indicated on the label. we must be honest and protect both the consumer and the producer.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not affected by the crisis, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs barzanti, for her report. wine, as an agricultural product, has always been central to our lives, our customs, our habits, our history, our joys and our sorrows. it is an integral part of our culture. it is therefore very positive that the views of the greek wine sector are also largely reflected in this report. at the same time, mrs bazelis' report sets out a clear position of parliament in the light of the new common organization of the market in wine envisaged by the commission, contrasting prudence and logic with the commission's hasty and, in my view, simplistic initial considerations. i ask that we vote on the report as it stands.
mr president, i have read mr fava's report carefully: he's telling real truths, and we should congratulate him on that. but whose fault is it that the situation has arisen? it is a situation created by the normandy landings and we have all accepted it. we gave the american the right to be the boss of europe, which continues today. these illegal flights are the certification of that fact. one twentieth of these illegal flights were to my country, greece. the prime minister of the country, when we told him, he snapped. when the district attorney went to the airport, they wouldn't let him in. and i ask you: the prime minister of greece can go to such an american base? mr barroso can get into the suda? we have a state within a state. we must put a stop to this american domination at some point. it's leading us to a dead end. he's leading us to a contest. against russia, which you see in the newspapers, the cold war started, against iran, against iraq. a bad precedent has been set that we must stop today. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must take action to bring things to a level playing field with the american people.
mr president, remarkably, the only governments that have to date officially admitted knowledge of participation in the secret cia renditions and flights are those of the united states and of bosnia and herzegovina – that is it! one therefore has to wonder whether the european council and member states will continue to stick their heads in the sand in the event that president bush makes good on his statement to keep utilising the same illegal operations whenever or wherever he sees fit. to avoid the future occurrence of these or similar illegal activities, practical steps must now be taken. the council should officially condemn these activities and enquire into member states’ and its own knowledge and participation. the commission should examine all agreements and arrangements with third country military and secret services to ensure that they respect human rights and fundamental rights. member states should establish official inquiries on the cia flights that landed on their territories, set the actions of secret services under the democratic control of the governments and instruct their airport authorities to check all suspicious private flights. finally, the european parliament should submit its report to the next european council meeting and ask that a discussion of its conclusions and recommendations be placed on the council’s agenda. no one in this chamber should be anti-american or pro-american, a defender or a detractor of any specific european country or government. we are all pro-european; we are members of the european parliament and, as such, we have an obligation to uphold european values and laws against whoever violates them – friend, foe or even ourselves. with this report, parliament has fulfilled its duty to europe’s citizens. it is now incumbent upon the council and the member states to do the same. (applause)
in writing. the report documents - and in one respect confirms - the revelations and the evidence that has come to light about the abductions, secret transfers, illegal detentions in secret prisons, torture, etc. by the cia on european soil. the kke meps abstained because they consider the attitude of the people's party and the socialist party, which were also in government, hypocritical, and which were and are aligned with the so-called us anti-terrorist campaign and agree with all these actions. today, under the weight of the public outcry over the revelations, they are trying to present themselves as defenders of a 'terrorist policy' and as defenders of human rights in order to save the 'lost honor' of the eu. we are in total disagreement and will not accept the creation of illusions among the people about the nature of the policy of 'counter-terrorism'. it is the pretext for the imperialists to build a gigantic machinery of repression throughout the world with the essential aim of consolidating their domination and striking at popular movements and resistance. in fact, at the same time that the european parliament is being shut down for human rights violations, authoritarian laws to crack down on movement and restrict demonstrations are being promoted throughout the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
in writing. i voted in favour of the fava report because it is a historic step in the fight against a criminal international pariah state. in addition to the enormous responsibilities of the european council, there are clear responsibilities for the governments of several member states. with this dark investigation by the european parliament now over, it is necessary to set up committees of inquiry in the national parliaments of the member states - unfortunately including greece - which appear to be involved in the illegal activities of the cia. the baton for the fight against the international pariah has now passed into their hands.
in writing. the results of the paris conference are a disaster for those who thought that conflicts of interest could be overcome, in view of the serious risk of global warming and the catastrophic effects on the peoples of the earth in the medium and long term. the resolution on climate change, however, while a text of concern, does not propose any substantive and concrete solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is clearly stated that the reduction of emissions will contribute to competition, to the achievement of the lisbon and kyoto objectives. it is precisely this policy of capital that is responsible for pollution and emissions and cannot be a criterion for its protection. and those that ratified the kyoto protocol have a cumulative significant deviation, while the united states continues to increase greenhouse gases along with china and india. the kyoto protocol therefore has little practical bearing on reducing emissions. the conclusion is that the eu of capital and its political representatives are destroying the planet with the pretext of environmental change and their only concern is how to make the most of the "market mechanisms" of kyoto.
in writing. the european parliament resolution on the transfer of passengers' personal data by european airlines (pnr) and the scandal of the handing over of swift customers' financial transactions to us security services reveal the true nature of the declarations of the political forces of the euro-road and euro-submission. the resolution calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu and the us are able to meet the challenges of the 21st century and to ensure that the eu and the us are able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative measures to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the subject. the new proposed agreements add to the revelations of cia criminal activity in eu member states, with kidnappings, secret detention and torture of "terror suspects", proving that, despite the hypocritical pronouncements, eu-us cooperation is deepening to curb fundamental rights and civil liberties under the pretext of fighting terrorism.
in writing. the joint resolution on the lisbon strategy of the european people's party, the social democrats and the liberals, adopted by the european parliament, once again highlights the convergence of the political voices of capital in promoting its strategic choices. the priority of eu capital is to promote effectively and quickly the guidelines of the lisbon strategy, which expresses its desire to increase its profitability in order to impose monopoly competition, through a barbaric attack on all the gains and rights of the working class. the resolution targets the capital strategy, which the nd government is implementing faithfully with the support of pasok, namely the inflow of capital into the health, welfare and education sectors through public-private partnerships, the placing of research at the service of monopolies, the liberalization and commercialization of energy, the dismantling of industrial relations and the dismantling of the social security system. it attaches particular importance to the adaptation of the education system to the needs of capital's competitiveness. the kke group in the european parliament votes against the resolution and calls on the working class to intensify its struggle against the whole of the eu's anti-people policy, its 'centre-right' and 'centre-left' governments, to demand permanent, stable work with rights, public social security and health, public free education.
the president of the council. it is important - and my colleague mentioned this earlier - that we address the causes of this migration. we must find solutions here. there will always be migration for different reasons, but the reason why there has been migration in many regions is the lack of prospects in these countries. so the first point is to eliminate the causes of migration in these countries. in addition, there are various other areas which have been mentioned before, such as the question of how to legalize people who want to work in europe for a certain period of time and how to start their work. finally, it is necessary to examine how people who are looking for work or economic existence can be integrated. but the most important point is the first approach, which is that flight is prevented by economic constraints, possibly also by human rights violations.
the president of the council. the demographic change in europe affects all the member states of the european union. a key indicator is the low or declining birth rates across europe. the changing demographic composition requires major structural changes in the context of a longer-term strategy to preserve the social cohesion of the generations and the competitiveness of the european economy. the european commission, in its communication 'the demographic future of europe: from challenge to opportunity' of 12 october last year, notes that economic growth has never been achieved in europe without population growth. against this background, addressing the demographic challenge is of particular importance in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the german presidency of the council is focusing on the question of how family-friendly policies can enable women and men to realise their actual wishes for children. experience from a number of member states has shown that policy action is both necessary and possible. a european alliance for families should serve as a platform for the exchange of views and experience between member states with key responsibilities in tackling demographic change. this alliance should also actively involve the social partners, civil society, academia and business. the central objective of the alliance should be to support member states through this sustainable exchange. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this should be done using existing resources and building on existing structures; the demographic forums, in particular those launched by the commission in its communication, are key reference points. the european commission has already set up a high-level group of experts on demography and the family. the alliance is complementary to the comprehensive initiatives at european level to promote equality between women and men, in particular the european pact for gender equality and the commission's roadmap for equality between women and men (2006-2010). only improved work-life balance will enable women and men to decide to have more children without sacrificing their careers. member states must work with the social partners and individual enterprises to reduce wage inequality and support parents in the early education phase. finally, a better reconciliation of family and working life is also a key objective of the european pact for youth, to open up access to vocational and social integration for young people.
mr. council president, thank you for your answer. i would like to know, however, what specific measures you intend to take in connection with the youth pact. given that family policy is a national policy and that each member state has its own policy, what common measures can you envisage to implement this intention to help families?
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs aubert, on her report on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the subject we are discussing here today is of particular interest in view of its impact on both the marine environment and legal fishermen. illegal fishing is one of the main reasons for the collapse of many fish stocks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. in addition to environmental damage, it has adverse economic effects, because it distorts competition between fishermen and affects the viability of those who operate in compliance with the legislation in force. but i'll look at this from the human side as well: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the fishing vessels are not caught illegally. illegal fishing means illegal and uncontrolled work. as you know, this is not a new phenomenon. however, the increasing demand for fishery products combined with the decline in available resources has led to an increase in the phenomenon, especially by vessels flying flags of convenience. the report by mrs aubert covers the most important aspects of the problem to be examined, such as: firstly, the responsibilities of the flag state; secondly, the responsibilities of the state in which the fish is landed; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. i believe that more action is needed to control and combat illegal fishing, both at european level and at the level of regional fisheries organisations. we have to act. we must protect the environment, legal fishermen, consumers, the law. it takes determination and rigor.
member of the commission. madam president, i simply want to add a few words of synthesis to a debate which i believe is extraordinarily important and relevant, around mr dos santos' report. we will certainly continue to talk about energy and we will continue to talk about energy in direct connection with climate change and the strategy that is needed to combat it. energy policy and environmental policy can no longer be separated; they are part of the same strategy. i think that from a debate like today's, and from other debates we have had and will continue to have on these issues, today's more focused on prices, in other cases with a focused dimension on other important aspects within this strategy, what we conclude - at least that is my conclusion, and i think most of the members of this parliament will share it with me - is that action at european level, a common european policy, is essential. this is an area where action at european level demonstrates, when discussed, and will demonstrate, when communicated to citizens, the added value of european union action for the years and decades to come. from the point of view of security of supply, from the point of view of the sustainability required of any energy policy, and from the point of view of the search for greater competitiveness in an environment in which energy prices, unfortunately, will not be as low in the future as they were in the past, from all points of view, action at european level, action by the european union is essential. i therefore conclude this debate, madam president, by joining the call made by many of you this morning for decisive action, first by the european council on 8 march and then by all the european institutions, to pursue objectives such as those set out in mr dos santos' report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the exercise of shareholder voting rights in companies (com (2005) 0685 - c6-0003/2006 - 2005/0265 (cod)) (a6-0024/2007)
the agenda has been drawn up with the agreement of the political groups and we must respect it. these are issues which we can look at in the context of our work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
in writing. the gue/ngl group welcomes all agreements that promote bilateral travel arrangements between the eu and the russian federation. these facilitate the travelling of russian citizens to the eu and vice versa. moreover, such arrangements are considered to be an important step forward, aiming at establishing better communication ties and creating political dialogue on a cultural, economical and political level. however the gue/ngl group is very much concerned about the ec-russia short-stay visa agreement because of its close political link to the ec-russia readmission agreement, which seriously undermines the protection and rights of refugees and immigrants, as well as their fundamental rights. the gue/ngl group is also strongly opposed to article 11 of the joint declaration to the agreement which defines "biometric identifiers" in diplomatic passports as a priority for ensuring a high level of document security. gue/ngl is also opposed to the fact that certain provisions of the agreement apply exclusively to certain categories or groups of people. this is considered discriminatory and the gue/ngl group stresses that the facilitation procedure for access visas should apply and be guaranteed equally to all citizens of the eu member states and citizens of the russian federation.
in writing. the eu employment guidelines, which were co-drawn up and co-decided by both the new democracy government and pasok earlier, in the framework of the lisbon strategy, inextricably link employment policy with the central objective of maximising the profits of the bourgeoisie, which has as a necessary prerequisite the enormous intensification of the exploitation of the working class. the eu's declarations of a supposed reduction in unemployment, etc. are aimed at deceiving workers, since it itself admits the failure of its policies, finding that the overall employment rate was 63% in 2003, much lower than the agreed target of 70%, despite the sharing of unemployment with temporary - flexible - forms of employment, which reached 60% of new jobs in the period 2000-2005. the future the eu is preparing for workers, based on its policy axes, is that of the 'employable', who from pre-school age will acquire fragmentary, opportunistic skills and training, will wander in various forms of semi-employment, with half or no work, social, insurance and pension rights, moving across the length and breadth of his country and the eu in search of work, constantly re-training for the needs of capital with disposable knowledge, working until old age or death, generating incredible wealth that will be harvested and exploited by the capitalist system
in writing. the european parliament's alleged protest against the orgy of cia activity is still not dry when the people's party, the socialist party, the liberal, green and other parties vote in favour of the report by the 'socialist' mep garcia, who is stepping up the eu's terrorist policy across the globe. the report also calls for the adoption of measures to protect human rights, which are now well known, but which are more reactionary in nature, such as: • intensifying militarization and 'preventive' repression inside and outside the eu by strengthening and increasing funding for eu rapid reaction forces - battlegroups - and other eu enforcement mechanisms - europol, frontex. • even greater 'cooperation' with imperialist powers such as the usa, israel, but also with organisations such as nato, the osce, etc., in the military field and in the field of information exchange. • open interference in the internal affairs of third countries by means of sanctions and coercive measures, the interruption of trade relations and subsidies, as provided for in the various eu financial instruments for manipulation. • the abolition of the right of veto in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. conclusion for the peoples: the more the eu invokes democratic rights, the more aggressive it becomes. the more it appears to be diverging from the us, the more closely it is working together to strike at countries and popular movements.
mr president, the overcharging of our mobile phones, according to recent data, has increased in the frantic race of corporate competition. the big loser in this scenario is the citizen. the commissioner reding and the committee on culture and education were right to decide to put an end to mobile phone surcharges in the member states by means of a regulation, calling for a reduction in charges in all european countries and a common price for roaming calls. recently, citizens in spain, in protest of roaming charges, decided to go on a white strike by not using their mobile phones on a certain day. their operation was a success. it was the only way to protest that companies could not behave in a similar way towards citizens, when profits have increased exponentially in recent years. it was a first positive step, mr president, and we, as the european parliament, are obliged to support it and at the same time applaud the determination of the spanish people. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
mr president, i shall now turn to environmental matters. everyone recognizes that the world's fisheries have been dangerously depleted. this is due to many reasons, but two are the main ones: one is pollution and the other is overfishing. i shall not mention the great problem of pollution; i would just like to mention one point: in the last 15 years alone, 55,000 tonnes of oil have been spilled in the mediterranean sea by various shipping accidents and have contaminated the coastlines. today i will be talking about overfishing. we used to have areas of the seas where human activity had not reached. now we fish everywhere. today, protected areas in the mediterranean are only 2%, while scientists stress that they should be 20%. it is an ecological necessity to designate protected areas, to extend the natura 2000 network to the seas. otherwise the future will be disastrous. in conclusion, i would say that the fishermen may be dissatisfied, but this measure i am proposing is in their interest. if we do not take action, we will soon have dead seas, and fishermen will have boats, they will have nets but no fish to catch.
the agenda includes the report by joel hasse ferreira, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social welfare services in the european union (2006/2134 (ini)) (a6-0057/2007).
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. mr president, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, in its opinion on corporate social responsibility, asked the rapporteur to take a holistic approach to the subject, because it believes that the role of companies is fundamental in respecting the values of the european union, wherever they do business, inside or outside, and whatever their size, small, mediumsized, multinational, etc. at the global level, the fundamental rules of the international labour organisation are being promoted through corporate social responsibility. they may, on a voluntary basis, carry out support activities for women's human resources, while respecting national and community legislation on gender equality and non-discrimination, both in the recruitment process and in the process of promoting or involving women in management bodies, in boards, when promoting the planning of actions for corporate social responsibility. we congratulate the european commission on the strengthening of the new alliance and we do not believe that it will be a repetition of the multilateral forum. a good practice map, voluntarily signed by enterprises, would help to promote actions for the living and working environment and facilitate a better combination of work and family life alongside cultural and educational offerings. we also call for the promotion and reward of good corporate social responsibility practices, particularly in the area of gender equality. but not with a mandatory report from the companies. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mr howitt, on his systematic work and constructive proposals. the concept of corporate social responsibility seems to be more relevant than ever. on the one hand, the dramatic change in the climate, largely due to the uncontrolled use and consumption of natural resources, and on the other the alarming expansion of poverty, combined with the reversal of the demographic pyramid, appear as results of the attempt to degrade work and overturn social acquis. however, if we wish to give meaning to this concept, at least three conditions must be met: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, it must be recognised that companies must assume the responsibilities they have towards the environment, society and workers, which arise from their economic activity, without this of course being seen as a sacrifice on their part. thirdly, priority should be given to supporting investment in the knowledge of workers and in the development of new technologies, particularly those which are more environmentally friendly. both of these areas should be seen as key pillars of corporate social responsibility. finally, this is a very good opportunity to demonstrate that competitiveness should not be linked to labour costs but to respect for environmental balances, the promotion of decent working conditions and social progress in general.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a discussion which clearly shows that the issue of equal opportunities remains one of the most important issues in the european union. i was very pleased to see that virtually all the proposals that were put forward are in some way embedded in the plan to promote equal opportunities for men and women. i also note that it is entirely justified to conclude that, despite the existence of the equal pay directive for 30 years, there is still no equal pay. equal pay is a more complex issue than the issue of a single directive. it's a problem of prejudice, it's a problem of education, it's a problem of segregation in the labor market. this is why the european commission has decided to make equal pay one of its main themes. that's why we've had studies done, that's why we're designing communications that try to actually intervene or act on this problem in a way that produces tangible results. the ones we have so far are not very good. i also very much appreciate the strong emphasis on the line between family and work life. i have noticed that we have already started the first steps and it is clear that harmonization is not just a technical arrangement of the working environment, that it is a broader problem and that in general it is a debate about the fair distribution of life responsibilities between men and women. we have a long way to go on this journey. i find that barcelona's strategy, for example, is not as strong as expected. the empowerment of women in leadership positions was also emphasised. yes, this is very important too. on the one hand, the commission has been criticised for having very few women in the climate change and energy group. i would just like to point out that the current commission has eight commissioners and the secretary-general of the commission is a woman. these commissioners have important portfolios in their hands, so there is no question of not making progress. the situation of women in turkey was also highlighted. i want to stress in general that i am very strongly committed to ensuring that equal opportunities, which is part of the copenhagen criteria, is taken as seriously as it can be. this means that a country that does not achieve equality of opportunity, in my view, cannot join the european union for that reason. to the debate on cultural differences, to the debate on sexual mutilation and to the debate on individual cultural circles, i want to emphasize that human rights and equal opportunities, in my judgment, take precedence over any folklore or cultural approach. and it's up to us to use sensitive methods to ensure that those rights are fulfilled. as regards affirmative action, firstly, i think that european law allows it, and secondly, i think it is inappropriate to formulate it as positive discrimination. because supportive, affirmative action only takes away an unfair burden and balances opportunity, not favors. there has been a lot of talk about quotas, and i know of many cases where a woman has not been accepted into a certain position just because she is a woman. although otherwise, she met all the criteria. so i think the question of affirmative action is also a question that needs to be looked at and opened up. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the rapporteur, mrs sartori, once again. because this report, which is a report of our own initiative, is a report which contains a number of important elements which we will certainly use in our joint efforts to promote equality between men and women as much as possible. thank you. thank you.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the committee on legal affairs and the rapporteur, mrs lévai, for the draft report on the commission recommendation of 18 october 2005 on the collective management of copyright and related rights across borders for legal online music services. i would like to emphasise that the commission's recommendations were initially motivated by the concerns of the authors. authors, composers and music publishers have informed the commission that they do not receive any income from the online exploitation of their works. however, our analysis has made it increasingly clear that managing the use of protected works online by territory is too complex, especially in the digital environment. given the complex relationships between collective management organisations that manage the same rights separately in each territory, it appears that revenues do not reach authors or other rightholders. the commission's recommendation therefore aims to ensure that authors, composers and music publishers receive a fair share of online revenues. we also believe that the licensing system can be improved to facilitate the development of new online services while protecting and genuinely promoting the interests of rights holders. to be clear, the recommendation does not represent a specific licensing model, but introduces the principle that rightholders should be free to choose the most appropriate and efficient online rights manager or licensing platform for the management of their online rights. it also aims to ensure that those rightholders generate income from the online exploitation of their musical works. this will ensure that the value of the works of rightholders is fully protected. this is not a race to the bottom, downward. this focus on the interests of rightholders is also reflected in the provisions of the recommendation concerning the governance of transparency, dispute resolution, the liability of rightholders and the fair and balanced representation of all categories of rightholders on the boards of collective management organisations. the commission welcomes the strong support for this draft report from parliament. while we are still monitoring the impact of the recommendations and seeking stakeholder input in this area, it is already apparent that several initiatives have been launched to strengthen governance. for example, in 2006, the world music publishers' trade association and the umbrella organisation of european collective management societies adopted a joint declaration setting out agreed rules for online rights management. various rightholders, including smaller collective management organisations and publishers, have expressed enthusiasm for the business opportunities offered by the recommendation on online music services. the commission sees the licensing of online services for the whole of the european union as an opportunity to promote the value of music and thus to promote different cultures and their musical works across the eu. the creation of new markets for specific music genres and the finding of a genuine online audience will undoubtedly contribute to the promotion of european cultural diversity. e draft report calls on the commission to submit a proposal for a directive on this issue. however, the commission would like to note that the online market is still developing and we must be particularly careful not to limit its potential by taking an overly rigid approach. and, as i said, we are only now examining the situation in the period after the recommendation was adopted. however, i can assure members that our aim is to ensure that rights holders receive the revenue from their creative activity and that rights users have the necessary licences, in a simple and straightforward way. we believe that this is a crucial issue if we are to promote and maintain europe's cultural diversity. the commission will of course keep parliament informed of this.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. mr president, i should first like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mrs lévai, for her excellent cooperation and the result of her important work on the report on collective management of copyright. the establishment of the committee is an important step towards a future convergence of the different practices in the 27 member states. i think that close cooperation between rights managers should be maintained for the benefit of all parties. in the digital age in which we live, effective protection of copyright and related rights is of paramount importance to limit piracy and ensure that royalties are returned to the right holders. in its opinion, the committee on culture takes a view on the protection and collective management of intellectual property rights by music authors, i.e. songwriters, composers and performers. the current regime for online services is considered to be insufficiently effective for both rights users and rights holders. there are many cases where television and radio stations do not pay their dues for the repertoire they use in their various programmes. all rightholders, whether authors, composers, publishers, record producers or performers, must be treated equally. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the european communities' financial interests in connection with the processing of personal data by the community institutions and bodies is a step in the right direction, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our presidency programme in the field of social policy is based on the theme 'taking demographic change as an opportunity and promoting equal opportunities for all in work and society'. the demographic change is a fact that affects all the member states of the eu. but we can reverse this demographic trend by working to create the right conditions for people to actually realize their existing child-rearing desires. but an essential condition for being able to work is the reconciliation of family and work. the return to work after a family break must be made possible, as must the coexistence of education and work for both parents, because an analysis of european comparisons shows that countries with a well-developed childcare system have a higher rate of employment of women in general, and especially of mothers with several dependent children. the birth rates are particularly low where the female employment rate is low. highly qualified women, on the other hand, are more likely than other women to delay having children or to avoid having children altogether. while the average level of employment for men increases with the number of children they have, mothers reduce their working hours. we must therefore work in the member states to improve the conditions for equal opportunities for women and men in working life and to create good conditions. the need for action in this area is great. this is why germany, the first presidency since 2002, has made childcare a priority of its presidency of the council. a first important step towards improving the provision of childcare facilities was taken when the heads of state or government decided at the barcelona european council in 2002 that member states should achieve a minimum provision by 2010. at least 90% of children between three years of age and the age of compulsory schooling and at least one third of children under three years of age should have access to care. this objective was taken up in the european employment strategy in 2003 and reaffirmed in the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs (2005-08). there are countries where these quotas are already being exceeded - in some cases by a considerable amount. for the offers for children under 3 years of age, there are about seven member states which meet or exceed the targeted quota of 33%. the other countries are below this and some of them have a very low supply. similarly, the shares of member states above and below the barcelona target of 90% for children from three years of age up to the age of school entry are very high. this means that many member states will have to significantly step up their efforts to achieve the barcelona objectives. the joint employment report 2006/2007, which the council adopted a few weeks ago, on 22 february, addresses this point by unequivocally criticising the slow progress of research in the field of childcare. the lack of progress in childcare could hamper another common objective of the european employment strategy, namely to increase the employment rate of women to at least 60% of the eu average. it is therefore of paramount importance that the european council of 8 and 9 march endorsed the european alliance for families. this alliance will give new impetus to the implementation of the agreed targets on childcare and women's employment. this alliance will also be the subject of the epsco council discussions on 30 may this year. the european alliance for families aims to improve family-friendly living conditions in the european union. it will provide a platform for the exchange of views and information between member states. it is closely linked to the actual implementation of equality, as improved family and work-life balance leads to greater equality of opportunity in working life. expertise also shows: if we consistently go our way, creating better conditions for young parents, expanding childcare and early education, systematically developing family-oriented work structures with the economy, we will have a positive impact precisely in the period that is particularly difficult demographically and economically, namely the period from 2020 to 2030. the question of reconciling family and work is not just a matter for the state, but also for the economy. children are our future - they are the workers, the consumers, but also the parents of tomorrow. the need to take account of the needs of families must be part of the company's strategy and culture. flexible working hours and parttime models for both mothers and fathers should then be standard across the board. it would be helpful if companies were to recognise that it is also economically viable to take account of the needs of families. because only mothers and fathers who know that their children are well looked after during the day can concentrate fully on their work. the state and the social security institutions also benefit from a family-friendly attitude in the enterprises: the more mothers and fathers are able to participate in working life, the more taxes and social contributions are paid. but i also want to make sure that we do not lose sight of the children when we look at the state and the economy. their welfare should be the focus of europe. children need a high-quality supply of learning, cognitive and social skills. a good and demanding day care is an important, necessary and valuable complement to the family education that parents seek. our aim must not be to provide care for the poor! this is also important from another perspective: in many countries we are faced with the reality that not all children in the family can be optimally supported. many children grow up without siblings. these children find in the day care centre and with the day-care provider a safe place, stable relationships and a wide range of stimulation, for example for language acquisition. for children, research from around the world shows that support and education in a day care centre or a day-care worker is a win. i am sure that with your support we will have gained momentum in these areas and have also started an important discussion in the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been five years since the european council set the target for the availability of care for pre-school children in the context of the european employment strategy. in march 2002, the barcelona european council agreed that member states should aim to be able to provide care for at least 90% of children up to the age of 3 years of compulsory schooling and for at least 33% of children under 3 years of age by 2010, with a view to removing obstacles to women's participation in the labour market. in the european pact for gender equality adopted in march 2006, the european council reiterated the need to achieve the stated objective. but the goal was far from being achieved. providing affordable, easily accessible and quality childcare is essential if europe is to meet its growth and employment agenda and gender equality. childcare is essential to unlock the productive potential of europe's workforce, it enables women and men with young children to enter and remain in paid employment, while improving their quality of life and that of their children, it removes a key barrier to people's free choice of work-life balance and it offers children an excellent start to life. affordable and quality childcare is a prerequisite for achieving genuine equality between women and men. women continue to bear greater childcare responsibilities, while women continue to face adverse differences in employment, unemployment and wages compared to men. providing a high standard of childcare that is widely available helps women to gain economic independence, and also allows single parents, most of whom are women, to stabilise their standard of living. child care also helps to address the demographic problem of declining birth rates. one factor that influences women and men in deciding how many children to have is whether affordable, accessible and quality childcare is available. however, the number of children should not be a barrier to participation in the labour market. the european commission is committed to supporting the achievement of the barcelona objectives. in last year's roadmap for gender equality 2006-2010, the commission committed to supporting the barcelona targets on childcare and the development of other care facilities through the structural funds and the exchange of good practice. the current rules for the structural funds already allow for such use. in this context, the commission pointed out that the services and structures were too slow to adapt to a situation where both women and men were employed and where women continued to be the main carers of children and other dependants and were perceived as such. the lisbon agenda for growth and jobs is the follow-up to the barcelona objectives. the december annual progress report shows that, although some member states have developed childcare facilities, progress towards the barcelona objectives remains slow. the commission therefore invited member states to focus in 2007 on increasing the availability and affordability of quality childcare in line with their own national targets. in its annual report on equality between women and men for 2006, published last month, the commission called on member states to step up their efforts to meet the barcelona objectives and to promote the development of care for the elderly and disabled. it also stressed the qualitative aspects of childcare and pointed out that the needs of families and full-time working parents required appropriate opening hours and a flexible approach. the commission welcomes the creation of the alliance for families announced in the european council conclusions. the alliance for families will become a platform for member states to exchange not only good practice but also attitudes and knowledge on family-friendly policies. the commission also called on the member states to make full use of the programmes co-financed by the structural funds that cohesion policy has newly offered them to promote gender equality, including improving access to affordable childcare. the commission considers that childcare should be seen as an essential part of a holistic approach to reconciling work and private life. men should be encouraged to share equally in their responsibilities in family life. in particular, incentives to take up leave entitlements and the development of innovative and adaptable working time schedules should help in this regard. the need for services related to the care of school-age children and other dependants should also be addressed. i am pleased to announce that i intend to present a communication on childcare in 2008 in which i want to propose concrete steps to improve the accessibility, quality and affordability of childcare. i am convinced that this will be a major boost for the member states to meet the barcelona objectives.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. mr president, i welcome the commitment made by both the commission and the council to better reconcile family and working life and to increase the availability of affordable childcare services. however, i cannot hide my disappointment at the very mixed results achieved following the barcelona council in 2002. as your employment directorate-general's study in september 2005 found, the lack of affordable childcare facilities is not only an obstacle to the economic and social integration of economically disadvantaged families, but also and above all a major obstacle to equal participation of women and men in the labour market and to a balanced division of tasks between women and men in family life. however, a very large number of studies show that europeans cannot have the children they want or as many as they want. in addition, taking into account the changing needs and requirements of the labour market, member states should work towards greater flexibility and diversity in childcare services in order to broaden the range of choices and to respond to the specific preferences, needs and circumstances of parents and families. some people want to take custody of their children themselves; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. as regards men and women who provide care for dependants on a permanent or temporary basis, they should enjoy a recognised status conferring rights, including social security and pension rights, and should, like those in paid employment, be able to benefit from lifelong learning in order to be able to meet the requirements of the labour market.
member of the commission. i am never satisfied, especially when it comes to environmental issues. there is always more to be done. we are doing quite a lot with your help, but we can do a lot more. on the specific question of whether schools in the european union will include programmes proposed by the european union in their curricula, there was a major debate on this issue in the late nineties, when it was decided that the matter should be governed by subsidiarity and was for member states to determine. of course, we can do more because environmental awareness is of extreme importance. you can see what is happening with climate change, now that people around the world and in the european union have become more aware of the threat it poses, because of newspapers and the media, and the reports available on the subject, such as the turner report, the ipcc report, and various reports by other scientific organisations like nasa, and because of the work done by the european parliament, by the commission and the european union. as a result we have been able to introduce various measures and to reach agreement. last week’s historic agreement on the energy and climate change package will give us not only a leading position in the world in fighting climate change, but, most importantly of all, will enable us to be more effective in persuading other countries to come on board after 2012. children are very important, not only because, as you said, they develop good habits, but also because they influence their parents. so it is really a very good investment to make children more aware of environmental issues.
the commission's vice-president a conference of european ministers responsible for higher education, to which the honourable member refers, was held in bergen on 19 and 20 may 2005. the press release of this conference does not provide a list of universities whose diplomas would not be recognized. the same applies to the bologna process as a whole, even though it developed outside the community framework. more generally, as regards the academic recognition of diplomas awarded in other member states, the commission recalls the provisions of article 149 of the treaty according to which the organisation of the education system is a matter for the member states. such recognition shall be governed by the national law of each member state. the commission also recalls that an information network on the recognition of diplomas naric , with offices in each member state, was set up with the contribution of the european union. interested citizens can contact these offices for reliable information on the nature and value of the diplomas awarded by each european university. finally, on 5 september 2006, the commission adopted a proposal for a recommendation establishing the european qualification framework (eqf). although not binding, this proposal, which is currently being discussed in the council and parliament, calls on the member states to establish the correspondence between the different levels of certification. this is the answer mr figuel has prepared for you, and i want to thank you again for your question.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for your reply, which i do not agree with in principle, but i do note the need for a clearer timetable for the implementation of the bologna programme and the bergen agreement. but let's consider what you said! so given the commission's proposal to create a european certification framework, albeit without legislative force, on a voluntary basis, what is the timetable for this and what will be the consequences for countries that do not comply? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to give us a statement on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission's vice-president professor balazs is currently preparing two analyses concerning stuttgart-ulm and munich-salzburg, as he considers that an integrated approach to the construction of these sections is currently lacking. the stuttgart-ulm section is currently under planning and has now been completed. however, there were delays due to the lack of clear positions on possible alternative routes from the three german parties - the federal state, the land and deutsche bahn - and also due to insufficient public funding. peter balazs is in constant contact with the german parties involved, he is monitoring the development of the project and it is true that we are now waiting for a clarification of the german position to determine the community position. i would like to point out, mr posselt, that this is a matter which is of particular concern to me. i am also preparing to write a letter to the german and austrian operators concerning the timetables between these two countries. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, when i confirmed my determination on this very important matter.
the commission's vice-president it is very difficult for me to answer on such a specific point. i suggest that you reply in writing, mr president, because i have to take stock with mr balazs of the vienna-bratislava section. in the meantime, i can tell you that mr balazs is also very attentive to this matter and has made the necessary contacts with the austrian and slovak governments. with your permission, however, i would prefer to answer in writing to avoid being too vague.
the commission's vice-president firstly, mr leichtfried, parliament must adopt the rules for financing the transeuropean network, which i believe should be done shortly. we shall then call on the various member states to make proposals. when we have all these proposals together in the autumn, we will be able to set the first priorities, taking into account the commitments made by the individual member states. it is true that if i had had a budget of 20 billion euros for the period 2007-13, the task would have been easier than with the 8 billion euros i actually have. i think, however, that where there is a will on the part of the member states, we can support that will. but the decision is essentially up to the member states and that is why you must ensure that the proposals of the various governments give priority to these transeuropean networks. that is all i can say in the present state of affairs.
the commission's vice-president the commission has taken note of the decision of the arbitration panel of 13 july 2006 on the public service obligations and the decision of 6 december 2006 on the relocation of olympic airway to athens spata international airport. the commission shall cooperate with the greek national authorities in this respect in order to establish the legal status of its allowances and the costs covered in the light of community law, including past decisions. it is for the greek authorities to demonstrate to the commission that the amounts in question have not been taken into account in previous state aid decisions and are fully compatible with community law. the commission further rejects the unsubstantiated claims concerning its previous decisions, which were taken after thorough and detailed investigations and after all interested parties were invited to comment by publication of a notice in the official journal of the european union. that is my answer to the question put by mr papadimoulis.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the greek court awarded the sum of 550 million euros, yes or no? tell me clearly! does the commission intend to challenge the final judgment of the court of justice? can the commission demonstrate that the state's debts to olympic airways have been offset in the past? and what do you mean by " baseless allegations " ? do you believe that the greek court was based on unfounded allegations? who do you mean by "baseless allegations"?
the commission's vice-president the important thing, mr papadimoulis, is to say first of all that this difficult matter of olympic airways is being dealt with with all the necessary rigor. i would like to emphasize this point, because there is no reason why this matter should not be dealt with with the utmost rigor. it is true that there have been claims in the press about the previous decisions, and these claims questioned the validity of these decisions, even though they were taken after thorough investigations. the commission treats greece as it treats all other member states. and olympic airways should be treated the same as any other airline. by commission decision of december 2002, greece was obliged to recover an amount of aid identified in the decision, which it did not do. another negative decision of september 2005 found that additional aid had been granted to olympic airways. since no further recovery measures have been taken by greece since then, the commission was obliged to initiate legal proceedings against greece. if the greek authorities comply with their obligations, this action will not be pursued. the financial problems facing olympic airways are unfortunately not isolated and are not the consequence of the commission's actions, in particular the proceedings before the court. the commission simply ensures that the community competition rules are respected. i can answer that by assuring you that i have instructed my services to deal with this matter fairly and with all the necessary rigor.
madam president, commissioner, the proposal for a regulation - i stress this! - the proposal for regulation no 659/1999 provided that national actions against the national act seeking the aid cannot suspend its recovery. by contrast, article 14 (3) (b) of regulation no 659/1999 does not provide for such a requirement. what is the basis, then, for the commissioner's view that proceedings before national courts do not have a suspensive effect in state aid matters?
the commission's vice-president in the face of court decisions, i can only confirm your willingness to apply community law. the court's decision is a new element which we are now analysing and greece must demonstrate the compatibility of the measures it has taken with community law. i can tell you that i am very careful to respect community law in this area and that my concern is, i repeat, that it be applied rigorously and fairly.
the commission's vice-president before i pass the baton to mr potočnik, i should like to clarify, in reply to a final question from mrs kratsa tsagaropoulou, the difference between the priority projects for transeuropean networks and the transnational axes. in 2004, the european parliament and the council adopted a decision amending the guidelines for the trans-european network for the territory of the european union at 27. this policy concentrates investment on 30 priority transnational projects and areas. as you know, madam president, the ten budget amounts to 8 billion euros and this amount will not allow the co-financing of all the priority projects in their entirety. the budget must therefore be concentrated on cross-border sections and bottlenecks, i.e. projects with the highest european added value. the communication identifies five main axes linking the european union to its neighbours. these five axes do not alter the priorities set by the european transport networks within the european union. the communication follows the logic of the european neighbourhood policy. this policy has been designed to avoid the emergence of new fault lines between the european union and its neighbours, either in the context of accession or in the form of closer cooperation. euro-mediterranean cooperation in the transport sector was identified as one of the priorities for cooperation in the euro-mediterranean partnership from the very beginning of the barcelona process. it drew on the euro-mediterranean transport forum and its working groups. a budget of around eur 200 million is currently allocated to financing the actions developed in the framework of euromed/transport cooperation. this includes pre-feasibility studies for 10 infrastructure projects on the euro-mediterranean transport priority axes. the total cost of the projects proposed under the mediterranean cooperation framework amounts to eur 23 billion by 2020 for the mediterranean region. of course, national budgetary appropriations remain essential for the transport sector, particularly for the maintenance of the existing network but also for critical investments, particularly at cross-border level. the community will continue to support these actions as in the past, through technical assistance, through assistance in improving administrative capacity. in some cases, support could include investments in critical infrastructure, including cross-border, or key horizontal measures. at this point i would like to remind you that the new mandates of the european investment bank provide for a community guarantee which should enable the same european investment bank to grant up to 8 700 million in loans over the period 2007-2013 to the mediterranean countries. i repeat, 8.7 billion in loans! it's not insignificant. in addition, most national indicative programmes already provide for allocations for interest rate subsidies to facilitate the granting of loans by the european investment bank or other development banks. the commission also intends to set up an investment fund for the european neighbourhood policy with €700 million in grants over the period 2007-13. the fund will support loans from the european investment bank and other european development banks, particularly in the transport, energy and environment sectors. this close cooperation between the commission and the european investment bank and other donors must be strengthened both in the regional and global context. public-private partnerships are a promising tool for implementing infrastructure projects that are economically, socially and environmentally viable. in implementing the package proposed in the communication, the commission will adopt a step-by-step approach to strengthen the framework for cooperation between the european union and neighbouring countries. from 2007, the commission will launch preliminary discussions with neighbouring countries with a view to jointly defining the structured and effective coordination frameworks that should allow for active and synchronised implementation of measures along the axes. i hope that the commission will make a concrete proposal as a result of these discussions. i also hope to be able to present a mid-term report in autumn 2007.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the information he has given us both on the european union's strategy and on the responsibilities of the partner countries and their participation. i would like to ask you, commissioner, if you have any suggestions as to the priorities to be set for all these projects, or if they will all be put together and you will give us a report in the autumn on the overall progress made.
member of the commission. that is another dimension of the question which we have to look at very carefully. mobility of people is crucial for the success of research carried out in europe or in any part of the world, because the fertilisation of minds is achieved through the mobility of minds. of course nobody prefers having people educated in his own country – at least to secondary school level – who then leave and live outside their countries. if that happens, clearly we must establish close links with the people who are living outside our countries, for example in the united states. we have a special programme in fp7 which is doing exactly that. so creating networks with the people outside, so that they are not actually lost, is of extreme importance. but still, the brain drain is a question which we have to address very seriously. in europe recent data is not too alarming. of course there are differences between the member states, but in many of the countries, many very well-established universities are reporting that there is also a huge influx of students into the european union. i recently visited india, and learned that 17 000 students come from india to the united kingdom every year to study on european soil. i think that kind of flow is good and important, and we have to promote it. however, brain drain is of course another issue. we have to pay attention, to it, but there are many reasons behind it, for example the attractiveness of the career, social portability, pension rights, many of the things which are interconnected. there is no simple answer to that type of question.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam president, the commission is aware that counterfeiting of medicines - as the honourable member has pointed out - is a global problem and can have serious health consequences. we are therefore following this problem very closely and i cannot fail to tell you that i am extremely concerned about it. the commission has developed a general strategy against the counterfeiting of medicines in the european union and, in view of the international dimension of the problem, has ensured that it is linked to and complements the activities of international partners, such as the world health organisation and the council of europe. the community legal framework allowing the authorities to detain counterfeit medicinal products introduced into or found on the community market consists of community legislation on medicinal products, on the conduct of customs authorities and on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. the main responsibility for enforcing the existing rules lies with the member states. over the past five years, member states have detected 27 cases of falsified medicines in the legal supply chain and 170 cases in the illegal supply chain on the eu market. this may not seem like a huge number, but the seizure of counterfeit medicines by customs at external borders also indicates a significant increase in recent years. statistics for 2005 show that customs at the eu's external borders seized 560 000 counterfeit medicines. a first analysis of member states' 2006 figures has shown that in 2006 more than 1.5 million counterfeit medicines were estimated to have been seized by customs. that's a dramatic increase. in its communication to the council, the european parliament and the economic and social committee on a customs response to recent developments in counterfeiting and piracy, the commission presented an action plan containing a series of concrete measures to combat this increase. two of the most important measures have already been taken: the creation of an electronic system for the rapid exchange of risk information on novel counterfeits between customs authorities and the establishment of a system for companies to provide customs authorities with information on counterfeits needed for countermeasures. in addition, in march 2006, the commission issued a warning against the sale of counterfeit medicines on the internet in order to raise public awareness of the problem. in this warning, the commission publicly announced that it would analyse the situation as part of a project and, in cooperation with the member states, the european medicines agency and international partners, examine whether intervention was necessary to protect public health. the project will, inter alia, deal with the trafficking of counterfeit medicines via the internet. the commission will build on this analysis, which has already begun, and develop policy solutions to close any gaps in the legislation. if necessary, we will have to amend european pharmaceutical legislation. these solutions will of course be based on impact assessments, but i can assure you that we will do everything we can to prevent counterfeit medicines from entering our markets and endangering people's health in the future.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam deputy, i can only agree with everything you've said. the project i have mentioned is intended to complement the ongoing international actions already undertaken by the world health organisation and the council of europe and to develop a telemed solution for europe, while the project dealing with parallel trade is particularly concerned with aspects relating to patient safety. to really solve the problem, we need to know exactly what the situation is. we have therefore asked the member states for the necessary information. i think that by the end of this year we will have all the necessary information together and then we can make decisions. what you said about the situation in the developing countries, i agree with you. this is a deeply scandalous situation. we had a debate here in the european parliament last year, and i said that we are doing everything we can to help developing countries build the structures and make sure that the medicines that come to their market also meet international standards. the problem is that in many developing countries, there are simply no administrative structures in place to adequately control this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank him for his work.
vice-president of the commission. this is a subject that particularly concerns me. the european economy is not as dynamic as it could be, it is not creating as many jobs as it could create, and that is primarily because we do not have enough businesses. we do not have enough enterprises because we do not have enough people in europe who are willing to take entrepreneurial initiative and take entrepreneurial risks. so the most important answer to your question is that in our societies itself, there needs to be an understanding that it's the companies that create jobs, that there needs to be entrepreneurs who have the courage to do that, and that we need to accept entrepreneurship as socially responsible, socially useful. so we need to make entrepreneurship more socially acceptable. the commission has developed a large number of initiatives in this area over the last two years. the european entrepreneurship agenda published a progress report last year, and you can see from it that we have greatly increased the funding for community financial instruments for enterprises, that we have given the impetus to create mini-companies set up by pupils and students to learn entrepreneurship, and we have the database managed by the euro info centres to find business partners. to create growth and jobs, europe must provide a general social framework that encourages entrepreneurship. since mindsets are formed early in life, education can be a major factor in successfully promoting entrepreneurship. on the basis of the work carried out in the member states, the commission was able to adopt a communication on promoting entrepreneurship in education and training in february 2006. i want to ensure that all european pupils and students have the opportunity to get in touch with the business world during their school years and during their studies. in many european countries this is already being done in an exemplary manner. however, a number of countries still have substantial deficits. at the moment, the commission is working intensively on the teaching of entrepreneurial thinking at university level. we know from america that the experience there is extremely positive. universities that offer entrepreneurship training report great successes, namely that the graduates of these universities are prepared to start a business at a much higher rate than in our country. there are three other important areas where we can help to facilitate business start-ups. firstly, there is the whole 'better regulation' project, with simplification of legislation and reduction of red tape. many people are also psychologically prevented from starting a business because they believe that there are too many and too complicated regulations that they have to follow. secondly, because many people do not even start a business because they think it is too complicated, we proposed to the european council last year that the member states should commit themselves to limiting the time it takes to start a business to one week. this should be achieved in all member states by the end of this year. finally, i would like to point out that we are working intensively on the question of the negative consequences of bankruptcy. how do we deal with the failure of the first attempt? in america, as you know, it's not a social problem at all when the first business attempt fails. in many european countries, the first failure is already the final outcome. the last point i would like to mention is the problem of financing, which is a core problem for start-ups. the commission has significantly increased the corresponding funding opportunities for the period 2007-2013. the bulk of the competitiveness and innovation programme is in financial instruments: more than €1 billion is being made available here for loans and guarantees, national guarantee facilities and other modern financial instruments, including the provision of equity capital. this is a programme which is very well received by small and mediumsized enterprises. so overall we have taken a wide range of measures which i hope will encourage more new young businesses in europe.
madam president, thank you, commissioner, for your full answer. let me ask you if it is possible to calculate the capital that each young person brings, which is not measurable as a material good but as a spiritual one, so that it can be a criterion of eligibility for starting up a business. you stressed the importance of education, but how will the qualifications of young people be measured?
vice-president of the commission. anyone who meets the legal requirements can become an entrepreneur. theoretically, you can imagine a society with 100% entrepreneurs, there are no restrictions. the limitations are where i said, there is a culture in some european countries that people would rather work in an employee position than take the risk of being self-employed. i could name the member states where this is the case. but there are also the obstacles i mentioned. the decision to become an entrepreneur is a personal one. we can't force anyone to do that. the only thing we can do - and we are really doing it in a way that has not been done in europe before - is to encourage people to take the step towards entrepreneurship and to make it as easy as possible for them to do so. i'm pretty sure that our efforts will be successful, but it's not a short-term project; it's a project that requires a long breath.
vice-president of the commission. the commission agrees with the honourable member that engineering is of particular importance to the european economy as a whole, particularly in view of our strategy for more growth and employment. engineering services are essential to many sectors of the economy and therefore deserve our full attention. a high-level working group 'dialogue mechanical engineering' was set up at the end of 2005 to provide a comprehensive analysis of the sector's competitiveness for the mechanical engineering sector. this initiative follows a similar approach in other manufacturing sectors, and more initiatives will follow shortly. the initial results of the working group show that training and qualification issues are a serious challenge for the manufacturing industry. not only are there insufficient numbers of young technicians entering the workforce in absolute terms, there are also problems with the retention of skilled workers in industry and with the public image of engineering. in addition, there are problems in adapting to the many changes that are taking place. these issues are dealt with by the commission in conjunction with industry and the member states. since the commission has only a very limited mandate in the field of vocational training, it is particularly important that other groups and stakeholders contribute. the commission will in particular compare the different approaches of the member states in order to identify the best possible solutions and to define the appropriate framework within which innovation can develop. the member states must do more, particularly in terms of training content, lifelong learning and worker mobility, while it is up to industry to define the future requirements and to make technical occupations more attractive. all these elements are part of the commission's industrial policy approach and we will inform parliament and the council later this year of the extent to which our industrial policy proposals have led to progress.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam deputy, i think that these are measures financed by the european structural funds, for which i am not responsible, as you know. i do not want to impose any rules on the responsible members, mrs hübner and mr špidla. but i think they both fully understand the purpose of this facility. i shall take this opportunity to speak to mrs hübner and mr špidla, to ask them about their experience and to ask them to continue to support such initiatives if they prove useful.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i must confess that i am not entirely clear as to the assumption on which your question is based and as to the origin of the impression you convey in your question. the assumption underlying your question is fundamentally wrong. there was and is not the slightest difference between my colleague mr dimas and myself on the question of binding co2 emission ceilings. quite the contrary. we were the first to say, back in december last year, that legal action was necessary. i announced here in parliament last november that we would be introducing legally binding caps. we are basing this on the recommendations of the cars 21 high level group, which i have reported to parliament. this group recommended the so-called integrated approach. the commission has also adopted this in its decision, which was adopted with the agreement of both mr dimas and myself. the integrated approach also includes the increased use of biofuels to achieve the desired reduction target of 120 grams of co2 per km on average for the european motor vehicle fleet. i have spoken very often in numerous interviews before and after the commission's decision on this very issue and have stressed the importance of increasing the share of biofuels now. i am therefore very pleased with the decision of the european council last week, which followed the commission's proposal and my proposal to increase the share of biofuels in european fuel consumption to a total of 10% in the next few years. i can assure you that not only are there no differences between mr dimas and myself on this issue, but we are working together with all our strength to achieve these objectives decided by the commission.
i think it is quite understandable that there are differences of opinion in lively and very productive bodies such as the commission. i would like to see more light on the parameters of biofuels. this is the central point of my question, and this is after the sudden changes in the european agricultural policy regarding the sugar regime, changes which have had the most adverse effects on sugar producers, particularly in my own region. i would like to know, mr commissioner, what is the potential for biofuels. i would like to focus your answer on the supplementary question.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international labour organisation has adopted the ambitious maritime labour convention, which sets minimum standards for working conditions on board ships: employment conditions, housing conditions, social protection, not to mention the implementing provisions. the added value of this convention, which is a real draft of an international maritime labour code, is that it makes existing standards more effective, adapts them to globalisation and, above all, makes it possible to increase the number of ratifications by states. the commission, like the ilo, considers the objective of a level playing field to be fundamental. we are convinced that the maritime labour convention will help to do this, by eliminating shipping that does not meet minimum standards and making the seafarer's profession more attractive. however, the convention must be ratified quickly to produce its practical effects. a decision authorising member states to ratify the convention is legally necessary since the rules in force at the ilo do not allow the community as such to ratify the text, even if it contains provisions falling within community competence. in order not to delay the ratification procedures, the commission endeavoured to submit its proposal for a decision promptly after the adoption of the convention. in its proposal, the commission provides for the principle of the power to ratify and suggests 31 december 2008 as the deadline for depositing the instruments of ratification. the commission therefore wishes to maintain a firm wording on the commitment to ratify the convention and rejects drafting which would weaken this principle. i would like to thank you, mrs mcdonald, and i would like to give you my full support for your report which maintains the 2008 deadline. given the level of european standards, it is likely that third countries will be much more affected by the entry into force of the convention than member states, which already apply more stringent standards. the entry into force of the convention will therefore reduce the gap between the standards of most third countries and those of the community, which should favour fairer conditions of competition. entire parts of the convention are already covered by equivalent provisions in community law. this will avoid the need for member states to revise their legislation as a whole and will enable them to speed up ratification. the commission can understand the internal constraints of the states and, in this context, can be more flexible on the time limit itself, but not on the principle of a firm deadline without conditions. it would be a real pity to break the momentum we have had in the geneva negotiations by weakening the principle of depositing instruments of ratification. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your attention and i renew my thanks to mrs mcdonald for the commission's position on the amendments: see annex.
the committee on transport and tourism adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, i too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and to welcome the fact that we are very close to signing the international convention on maritime labour, which on the one hand guarantees the social rights and a decent living for seafarers and on the other promotes the maritime profession, because through training and work organisation we can ensure the necessary quality in maritime labour, which the european union needs for its competitiveness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime industry is not left to the detriment of the environment. the convention is also very important for world shipping because it will apply uniformly certain standards for the organization of maritime work. the various states are now applying in part the provisions already contained in the convention, but in addition they are ensuring conditions of fair competition; the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the marine environment is based on the principle of the protection of the marine environment, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty of rome. the other important point is that there will be the certificate and the declaration of seafarer's work. this system is under the control of the port state, so inspections and possible detention can be carried out if there is any doubt as to whether these standards are being respected. i believe that the principles which we wish to spread throughout the world, beyond the application to our own political entity, are expressed in this convention and it is good that all member states should try to ratify it soon. in the committee on transport we had amendments for the transposition until 2010 because we know that there is not the same way of ratification in the various member states and we believe that it would be possible to give enough time to prepare this ratification well. in any case, the prevailing view is that by 2008 we must have completed the procedures, so we must hurry and set the good example of proper integration and implementation, first of all in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i congratulate mrs mcdonald because in her report the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to authorise the member states to ratify the international labour organisation maritime labour convention in the interests of the european union. it thus recognises the importance of safeguarding the status of the seafarer in the context of globalisation and of preventing exploitation. the existence of a community system for the coordination of social security systems is also ensured. the ratification of the convention by the member states will in particular strengthen the global social framework, because they are aiming at decent conditions worldwide. we believe that maritime safety must be strengthened if the seafaring profession is to attract young europeans again and to fill the 17 000 vacancies of community seafarers, in particular those of bridge and engine officers. it is an opportunity, commissioner, to stress the importance of strengthening maritime education and the pan-european campaign for vocational guidance in maritime professions. today's advances in technology allow direct daily contact between seafarers and their families and complement safe working conditions. a campaign to attract seafarers should include the prospect of employing remote seafarers in activities on land or in parallel alternative employment: sea-land. it is positive that a social dialogue between shipbuilders and shipowners is being launched at european level and we hope that an agreement will be reached. the correct application of the ilo international convention also requires monitoring by a tripartite committee with representatives of shipowners, shipbuilders and the state. finally, we would point out that the european commission has rightly withdrawn its proposal for minimum standards of employment and wages for seafarers working in its waters since 2001. the intention to treat community and non-community seafarers equally is good but in practice a community directive on vessels carrying vehicles cannot be applied as all voyages are international. we ask the european commission to be particularly careful about the compatibility of its proposals with the international law of the sea.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i would like to reiterate my warmest thanks to mr leichtfried and to the committee on transport and tourism for supporting and enriching the commission's proposal. the amendments proposed by your rapporteur reinforce the commission's objectives in favour of aviation safety in europe. the commission therefore accepts 14 of these amendments, which fully contribute to this objective. i would mention in particular the two amendments which aim to allow the benefit and mutual recognition of certificates to be automatically withdrawn in the event of non-compliance with the common rules. i would also mention the amendment to oblige the european aviation safety agency to provide the commission with any information that is useful for updating the blacklist. i also note that in your supplementary amendments parliament is asking for a reference to the medical certificate to be included in article 6ter (4). i could agree with this proposal because it reflects the commission's original proposal: it is amendment no 34 by mrs ticău. on the other hand, it seems to me that 15 of the amendments proposed by your rapporteur are not acceptable as they stand and deserve further discussion. mr leichtfried and mr evans, your amendment no 17 is intended to allow the agency to impose fines, but we do not think that this amendment is acceptable as it stands. i fully understand the value of imposing fines for the most minor infringements and it is true that the tools available to the agency today may appear disproportionate in this respect. this amendment, interesting as it is, raises a number of legal, institutional and practical questions. in order to decide on these important and complex issues, the commission needs to study them carefully. it is necessary to ensure that the system which would be put in place is in conformity with the treaty. in the meantime, as you will understand, the commission cannot accept this amendment while recognizing its value. mr leichtfried and mr evans, we find it difficult to accept amendment no 27, which seeks to finance part of the certification operations with a community grant. in 2007, the operations concerned will amount to eur 9 million. this is a rapidly growing expenditure of about 5% per year, excluding inflation, and therefore cannot be financed under the current financial perspective. in addition, this amendment would lead to the substitution of the taxpayer for industrialists who make or have made profits by marketing the products concerned. several amendments, namely amendments nos 30, 31 and 33, have also just been tabled on eu-ops. as you know, this subject was the subject of long and passionate debates which finally resulted last year in a compromise largely accepted by the three institutions. this compromise - regulation (ec) no 1899/2006 - also provides for its own evolution. i think it is not reasonable to try to question it now. i would therefore urge you to stick to the amendment voted in the committee on transport and to amendment no 34, which i can support. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. for the commission's position on the amendments: see annex. the commission is of course continually seeking the agreement of the member states and the european parliament, mr janowski, to be able to intervene in international bodies on behalf of the community. i thank the european parliament for its support, but unfortunately the member states have not yet fully understood the value of this presence of the commission and the union in international institutions such as the international civil aviation organisation. mr remek raised the problem of light aircraft, which are also used commercially and can reach high speeds. they intervene in space with other planes. it is appropriate to impose safety rules on them, albeit lighter ones, of course. another question, which i have already answered, concerns the agency's ability to ensure these new competences. the agency is said to have the necessary human and material resources to carry out these tasks. at the end of 2006, just four years after its creation, it had a staff of 280 and the financial statement attached to the proposal submitted to you foresees more than 330 staff at the end of 2007. it is true, however, that the financial resources of the agency are problematic, since the latter must of course be financed partly by subsidies but also by fees paid by manufacturers who apply for the certification of appliances. it is a difficult problem, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, and we shall certainly have the opportunity to return to it, because we must also find a budget that can be maintained on a permanent basis. i'll talk to the transportation committee. mrs de veyrac recalled all the progress we have made and by which parliament has really distinguished itself. would this device make the blacklist obsolete? no, because the blacklist is a repressive tool to banish bad carriers from european skies. the prior authorization to operate in the community issued to carriers from third countries will be a preventive tool to ensure that only airlines with an appropriate level of safety will be able to fly to the community. the two systems complement each other and it is conceivable that one day, by means of prevention, repression will become obsolete. we are not there yet, but that is my wish. i would like to say, madam president, in apologising for not having answered all the questions put, how grateful i am to the european parliament for helping us to equip the european union with a real and gradual system of air safety control, which i believe will be one of the best in the world. we want a european sky that is safe; it is very important for our fellow citizens who will be called upon to fly more and more and who obviously require adequate protection against all the risks of insecurity. i thank you and i thank the whole parliament again for their valuable contributions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12.30 p.m. the commission's position
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on illegal bird hunting in malta by mr marcin libicki, on behalf of the committee on petitions (o-0013/2007 b6-0015/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, although votes have wings and they go from one party to another, i am more interested, not in the issue of votes, but in the issue of poaching. i think that the honourable members cannot possibly not know the answers to the questions they have already asked. they know that everything that has been agreed on the accession of countries to the european union is public. there are no secret agreements and i am sure that the honourable members are fully aware of this, because they have been in the european parliament for over two years now. so i can't quite figure out what these classified documents are. there's no secrecy here. everything that's been agreed is public. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind. there is no agreement on anything else. as regards derogations, the right to request derogations is provided for in article 9 for all member states. malta may also request a derogation in accordance with the provisions of article 9. malta did not ask for a derogation, it simply made the derogation itself, we took it to the court and we have been waiting since july 2006 for a reply. he hasn't sent us a reply yet. the commission is particularly pleased with the active intervention of parliament's committee on petitions. the visit of the members of the committee on petitions to malta in may 2006 was fruitful and the report on the visit confirms that the views of the commission and the european parliament are in agreement on this matter. the commission used the infringement procedure because the maltese authorities continue to allow spring hunting in breach of community law. malta's criminal behaviour is obvious! it started with the 2004 hunting season but has continued in the years since and, it seems, is continuing this year. the commission considers it a priority to prevent systematic and widespread infringements of community legislation on birds. we therefore intend to extend the existing - as i said earlier - open infringement procedure, which concerns the 2004 case, to cover malta's generalised infringement practice. in this way we will be able to deal with and prevent future infringements, which will be done at the commission meeting on 21 march. as regards the present situation, a commission delegation will be visiting malta on 28, 29 and 30 march to discuss the matter in more detail. the competent national authorities will be asked for explanations and made aware of the need to comply with community legislation without delay. if the maltese authorities persist in their position, the commission will proceed to the next stage of the procedure, namely the adoption of a reasoned opinion, and may then immediately refer the matter to the court of justice. the procedure which the commission can follow - for any case, i am not just talking about malta! - in the main proceedings, and after issuing a reasoned opinion in accordance with article 228, to seek interim measures ordering the member state to bring the infringement to an end. the court may order interim measures if it considers that there is an urgent need to prevent irreparable damage resulting from a manifest and manifest breach of community law. in the case of malta, the commission could not have requested interim measures today if it had not previously extended - as i said before that it would - the scope of the 2004 case to cover subsequent years (2005, 2006 and possibly 2007). the court would have rejected the application, since the risk of irreparable damage would have already passed. the application for interim measures would be without purpose if it concerned only the 2004 infringement. it is for this very reason - from a legal point of view and in order to prevent future infringements - that the current procedure should be extended at the commission's meeting on 21 march. i hope that the visit of the directorate-general for the environment will convince the maltese authorities to comply fully with the provisions of community legislation.
i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday, at 12.30 p.m.
in writing. the decisions of the european council in march are further undeniable proof of the eu's role as a mechanism for promoting capital's choices. instead of taking measures to protect the environment, they are taking measures to protect businesses and strengthen monopolies. the predatory exploitation of natural resources by capital is the main cause of the major climate changes and the real risk of ecological disaster on the planet. but instead of taking bold measures to at least reduce the monopoly's insolvency, decisions are being taken to strengthen competition in the electricity and gas markets, to liberalise the energy market and to hand over the strategic sector of energy production, transmission and distribution entirely to private capital. the centre-right and centre-left governments unanimously committed themselves to accelerating the implementation of the anti-people lisbon strategy, setting as their first objectives the commercialisation of education and health, the attack on social security funds, pensions, wages and the social rights of workers. at the same time, the promotion of tougher anti-labour measures, labour market 'adaptability' and 'ease of living' is accelerating, with the aim of reducing labour costs in order to increase the profitability of eu capital. the kke fights against these choices, raises just demands and struggles with the workers to meet the modern needs of the popular strata.
the european council has not only dealt with the climate, mr president, of course. those were in the right direction. we europeans will suffer both the agony and the money. i am not saying that we should not take action, but that we should not take action against the united states, china and india, because that would be like building your own car, paying a lot of money and having your neighbour drive around with a broken exhaust. what did we do ? a hole in the water! so we need a new kyoto to be signed by these three countries, which together have half the population and 65% of the energy. it's a matter that we have to measure and that's it. on the other hand, we are talking about developments in the economic, labour and social fields. i didn't get it! what social class are we talking about ? for those who after lisbon traded bwm for a mercedes ? it is 100 million europeans living below the poverty line. what did we do for them ? what are we gonna do ? it's the inactive citizens. they are the ones who will black out any referendum, if necessary tomorrow, on the constitution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. the decisions of the european council in march are further undeniable proof of the eu's role as a mechanism for promoting capital's choices. instead of taking measures to protect the environment, they are taking measures to protect businesses and strengthen monopolies. the predatory exploitation of natural resources by capital is the main cause of the major climate changes and the real risk of ecological disaster on the planet. but instead of taking bold measures to at least reduce the monopoly's insolvency, decisions are being taken to strengthen competition in the electricity and gas markets, to liberalise the energy market and to hand over the strategic sector of energy production, transmission and distribution entirely to private capital. the centre-right and centre-left governments unanimously committed themselves to accelerating the implementation of the anti-people lisbon strategy, setting as their first objectives the commercialisation of education and health, the attack on social security funds, pensions, wages and the social rights of workers. at the same time, the promotion of tougher anti-labour measures, labour market 'adaptability' and 'ease of living' is accelerating, with the aim of reducing labour costs in order to increase the profitability of eu capital. the kke fights against these choices, raises just demands and struggles with the workers to meet the modern needs of the popular strata.
in writing. the international labour organisation's maritime labour convention limits the labour rights of seafarers to the lowest possible level. it is far behind the level of their modern rights and the demands of the shipping movement. we have reservations about certain provisions of the convention, such as those which recognize the right of the labour offices to exist and operate, allegedly to provide work for seamen. the european parliament's report and the commission's proposal, which allow the member states to ratify the convention, reflect the contradictions and intense competition between the various sectors of the shipping industry. the convention is strongly opposed by greek shipowners, who object to the guarantee of even inadequate working conditions and wages in order to keep intact the neo-colonial legislative framework for shipping, which was drawn up by the governments of new democracy and pasok, in order to continue unhindered the harsh exploitation of greek and foreign seafarers and the increase of their profits. the kke calls on the shipowners to strengthen the class and militant forces of the shipowners' movement, to escalate their struggles and to counterattack to secure and win their rights, to satisfy their contemporary needs against the anti-people policy of the eu, the politicians of the capital new democracy and pasok, and the forces of the euro-road
in writing. the report, apart from its gratuitous declarations on the 'special character' of public utilities, paves the way for their privatisation and inclusion in the directive on the liberalisation of services (bolkestein directive). in the context of capitalist restructuring, critical sectors of social protection services are handed over to the "free market" and "free competition", i.e. to the bankruptcy of big capital, so that they no longer even operate on today's limited social criteria but produce profits for the plutocracy. both the european commission's communication and the european parliament's report on social services are geared to strengthening anti-people changes. they drastically limit the concept of public service. they promote the delegation of tasks from the public to the private sector (so that public authorities become "servitors" of "free competition") and the development of public-private partnerships, which are "an encircling criterion" for the penetration of monopoly business groups and in the field of social services of general interest. faced with this nightmarish future, the workers must strengthen the working class and popular movement and strengthen their struggles, so as to contribute to changing the political balance of power in our country and in europe to overthrow this reactionary and anti-people policy.
in writing. the european parliament, while voting on the annual wish list for nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament, refuses to condemn the installation of new ballistic and anti-ballistic missile systems in europe. this decision is in effect acceptance and participation in the so-called us missile defense (nmd), which aims to establish a global offensive nuclear missile network. the european parliament, with the votes of the european people's party, the socialists and the neoliberals in the overwhelming majority, has given its consent. the kke meps abstained from the vote because we refuse to participate in illusions about the nature of the eu, which has been and remains aggressive in this area too. the political forces behind it are trying to present it as "anti-nuclear power". its member countries (britain, france) have nuclear weapons. there are other american nuclear weapons on eu soil. now it's preparing to join the us missile defense, which is sparking a new arms race and competition. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the aim of us "missile defense" is to consolidate imperialist domination through nuclear terror
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mr kader arif on the excellent analysis and proposals contained in his report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we must be honest and realistic. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the european union does not have a credible and comprehensive mediterranean strategy today, which would allow it to play a leading role in the wider middle east and the maghreb region, and there is a specific reason for this. the european union's neighbourhood strategy is complementary to the european union's euro-mediterranean policy, said our dear friend, commissioner mandelson. i'll be allowed to disagree. i believe that one of the reasons why euro-mediterranean cooperation is not progressing and has a negative balance sheet is precisely the european neighbourhood strategy. we have gone from being strategic partners with the third mediterranean countries to being neighbours. we're going from a corporate strategy to a neighborhood strategy. the problem is not just semantics, it is a problem of a substantial political absence of the european union from the wider region. i would also like to say something else, mr president: the european neighbourhood strategy has effectively cancelled the regional political, economic and social dimension of euro-mediterranean cooperation, and this is a decisive factor for europe's presence in the region.
the president of the council. i would like to refer to my answer to the question we are considering. i can only say once again that in the area of racism and xenophobia, the question is the definition of rather abstract facts on which agreement is to be reached in this framework decision. i do not want to go over what i have just said. the implementation and decision in detail will remain the responsibility of the länder.
the president of the council. at the informal meeting of the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior in dresden from 14 to 16 january, the ministers agreed to begin by taking stock of the various national rules in this field in relation to violent videos and violent games. the aim of the survey is to provide a basis for comparing the standards of protection, the possibilities of intervention and the penalties, and to provide guidance to the member states on the best system. the presidency of the council subsequently prepared a questionnaire to assess the legal situation in the member states with regard to media in particular video and computer games and films which glorify violence. the questionnaire is comprehensive and covers the provisions on the protection of young people. it covers general prohibitions in criminal law and other legislation, prohibitions specifically aimed at protecting minors and age-marking systems. the questionnaire will also address the issue of the extent to which the right to freedom of expression is guaranteed in the respective national legal systems. the commission will also be consulted on the list of games of violence prohibited in the member states. the aim is to send the questionnaire to the member states at short notice, with feedback to be requested by april. the aim of establishing an eu-wide standard of protection in this area will be pursued on the basis of the evaluation of the survey, which is expected to be completed after the first half of 2007.
mr president, i thank the minister for his reply, i wish him success in collecting the answers to the questionnaire and i congratulate him on the short timetable. my question is not about age limits, as the president said, but about the link between the ban and the internal market. i have an example from my own country, which has banned gambling and has been condemned by the court of justice of the european communities on internal market grounds. you also raise the issue of free speech, which is another issue that will prevent the ban.
the president of the council. - i'm not sure. i think you've got a good idea of what we're trying to do here. we want to achieve a common eu standard of protection. but for now, i could only describe how we do it. basically, this is the best practice query. we have, in fact, very different regulations in the eu so far, and our idea is to use this questionnaire to find out what works, what experiences have been made, where, and then to come to a common eu standard of protection by simply comparing and seeing what can be common. in view of the wide variations in practice in the various countries, we really see no other reasonable option than to first carry out such a survey and then look for examples of best practice.
the president of the council. they have, in effect, answered the questionnaire and promoted the swedish system in one go. of course, that's allowed, we're happy to take that. but we will have to - and you will understand this - also get the information on other systems that are working or not working before we can decide on a sensible common eu approach. but we will also be studying your experiences with great attention.
mr president, i would point out that the translation of the title of my question is incorrect. i have not asked about the age limits, i have asked about the relation of the ban to the internal market rules.
the president of the council. mr president, you will understand that i cannot go into detail here on an incident that took place yesterday. however, what you say unfortunately confirms that what i have said here is still necessary. it is quite obvious that we need to have this dialogue at all levels - and i have indicated that we are doing this - but also to put pressure on the turkish side to bring its standards and laws into line with european standards. this is crucial for the success of the accession negotiations. this is the most important lever the council has at present, and we are using it.
mr president, i listened carefully to the reply given by the spokesman for the presidency to mr papadimoulis. i'm afraid we're confining the matter to the tragic case of the murder of hard dick. i believe that the european union and the member states must - and here the german presidency must play its part - we must all, mr president, look at the dangerous dimension that the development of a nationalist climate in turkey is taking. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner mandelson in particular. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this debate tonight highlights an internal strategic divide in the european union. i believe that, as mr fjellner's speech has shown, there is on the one hand the europe of the large commercial networks for the protection of consumers, and on the other hand the europe of the productive forces, the protection of the productive and industrial fabric, employment and the defence of workers. we must reconcile these two strategic approaches for the good of the european union. the european union is a great example of a great europe, a great europe, a great europe. the european union is a global community, and it is not just a european union, but a global community of nations, and it is not just a european union. it can remain unarmed against the practices of unfair international trade competition, against the social and environmental dumping of certain emerging economies in the developing world. i believe that the green paper presented by mr mandelson can provide a good basis for further discussion. we need trade defence measures on the basic condition that they are effective, that they help to defend the commercial interests of the european union, that they help to defend the principle of transparency and faster decision-making. since, mr mandelson, your proposal is aimed at improving the european union's trade defence instruments, we can really discuss and contribute positively to this debate.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by saying that it is a great honour to speak on behalf of mrs rothe, who is absent this evening. i would like to congratulate commissioner mandelson on his speech, mr dimitriou on his initiative and all the colleagues from all the political groups who have made a decisive contribution to our debate today on this important humanitarian issue, the issue of the missing persons of the cyprus tragedy. i believe, mr president, that tomorrow, when we vote, all members, regardless of political group, will be actively present and vote in favour of the draft resolution, an act of affirmation of the defence of humanitarian principles, a profound humanitarian problem, such as that of the missing in cyprus. mr president, in 1981 the commission of inquiry on missing persons was set up under the auspices of the secretary-general of the united nations. in 1995 we had the first resolution here in the european parliament, an important step towards raising awareness among european public opinion and international public opinion. in may 2001 the european court of human rights delivered its judgment on the intergovernmental action brought by the republic of cyprus against turkey. in this decision - and i think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is interesting for all of us to study it - the clear violations of fundamental human rights and the european convention on human rights by turkey are confirmed, namely article 2, which concerns the right to life, article 3, which concerns the right to liberty and security, and article 4, which concerns the right not to be mistreated. however, we are now in 2007 and unfortunately we have very little results from investigating this problem. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that as the european union and particularly as the european parliament, we have at least a humanitarian responsibility to defend the fundamental right, as mr mandelson has called it, of the families of the disappeared to know the fate of their relatives, and that this responsibility must be expressed in the most absolute way tomorrow. i think it is particularly important for the european parliament to remind everyone of its obligations, because the missing are a humanitarian problem which concerns the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots, the greeks and the turks. it is the result of dramatic developments in cyprus since the 1960s, since 1964 after the intercommunal conflicts, and of course it is the result of the turkish invasion of 1974. i believe, as mr mandelson rightly said, that the setting up of the committee of inquiry into missing persons is a very important step, as is the financing of its operation by the european commission. i would like to point out in this connection that it is also the obligation of the member states to contribute financially to the operation of this committee of inquiry. i am glad that mr mandelson has supported the need for funding and reaffirmed the european commission's readiness to finance its operation. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that by our discussion today we are not only activating the historical memory but, above all, we are contributing to bringing the two communities in cyprus, the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots, closer together. i therefore believe that our discussion can be a bridge to create confidence-building measures towards reconciliation and reunification of the two communities within the framework of a single republic of cyprus within the european union. i also believe that all of us here, with our humanist sensibilities, will continue to show our interest and, as the draft resolution says, it is very important that the european parliament should contribute to developments or monitor them - if you wish - through periodic reports to be submitted by the committee.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. once again it is clear in this report - and i would like to congratulate mr musotto on the excellent work he has done - that island regions need special attention. they need more help to not only overcome the development difficulties they face but also to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the common market and the globalised economy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. at the same time, however, the advantages of island regions are well known to all permanent residents and to the millions of citizens who choose european islands for their holidays: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the development of the regions concerned, in particular by means of the creation of a european regional development fund. these advantages must be supported, highlighted and promoted through the policies of the european union, and especially through cohesion policy, if we really want to achieve real economic and territorial cohesion between the regions of europe. in this connection, i would like to mention the particular importance of granting state aid to island regions where fuel and energy costs have a negative impact on their competitiveness and the flexible application of both existing and future state aid in relation to transport costs, the implementation of an integrated tourism policy, the implementation of an effective business policy, the immediate creation of an administrative unit for islands in the directorate-general for regional policy on the basis of the existing experience of the administrative unit for outermost regions, the operation of which would ensure that the specificities and needs of the islands and their permanent and seasonal inhabitants are taken into account in the development and implementation of european policies, in particular in the areas of transport, water and energy management. ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the fourth cohesion report is being prepared and the debate on the future of regional policy is beginning in view of the reform of the financial perspective for 2008-2009, the european parliament should remind us that the european union cannot treat similar situations in a different way, nor can it treat different situations in a similar way.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. the resources of the structural funds have not had the expected effect on these regions. new measures must therefore be planned and specific measures taken for the islands. systematic monitoring and recording of their development in comparison with the rest of europe's regions will be a useful tool. i am pleased that a number of issues have been incorporated in the report we are voting on today, such as the review of the terms of contracts to facilitate transport and transport on lines of low commercial interest, ensuring energy efficiency with a focus and priority on renewable energy sources, studying and taking measures to deal with the impact of climate change which is exacerbating existing problems such as water scarcity, broadband coverage to make life easier for islanders and to provide solutions to major problems, development in a rational and controlled way that protects the islands' natural features, tackling the problem of illegal immigration and the control of european coastlines. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with today's report we are making a good start. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in conclusion, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr musotto, for the important and systematic work he has done.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr schapira, for this report that brought due attention to the role of local authorities in development cooperation. the commission shares most of the rapporteur’s observations and agrees on the high importance of local authorities, both for better governance and for improving the wellbeing of populations, for example through better service delivery in the basic social sectors. the commission pays great attention to this aspect, on the one hand by supporting decentralisation processes and local governance through geographic and thematic instruments and, on the other, by involving local authorities in the programming process itself. while decentralisation is considered one of the important areas of cooperation under geographic programmes, the commission does not impose focal sectors on the partner countries. instead, focal sectors in each country are decided following the principle of ownership and in close consultation with all stakeholders. the commission’s delegations have been provided with guidelines on how to facilitate the inclusion of local authorities’ representatives in the whole consultative process. in cases when the government did not select specific support to local authorities as an area of cooperation, the latter were often supported through sector programmes – in health and education – or through other types of interventions, in particular defining decentralisation policy, elaborating a legal framework and/or supporting planning and financial management capacities at local level. another instrument at our disposal is the thematic programme, non-state actors and local authorities in development. it is designed to be subsidiary and complementary to intervention programmes in the country strategy papers. for the period 2007-2010 an amount of eur 903 million has been earmarked for this programme, of which up to 15% can be allocated to local authorities. as you know, mr president, it is an actor-oriented programme aimed at capacity-building through support to own initiatives from local authorities and non-state actors originating from the eu and partner countries. its main objectives concern the facilitation of local authorities’ and non-state actors’ participation in poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies as well as strengthening their networking activities. regarding the involvement of local authorities in creating development policies, efforts are being made both at global and country level. at global level, the commission has established continuous dialogue with the existing european and international platforms such as the united cities and local governments, the council of european municipalities and regions and the committee of the regions. at country level, the participation of local authorities in the programming process was introduced under the ninth european development fund. it then became an essential principle of the ongoing tenth edf programming process and, as i have already mentioned, the commission’s delegations are actively promoting this process. following the adoption of the final country strategy papers, the commission will draft a report to assess the progress made in promoting participatory approaches under the tenth edf. the analysis will examine a number of issues relating to the consultation process, including questions such as the one mentioned by the rapporteur, whether the consultations held with stakeholders were based on draft csps. we are all convinced that close cooperation with the local authorities can bring important benefits to our efforts to combat poverty in the world and i am confident that this process can be further improved through our joint efforts. the report we are discussing now is an important contribution to these efforts.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schapira, on his excellent work and also thank him for the constructive cooperation we have had. local government bodies have been experts in all areas of urban development in the developing world for many decades. they have ever-increasing budgets and are constantly expanding their activities. they are therefore a vast network of solidarity, extending over all five continents. but the real value of local government bodies lies in the fact that they provide assistance that better meets the expectations of the population, since they are those who are closer to the citizens than the state or international donors. another contribution of the operators would therefore be the achievement of objective 2 for education. by working together effectively, local authorities can help build and maintain adequate school facilities with qualified teaching staff and free transport and meals for pupils, so that all children have the opportunity to attend school. in addition, they could also contribute to the fight against child labour, since it is easier and more effective to control the industrial and agricultural sectors, where the exploitation of children is more frequent, first at local level but equally serious at global level, which we must combat.
in writing. in the 12 years since the barcelona declaration, the peoples of the mediterranean have become poorer, more desperate, and regions have known war. at the same time, capital, both domestic and foreign, is growing. the report on the establishment of a euro-mediterranean free trade area expresses the eu's concern at the lack of progress in the barcelona process. the aim is to strengthen the actions, that is, the brutal intervention of the imperialist eu inside the countries of the south-southeastern mediterranean, with a sophisticated targeting of every aspect of the social, economic and political life of the countries. the eu is spending huge sums in these countries on terms and conditions so that economic development, political structures serve the interests of eu capital and its profits, bypassing any national sovereignty for the states of the region. the concern expressed about political instability in the south-southeast mediterranean, about the material disasters of war, is hypocritical. the imperialist eu is complicit and co-responsible. as witnessed by the thousands of soldiers in the area. the welfare of the peoples can only be possible to the extent that they have full national sovereignty and freedom to develop their structures and production in the way they choose. the european union must be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to prevent the spread of the disease.
mr president, the berlin ceremony has come to an end and it was a spectacular celebration of the very important achievements of 50 years. but now the lights of the ceremony have gone out and we are faced with a reality in which european citizens are seized by feelings of indifference, bitterness and, above all, anxiety. the european citizens are convinced that europe cannot move forward easily under the present circumstances. it is comforting that chancellor merkel has understood that the first priority is to create the conditions for the mechanisms of the european union's institutions to become operational, since it is obvious that the european union of 27 cannot go forward with the same structures and the same structure as when it had only 15 members. the project is extremely difficult. it is characteristic that the berlin declaration, signed by the 27 leaders, makes no reference to the european constitution, which is the main issue of concern to us. the creation of a president of the union and a minister for foreign affairs, the reduction in the number of commissioners, the new weighting of votes, the increase in the powers of parliament, the abolition of the three pillars, the strengthening of the institution of enhanced cooperation between the member states, the acquisition of legal personality for the european union, are some of the successful provisions of the european constitution which was not voted on. i think we should incorporate these into a new treaty of nice and make them a reality before the 2009 elections. let's not make any grand plans. let's get down to reality! i think that this is a realistic solution with which europe can move forward.
the eu and the european parliament, by adopting the akhtisaari report on the creation of an 'independent' protectorate of kosovo under euro-european occupation, are setting an unprecedented global precedent for secession and the creation of a new state. it overturns and violates all previous agreements and principles of the un and of international law that was formed after the second world war. the report, which was voted in favour by the ppe, liberal and socialist group in the european parliament, calls for a new demarcation of the borders in the balkans, the perpetuation of the presence of the euro-asian occupying forces, and the use of brutal blackmail in serbia, while at the same time, with provocative audacity, it blames and condemns the serbian population of kosovo and serbia itself. it opens the floodgates to the intensification of ethnic conflicts and conflicts throughout the balkans, to the incitement of separatist movements, to the imposition and legitimization of the presence of euro-asian occupying forces in the region. the real objectives of the criminal war waged by nato against yugoslavia, in which the eu and the governments of its member states, centre-left and centre-right, including the then greek pasok government, took part, are now being revealed, a policy which is being pursued today with the same consistency by the new democracy government, confirming the commitment of both parties of bipartisanship to participating in and supporting the criminal imperialist plans of the eu-nato and the usa in the region and throughout the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, they could be better, because if in europe of 25 1.4% of all farms are organic and they cover only 3.6% of the utilised agricultural area, there is considerable scope for further development. but how could we persuade consumers to prefer organic products by spending more on their food, so that increased demand would encourage more farmers to go organic? of course, by constantly and rigorously checking their quality. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment. we must be strict with imported organic products. only if they have been produced by production methods equivalent to those used in the community will they be entitled to bear the 'organic' label. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the rules of organic production are also circumvented, then these imported products will not be organic either, which means that we will be deceiving consumers - and they will be competing with european farmers, who meet all the conditions and requirements.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating my colleagues ivo belet and giusto catania on the great result of their reports on the future of professional football in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting and economic interests are not undermined. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. when the bosman case came to light in 1995, no one expected that the european union would make its first major inroads into sport for the benefit of workers and, above all, footballers. the report is therefore the result of 12 years of initiative to chart new paths with a perspective that reflects the values of the european union and the most popular sport, in other words football. the amendments voted for by all the committees, the proposals to the committee on culture, education, media, sport and multilingualism and the council, open the way for a rapid proposal to create a legal framework for sport, commissioner, regardless of when and if the constitutional treaty that provides for something similar is voted. these are the reasons why the european parliament must support the report on football, because it is universally felt that this will mean a change of attitude and a change of the established order, with the main axes being the protection of sport against hooliganism, racism and xenophobia, doping, equal treatment of large and small clubs in the management of community rights and the promotion of talent away from the trade in the importation of minors from third countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. it will harm europe and peace. it will lead to a new arms race. it will revive the cold war division. the american leadership is insultingly ignorant of the european union. it even bypasses nato. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr. solana's delayed half-speak is not enough. the council cannot pretend to be blind or deaf or pontius pilate! the european union must take a clear and immediate position. the european council can move quickly and press on by taking a clear position. i am pleased to note that almost all political groups agree with public opinion and oppose these plans of the bush leadership. my political group has asked for a resolution on this.
in writing. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of nations. the eu's foreign policy spokesman reiterated its intention to strengthen its imperialist role throughout the world. it is strengthening its militarization, speeding up the organization of its military structures and rapid reaction forces. the european union is also calling for the establishment of an independent protectorate in kosovo and is preparing to reinforce the euro-arab occupation by sending a force of 1,500 troops. it continues to strangle the palestinian people economically. it is creating a new cycle of imperialist interventions in belarus and ukraine. it is stepping up its interventionist policy in africa to increase the plunder of its resources and to counter the growing trade of its countries with china and india, particularly in the energy sector. in order to deal with popular opposition to the installation of us anti-missile systems in the czech republic and poland, it is drawn up by referring the matter to the competence of the member states, but leaving open the possibility that the decision on the installation will be taken within nato, behind the backs of the peoples. the awakening of the peoples, the intensification of their struggle must and can overthrow the imperialist plans of the eu, nato and the usa.
in writing. with the report on the future of the eu's own resources, the eu is preparing to extend the tax-cutting policy of member state governments. the burden of promoting the eu's anti-people policies will be paid even more dearly by the workers. key proposed measures such as the increase in vat and taxes on energy consumption from 2014 onwards will further disadvantage workers. in greece, the one-point increase in vat and the continuing price increases for energy have contributed to the increase in the dead-end of ordinary families. the corrections to the budgetary balances mentioned in the report have as their component the reduction of expenditure in the agricultural sector, i.e. the elimination of small and mediumsized farmers is presented as a fairer allocation of resources. at the same time, the eu's policy of ostensibly terrorism but in reality an attack on the individual rights and freedoms of peoples is being strengthened. the eu's communication policy is being prioritised, with the aim of cultivating 'european consciousness', i.e. the submission of workers to anti-people policies. the report talks about the indirect benefits that member states receive through eu policies. these are gifts from the capitalist eu to capital. the workers are constantly seeing their situation deteriorate.
in writing. with their accession, the 10 new member states have abolished compulsory export subsidies and duties on imports from the eu-15 member states, opening their markets to eu-15 exporters and investors, so eu-15 traders and manufacturers are expanding their purchases and investments in agriculture and food in the 10 new member states. the consequences are set out in the report, with a future reduction in agricultural holdings which means a massive clearing of small and mediumsized farmers in the new member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the industrialists in the old member states have benefited from enlargement, and the small and mediumsized farmers in the new and old member states have suffered, perhaps to a different degree. the report notes the insufficient number and role of cooperatives in the new member states and the non-existent share of farmers in the food processing industry. it is deliberately concealed that one of the main conditions the eu set for the former socialist states to join was the dissolution of the production cooperatives that dominated the agricultural economy and the privatization of the state-owned cooperative industries processing agricultural products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not yet in place. for these reasons, we are voting against the motion.
mr president, the president of the european council, chancellor merkel, recently said the following: i 'm not going to lie . we could have 1 - 2% more growth in europe if we could better shape the lives of small and mediumsized enterprises. i'll finish it. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out that, despite the verbal announcements, the practical effect of the strategy to improve the regulatory environment for better regulation of smes is meagre. and let me ask the commissioner here, mr president, for your sake, mr mccreevy, whether he supports increased access for european smes to public procurement in the context of the world trade organisation negotiations.
mr president, this year we are celebrating the year of equal opportunities for all, but many of our fellow citizens and disabled people do not enjoy equal opportunities in terms of their right to participate in insurance, such as accident insurance, unemployment insurance. this has the consequence that they cannot carry out other legal acts, for example, they cannot obtain a loan from the bank as uninsured persons. in the event of an accident their family may be reduced to poverty because the money will be paid from their own pocket. i therefore ask all the european institutions to help disabled people so that they can be insured for their disability or illness, as is the case for all our fellow citizens.
mr president, we need this regulation and we need it quickly, because medicine has advanced, there is progress and there are great expectations from innovative treatments. i don't think anything should be excluded. everything should be included in these rules; and the reason is very simple and very practical: does anyone think that if we in the european union prohibit the licensing of some innovative treatments that have been approved elsewhere, that the citizens of europe will not go and find these treatments? i prefer, most clearly, central authorization. and the only thing that i, personally, am demanding at this moment - and i think the regulation covers this - is a rigorous scientific evaluation of these innovative treatments with every safety. beyond that, if we fragment and stop getting permits from each member state, imagine what is going to happen to the european union. we have to be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the commission is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community is able to meet its obligations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so i don't understand why all this talk is happening when people are waiting for new treatments, when there are chronic diseases and when the expectations of patients are very high. i do not think we should be the obstacle to curing parkinson's disease, diabetes, certain cancers and so on the day after tomorrow. so, mr president, i think we should go ahead and vote on the rules of procedure as proposed by the committee on the environment, and i am of course against the two amendments by the committee on legal affairs.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fifty years of european history have taught us that peace, democracy, security, stability and prosperity are built on enlargement. the european union has been and must remain open to future enlargements. but to meet this challenge, it must be effective and functional. the efficiency and effectiveness of community policies, and particularly of cohesion policy, which expresses the principle of solidarity with the most vulnerable groups in regions of the union, is more necessary than ever. however, the effectiveness and functionality of a future cohesion policy will depend on the resources available to it. this should be clear in view of the mid-term review of the financial perspective for 2008-09. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders is a good one, but it is not enough to make it a reality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, to combat hiv/aids in the european union and in the neighbouring countries we need a comprehensive strategy to promote prevention both at community level and in these countries, but i would say also globally. the number of people infected with the aids virus and those living with aids is constantly increasing, and we are seeing about 12,000 new infections every day on a global scale. we have no vaccine to prevent the disease and treatments have not yet succeeded in curing it. so, following the ancient saying of hippocrates, "prevention is better than cure", our integrated strategies are about promoting effective prevention. the commissioner said that prevention can be achieved by information, and that is why we are taking the necessary precautions. in addition, we must take important steps to eliminate the prejudices associated with this disease. people infected with this virus are constantly faced with intolerance and discrimination. and of course, alongside these prevention efforts, we have to promote the areas of research and innovation that make it possible to have new medicines and possibly vaccines. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andrejevs, for the excellent work he has done. we have had a very good cooperation - and i thank him for that - and i think that this report really gives us the opportunity to make a great prevention strategy both in the european union and globally.
in writing. although we are against quotas for any agricultural product, because the eu puts obstacles in the way of the development of production that each member state could develop in accordance with its needs and possibilities, we are in favour of increasing the quotas for the production of potato starch for lithuania and poland. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a provocative injustice to the new member states to take only about 10% of the quotas, while they produce about 30% of the production. and today's proposal for an increase in duration and quantities is a partial correction for lithuania and poland. it is characteristic that, although poland is the leading potato producer in europe, the allocation of the quota it receives forces it to import potato starch because of the limitation of its production, and of course this means the disappearance of small and mediumsized farmers. similar problems exist in greece for other products, forcing our country, despite its soil and climate advantages in producing agricultural products, to import them, pushing the agricultural trade deficit into the millions of euros and forcing small and medium-sized farmers to be wiped out.
in writing. the commission's annual report on strategic priorities for the 2008 budget presents an effort to make the eu's capital budget more effective in better promoting its anti-people policies. studies are required to verify how effectively resources were used for the priorities of the peripheral imperialist eu. but it does not ask for data on unemployment, the displacement of small and medium-sized farmers, or other problems affecting the people in health, education and insurance, which are the result of the eu's anti-working class policy. they're asking for more budget for "emergencies". it is a margin for meeting the extraordinary needs of capital. all the anti-people policies of the european union are being intensified, as funding is being increased to promote the anti-working class strategy of lisbon and studies are expected on the review of the cap to accelerate the clearing of small and medium-sized farmers. the measures to suppress workers' resistance (increased eurojust expenditure) and to bring them under control are being strengthened by strengthening propaganda mechanisms. the financing of the eu's imperialist interventions is clearly prioritized. the peoples have experience of the 'peaceful' actions of subjugation of peoples in accordance with the interests of capital. in conclusion, this is a draft budget for 2008 that reinforces the aggressiveness of capital towards the people. we are voting against it and calling on the people to oppose it, because the allocation of resources reflects the reactionary policy of the eu.
in writing. the report on the fight against hiv/aids in the eu and neighbouring countries, 2006-2009 points to some positive aspects. it is not, however, as if the devil were making incense, that it refers to the need for the prevention, treatment and cure of hiv/aids by means of uniform, free and public modern health systems in the member states. it refuses to respond to the popular demand for free provision of all necessary medicines for patients. research to combat hiv/aids is part of the multinational's anti-people, cut and dried, 7th framework programme for research. the fight against hiv/aids requires integrated planning by the member states. the ngo action cannot play such a role. the request for aid to ngos is aimed at distracting workers from the responsibilities of the governments of the member states, from the modern needs of the people in the field of health. the burdens, through "voluntary contribution", fall back on the backs of the workers. the responsibility for combating hiv/aids is not individual, nor can partnerships with business be effective, because business is only interested in its profits. it is up to the workers collectively to fight and force governments to take comprehensive measures for prevention, research, and access to medicines and treatments that are now very expensive.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the third package of measures in the shipping sector is an important positive step. the 1974 athens convention, as amended by the 2002 protocol, should be implemented. unfortunately, only five member states have so far signed the protocol and 10 signatures are needed. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. greece is a world naval power; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve safety at sea, and it is therefore not the commission's role to be in the rear, but rather to take the lead in improving safety at sea. i am in favour of compulsory insurance to cover the passengers of ships. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised. however, at the same time, a further analysis of the costs of implementing the regulation and the sharing of these costs is necessary to avoid a disproportionate increase in fares and transport costs. in island countries such as greece, this aspect is very important. i personally and my political group say a clear 'yes' to the drawing up of a blacklist of shipowners and shipping companies, as well as a grey or black list of flag states. yes to more effective control of ships with stricter inspections. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. no to the unpaid shipowners. no to those who issue unreliable navigation certificates. the commission is also proposing to set up a permanent accident investigation agency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road.
madam president, recent events such as the sinking of the sea diamond in santorini, the anchoring of the napoli off the coast of britain, the collision of two ships in messina, italy and others, confirm our assessment that the safety of human life at sea is the greatest political and social problem of the shipping industry. the legislative framework through international conventions and regulations is unfortunately not helping to limit and solve the problem and is proving ineffective. the main cause of the problem is that the shipping companies, as well as the public and private bodies that control the navigability and commercial activity of ships, operate on a profit basis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's security is not compromised by the threat of nuclear weapons. the problem of safety is particularly acute on the second-rate flagged vessels. the life and work of seafarers at sea on under-manned and degraded ships is becoming modern slavery. the assessment made by the commission, the governments of the member states and the shipowners that the main factor responsible for maritime accidents is the human factor is extremely dangerous. it degrades the general condition of ships, the consequences of poor maintenance and the increasing age of ships. this undermines the responsibilities of the shipowners and the bodies involved in the certification of the navigability of ships. the responsibility of crews is compounded by the plans for the introduction of multiple duties - chiefly those of master and engineer - which put human life at sea in even greater danger. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. the upgrading of public maritime training, the determination of the organic composition of ships on the basis of actual needs and the reduction of working hours and the improvement of the working conditions of seafarers must be promoted. the solution cannot be found in a policy which sacrifices human lives and the environment at the expense of the shipowners' profits and uses seafarers as victims of its crimes. the bureaucratic and technocratic directives and regulations of the european union cannot really protect human life, the environment and the rights of workers effectively. we support the demands of the shipowners' movement for improved training, better working conditions for seafarers, control - with the participation of the workers - of the rules, construction and operation of ships and the establishment of emergency stations.
madam president, commissioner, three weeks ago you visited my country, greece. people in the maritime world have come to expect a great deal from you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. three days after you left, we had a tragic shipwreck just twenty yards from shore. a cruise ship carrying some 1,300 people sank sixty feet [20 m] off the most popular tourist island in greece, santorini. we had two frenchmen killed. that indicates something is wrong. he came out and the captain said, "it was my responsibility!" raise the rating of the captains! we cannot have this situation at the moment and not have additional interest. they move to the right side and both expose. but we have to ensure people's lives. at this moment there is an accident in the aegean and we do not know which agency will take over the search and rescue. things are fluid. so if the european union does not define where each sea belongs, then how can we have search and rescue? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. jobs are being lost. we have the most unemployed sailors. how do we secure a line of communication with the smaller islands? we have a thousand islands in greece! half of them are occupied! how will these people communicate with the center? so we're creating a country with a population that is treated unequally. all of this you have to see, cover. if you can't in this report, in your next report.
mr president, commissioner, with the seven legislative proposals in the erika iii package and the corresponding reports by the european parliament, we are taking another step as europe to increase safety in maritime transport, to combat marine pollution and to strengthen the rights of passengers in the event of a maritime accident. the proposed measures, such as strengthening ports of call, monitoring ships, investigating maritime accidents, strict and parallel control of ships by both flag and port states, increased inspections and improved standards for seafarers, and the extension of passenger compensation rights, are the necessary means to prevent maritime accidents and to deal with their consequences. the tragic sinking of the sea diamond cruise ship three weeks ago in greece, which resulted in the loss of two lives and caused marine pollution, has highlighted the scale of human negligence, but also the inadequacy of the state authorities' response to such incidents by driving the ship to port of refuge. i would like to congratulate the european commission and the rapporteurs of the committee on transport on their work and to wish that the adoption of the erika iii measures will prevent similar incidents in the future.
vice-president of the commission. first of all, i must say that the issue of schools in brussels is very complicated due to the large increase in pupils in recent years. all the main schools are overcrowded, so, as you probably know, the belgian authorities have designated an additional site for the next school in laeken. berkendael is a temporary site. so far, i have no information that parents have refused to accept the berkendael site. i know that there have been discussions but, as you know, the european schools are an autonomous entity managed by a board of governors, in which all member states are represented. all alternative sites and any proposals concerning the infrastructure of schools depend on the belgian authorities, for whom the issue of the social infrastructure for the european institutions has become increasingly difficult.
vice-president of the commission. we have tried to work with the belgian authorities to explore all possible sites. there are not too many sites in brussels which meet all the necessary requirements of this complicated task. so far this has been in the hands of the belgian authorities: they make proposals for annex sites and temporary sites and we cannot change a lot. we have tried to find other solutions together with the board of governors but so far that is fixed by the belgian authorities. with regard to category 3 and a possible ‘ghetto’ for european officials in category 3 schools – i am using a particular type of language that is very familiar to me – these are students who are not the children of staff in the european institutions. the children of staff in other international institutions are in what is known as category 2. category 3 involves free places which are allocated to children of other parents, based on availability. as i said, it is increasingly complicated to provide parents working in our institutions with the necessary places in our childcare facilities and schools. of course, under this framework of rules and conditions, we must give preference to our own staff - the children of those working in the european institutions. however, i fully agree with you that there is a problem and we must think of ways of developing the european school system. there are some additional ideas on how to make this system more flexible and to develop other types of schools, among which the most promising is the type 3 school, which is actually a type of european school. under certain conditions, these schools may provide the european baccalaureate certificate. this is the most promising part of this project and we cannot do without it. the system is in a very serious impasse, but this proposal was adopted by the member states at a council meeting involving representatives of ministers of education, in which i also participated. the basic idea is there, therefore, and we may have many more european schools providing the european baccalaureate as a particular type of education certificate, which would be a much more open system.
mr president, i take the opportunity offered by the honourable member's question today to ask whether children with various learning difficulties can be enrolled, taking into account their particularities, in school, but also those who are studying and are mainly students in less widely spoken languages such as greek. why are learning disabilities not taken into account, as in the legislation of the countries from which they come?
vice-president of the commission. i have only to say that we also have a good exchange of information and cooperation between the relevant services in the commission which concern building policy and the relevant services within parliament. we try, at least from the commission side, to have the intention of discussing issues, such as how we locate all our services together with parliament in brussels. of course the starting point must be efficiency and the most rational use of budgetary resources.
vice-president of the commission. i probably did not catch all the nuances of your question, but it must be said that, from the point of view of the commission, six of our buildings have received good marks from different certification agencies as regards their environmental requirements and energy efficiency. of course, we have more than 60 buildings at our disposal in brussels and some of them are very old and should be replaced, but six buildings have been commended for their energy efficiency. we also compare reductions in co2 in the buildings, which show that the new buildings are very good.
member of the commission. mr president, on this first question: in our community strategic guidelines for cohesion policy for 2007-2013, there is in fact an article which ensures equality between men and women, and non-discrimination in general. this provision clearly states that member states should take appropriate steps to prevent any discrimination at any stage of the management or the preparation of the european structural funds. in the course of the negotiations and of the monitoring of the programme and projects, the commission pays particular attention to ensuring that this cross-cutting principle of non-discrimination is fully respected. the commission implementing rules also contain the obligation for member states and regions to report on the implementation of the operational programmes, also with regard to the respect and promotion of equal opportunities principles in the context of the annual and final implementation reforms. with regard to the part of the question which refers to the less-favoured areas, countries and regions, cohesion policy takes a very strongly proactive approach towards the problem of poverty, which is certainly higher within those less-favoured countries and regions. through the allocation method, this policy provides those less-favoured regions and countries with relatively higher financial resources. also in the course of the programming and implementation of programmes, we also emphasise growth and job creation, supporting investment. within the european social fund in particular, we pursue very specific actions which are targeted to reinforcing the social inclusion of disadvantaged people with a view to their sustainable integration and employment. for the period 2007-2013 we have also done the categorisation of investment, which we use to monitor the programming. then we will also monitor the implementation. in this categorisation of expenditures there are also several categories related to discrimination. for example, in the operational programmes we already have measures that are already visible at this stage to improve access to employment and increase the sustainable participation and progress of women at the level of eur 2.7 billion to be invested across europe. with regard to the specific actions to increase migrants’ participation in employment, this is eur 1.9 billion. there is also a category for improving the social inclusion of less-favoured people, especially the re-entry into employment of disadvantaged people. we already see today that across the member states there will be nearly eur 8 billion invested in the years to come in this category, addressing the concerns that you have expressed in your question.
member of the commission. i would like to say briefly that, with regard to london, we hope to reach a solution with the authorities very soon. i hope that the suspension will soon be lifted, once all the changes we are awaiting from the authorities are made. i take on board your concerns about the disadvantaged areas of london. two years ago, i visited one of the special programmes devoted to disadvantaged people and migrants in london. i hope that we will be able to address your concern soon.
member of the commission. i cannot tell you today exactly how much will go towards water treatment in disadvantaged areas, but certainly one of the priorities under the first objective of the european policy – the accessibility of the regions – is also addressing environmental issues. among the environmental issues there is also the issue of access to water and water problems in all their diversity. if you are interested, i am sure that probably in a couple of weeks i can provide the more specific information on how much of the funds will go towards this kind of investment, but it is very high on our list of priorities. at this stage i can only say this.
member of the commission. as far as i understand, the question concerns equal opportunities and the island regions. as you know, the policy’s priority is to reduce socio-economic disparities between the regions and we do so through the allocation of available financial resources to the regions on the basis of their relative prosperity. however, we also examine the kinds of investment needed. we support growth-enhancing investment in the case of the less-advantaged regions, such as islands, in order to address their concerns. for the period 2007-2013 we have recognised the special situation of certain territories – not only islands but also sparsely populated and mountainous areas. we have proposed specific provisions, one of which is a higher cofinancing rate, but there are also additional financial allocations for many of those disadvantaged areas. we have also included a specific chapter in our strategic guidelines to focus member states’ attention on the territorial dimension of cohesion policy, in which we have underlined and emphasised the importance of those territorial units suffering from different kinds of handicaps. at this stage of the negotiations with the member states, we are also ensuring that specific constraints which exist in those areas and islands are duly taken into account by the member states, especially in the preparation of the operational programmes and adoption of measures for the following ten years. we have already carried out a preliminary assessment of the programmes presented to the commission for the negotiations to see to what extent islands will be beneficiaries in the future. so far, the commission has earmarked eur 3.6 billion for islands. there is also a specific allocation for the outermost regions, which are also islands, and this will be eur 3.8 billion. we have also agreed with our colleagues responsible for espon in luxembourg to work on better indicators for those disadvantaged areas, in order to have more up-to-date information on those specific territories. in other portfolios too, especially that of commissioner kroes, who is responsible for state aid, we have asked for special treatment for small islands as regards aid to help business start-ups. a 5% bonus is offered to those islands. the second part of your question states that those areas remain in a disadvantaged position compared to other territories. i must say that the performance of those territories so far has not been uniform and negative. we have a range of studies that clearly demonstrate that many of those areas, in particular islands, suffer rather from their size and demography than from their specific geographical location. many areas have experienced a significant improvement. madeira, the canary islands and also areas of greece, such as notio aigaio, have clearly caught up well. i wanted to make a lengthy reply, because many people come to us with the same concerns about those disadvantaged territories. they are very close to our heart. we really care about the situation in those regions and we can also see some results. that said, i know that there is still a long way to go and we need your cooperation in this area.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for her reply. i would like to stress that, in order to achieve uniform growth throughout europe, there must be a special focus on designing programmes to bring growth to areas which are still disadvantaged. because, apart from madeira, which you mentioned, there are other islands that cannot even have a sea link with any centre. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
member of the commission. we negotiate with greece also now the national as well as the operational programmes. what we see there is that the authorities now propose also a special priority which is accessibility, especially for islands, so i hope that, within the operational programme that is addressing the greek island territory, priority will also be given to helping with the accessibility of the islands. we clearly know the problems also with the accessibility of islands. we are sensitive to this and when there is this proposal, we are very responsive in a positive way also to do this, to work on this with you as well. i do not know if you have any more specific requests for information related to a specific territory. we would in that case be very happy later on to receive the information on the specific concerns you are referring to.
mr president, the world's tourist destinations are certainly not a comparison. we are talking about island groups in europe, we are talking about island regions in greece, cut off from the continental centre, cut off from the european central trunk. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not distorted by the fact that the community is not able to take action in the fisheries sector. regional policy and cohesion policy for island regions cannot be part of the whole. the commission's proposal is to set up a european regional policy, which will be based on the principle of subsidiarity, and to set up a european regional policy. that's my suggestion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. climate change and the energy crisis facing the european union make it imperative for the community to take action and develop a well-structured strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources that is at least in line with the requirements set out in the sixth environment action programme. i would like to stress the need for a strategy aimed at making more efficient use of natural resources, improving their management and waste management, with a view to adopting more sustainable production methods and consumption patterns, and decoupling resource use and waste generation from the pace of economic development on the one hand, and ensuring that their use does not exceed the potential burden on the environment that can be tolerated on the other. i think you have put it right, commissioner. the foundations are already laid.
mr president, not long ago bush said directly to europe in particular: 'whoever is not with me is against me.' that's a phrase not even hitler said. so we forget about this blackmailer and run around begging for a partnership? has congress passed a similar resolution for us? can we forget the behaviour of this agency, this nation, with the secret flights over europe? what cooperation do we propose to european industry and economy when america is unprofitable? our industries are subject to the kyoto rules, but american industries are not. how can there be cooperation? how can we cooperate when we have a very expensive currency and we cannot export anything, while the americans can? if we want to go into a partnership, into a transatlantic trade, we have to adjust the two currencies. we can't have that superiority. nothing is sold in the world except american products. if we really want to see the dreams of europe, of freedom, of democracy, of international relations, come true, we must call for the resignation of wolfowitz and the resignation of bush.
mr president, as is well known, the european union and the united states are leading players in global trade policy. as a member of the committee on international trade, i would like to say that the coordination and the smooth and functional relationship between the two partners does not produce only bilateral positive results. it is spreading to the wider multilateral trading system, affecting the global trade balance, not in terms of political power, but in terms of economic interdependence. the more trade policy convergence is strengthened, the more visible its impact on international economic and political cooperation will be. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wto is not a mere instrument of the multilateral trading system, but a means of ensuring that the wto is a multilateral trading system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what would be the consequences for other countries, especially developing countries?
in writing. the directive is an attempt to bring back from the deadline the basic reactionary provisions of the "european constitution" condemned by the peoples. the european commission and the european parliament are openly trying to abolish the principle of unanimity among the member states for the adoption of criminal measures at eu level, thus undermining one of the basic principles of the national sovereignty of its member states. on the other hand, the very content of the directive, adopted by the now well-known 'holy alliance' of the epp, the socialists and the liberals in the european parliament, is nothing but compliance with the provocative demands of the monopolies to make their dominance in the field of intellectual creation unhindered. by deliberately blurring the definitions of the 'crimes' of copyright infringement, by imposing exhaustive penalties (minimum prison term of 4 years and a fine of at least eur 300,000) and by unprecedentedly privatising criminal proceedings by introducing the participation of large companies in judicial and police investigations into infringements of their rights, the asphyxiating control of monopolies in all areas of intellectual creation is being attempted. the eu goes so far as to criminalise workers' free access to intellectual creations in order to stifle this area of human creativity, in the interests of profitability for eu capital.
the agenda includes the joint debate on - the report by mr simon coveney, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on human rights in the world in 2006 and the eu's rights policy [2007/2020(ini) ] (a6-0128/2007) and - the council and commission statements on the status of the death penalty.
the president of the council. there are, of course, different developments in the european union, and there is no need to distinguish between the old and the new member states. we have found that in some member states, for many years, a reasonable infrastructure has been built up - this was a policy objective - while other countries are lagging behind. in the east german länder, a different structure existed even before reunification, and there are corresponding institutions. of course, we in the eastern german länder are faced with another problem, namely the question of depopulation, of moving out of certain areas because the economic situation is not what people have imagined. it is a general task for the member state of germany to find a way to ensure full-time care and care for young children under three years of age. the german bundestag is currently discussing how we can achieve the objectives we set ourselves in the context of barcelona.
i would like to point out, madam president, that the family cannot be replaced by structures of safeguarding, but only supplemented. i would therefore like to ask about the quality of the service provided, that is, how can it be ensured and how can we know that the staff of these institutions will have the ability to detect possible learning difficulties or other illnesses, in order to protect children during their development, but also to ensure them a good educational future in the course of their development.
the president of the council. it is not a question of requiring parents to send their children to childcare facilities, but simply that parents - and in some member states, mainly women - should have the choice of choosing whether to pursue a profession, perhaps out of economic necessity. you should also find appropriate childcare facilities. it is not for the presidency to judge their equipment or quality. each member state will ensure that staff are trained to cope with the tasks ahead.
the president of the council. first of all, i would like to point out that the amendment to the directive on television without frontiers will be adopted by the codecision procedure. the european parliament, as co-legislator, is therefore entitled to influence the content of the legislative act, as is the council. the specific concerns you have raised have been taken into account by the council in the context of the revision of the directive. in particular, the council envisages extending the scope of the directive to include new on-demand services and services offered through new distribution platforms such as mobile networks and the internet, in order to ensure that appropriate legislation on the protection of minors and the prohibition of incitement to hatred is applied. the council considered that the revised directive should recognise that co-regulation and self-regulation instruments can make a significant contribution to this. you know that the final scope of the revision must be agreed with parliament. i also made it clear again yesterday at the meeting of presidents that the presidency is very interested in reaching a rapid decision together with the european parliament.
i would like to ask the council representative, madam president, about the free market and free competition in such products and the obstacles that this directive may create by prohibiting certain products which are dangerous for children. i would also like to ask whether there will be any arrangements in trade relations with third countries to ensure that imported products are subject to controls.
the president of the council. as far as i know, no council would make an assessment here. firstly, it is an entrepreneurial decision by private companies. it's not building the federal republic of germany. consortia from germany with dutch shares are building or want to build it. if proceedings are instituted and the member states have to verify for their own territory whether the construction project complies with these rules or if the applicant does not agree with this decision, then, of course, the national courts will be the first to be called upon.
the president of the council. the council as such is not involved in initiatives related to the leipzig charter for a sustainable european city and the eu's territorial agenda. these initiatives are taken by the member states in an informal framework. the leipzig charter and the eu territorial agenda are proposals by european ministers of spatial and urban development to better take account of urban and territorial realities in the implementation of eu policies, for example in how an integrated spatial and urban development policy can contribute to the lisbon and gothenburg goals of more sustainable economic growth and strengthening the european social model . the results of the informal ministerial meeting will therefore be sent to all the european institutions. the latter can then examine on their own responsibility the extent to which taking account of urban and territorial concerns is helpful in achieving their policy objectives.
madam president, i would like to thank the minister for his answer. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would therefore ask the minister to clarify further the orientations of such a spatial agenda, how the german presidency sees it and how it is to be included in its programme by the end of june.
mr president, is it true that to deal with the impoverished migrants or to save those drowning at sea in search of a better life, you need rapid intervention teams, well equipped, with the right to make arrests, who carry weapons, who have the right to use weapons in the name of self-defence, who use violence, who are selective, who have advanced technological equipment and who act as a military force? really, you expect us to believe that's why these powers are used? we believe that both this regulation and this report reveal the very nature of your policy, which is aggressive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why we disagree. the arguments that these groups will confront the mafia, i think, undermine common sense. if there is political will, all these smugglers can be found and this mafia can be dealt with. how do the illegal immigrants find them and the various police departments can't? but there is no political will, because this mafia is feeding european capital with cheap meat, with cheap labour, which is immigrants. and if you really want and care about saving illegal immigrants, why don't you give more money to create national bodies that can intervene and save such lives? we disagree. we consider this to be undemocratic, to be moving in a direction of repression, as is your overall policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to submit reports on their provisions, including the views of the social partners. i therefore welcome your present proposal, commissioner, as it is in line with the objectives of the other policies of the european union, particularly as regards improving the regulatory framework in order to increase the competitiveness of enterprises. this proposal has added value in that it allows - through a single report every five years - a better assessment of the impact of community provisions in the field of health, safety at work and hygiene services, since the reduction of accidents at work is an urgent need and occupational diseases must be combated in order to bring benefits to workers, businesses and society in general. i congratulate the rapporteur for working with the political groups, reaching agreement with the council and succeeding in including in the recitals one of my amendments concerning the use of the work of the european agency for safety and health at work in bilbao and the foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in dublin in the context of the evaluation of national policies on health and safety at work. it is important that the european commission takes into account the findings of these two bodies in order to draw up the basic questionnaire for member states to replace the numerous reports. the question is whether the reduction in quantity leads to an improvement in quality. we hope so.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for giving us the opportunity to have such a long debate on disabled people in general, but particularly on disabled women. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. but how much of what we propose here in parliament is actually being implemented? how do they affect the policies they target in the region? how much are the specific special cases of disability served, whether the disability is long and visible or short and invisible? how much of the new technologies, the new treatments are programmed for the disabled? how do we ensure they receive humane treatment? how the european structural funds are used to support the lives of disabled people, especially disabled women, taking into account that they have full but special rights in education and in work and in life. as mrs breyer has so well said, disabled women also want to have a full family life. and of course, we have to consider that women are also the ones who care for the disabled. and they have rights in order to offer. are we ensuring that women carers of disabled people are able to use the skills they acquire in this occupation for reuse? do we recognize the service of women within the family, within the school and within the community? do we acknowledge their voluntary offer? we are given today an opportunity not only to vote but to see how - by concrete measures - we can achieve everything we want for disabled women.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, it is somewhat ironic and tragic that those who made zimbabwe a colony, those who plundered its natural resources all these years, are now fighting for its independence and freedom. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its concern about zimbabwe. why are human rights being violated? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we should tell the truth. because great britain dreams of making it a colony again and because the other great countries of the european union dream of new colonies on the african continent. this is the reality. and zimbabwe's independence was won by a brutal and bloody struggle against the british colonialists. is there a problem ? of course there are. is that the situation you describe? of course it is. but it is the result of long-term colonialism, it is the result of the measures imposed over the years by the european union and other imperialist countries, measures aimed at economic strangulation and political isolation of the zimbabwean regime. in the final analysis, whether and how the situation in zimbabwe will change is a matter for its people and neither the european union nor anyone else has the right to interfere in its internal affairs. today there is a plan that has been in the making for many, many years. what does this plan say? financing and buying the opposition. millions are given to various individuals who are presented as political opponents of the regime. the non-governmental organizations are funded by salaried employees who represent nothing in zimbabwean society. there are sanctions, and at the same time great britain is not respecting the agreements it had with zimbabwe. even illegal arms dealing was taking place and margaret thatcher's son had been arrested; and that's well known and it's been written in all the papers. we therefore believe that the european union has no right to intervene in zimbabwe or any other country. the problems that exist are the responsibility of the people themselves to solve them in the way they choose. that is why we are voting against the joint resolution and we are very sorry that, although you are aware that all the measures you are taking and the embargo you are imposing on zimbabwe are having the effect of worsening the situation and killing thousands of people, you are continuing the same barbaric policy.
i'm the editor. madam president, the need to develop eu-russia relations and to forge a new dynamic strategic partnership, as geoeconomic and geostrategic realism demands, cannot dampen and cancel out our criticism of the continuing violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in russia. i understand and appreciate the european union's 'realpolitik' towards russia; the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, madam president, i believe it is necessary to place the question of human rights at the top of the european union's priorities and in the context of the enhanced political dialogue with russia and its political leadership. the first opportunity is the summit on 17 may and the meeting with president putin. i would like to point out something else. it would be a serious political mistake for the european union to identify human rights in russia and the situation there with only certain circles openly financed by certain russian political refugees of the well-known oligarchic clique. the recent statements by berezovsky in london are indicative of the intentions of certain circles.
i'm the editor. madam president, allow me to express my regret too. another journalist, who has the courage to do his job in difficult and dangerous conditions, is kidnapped, depriving us of the information that we politicians and the international public can have about the tragic conditions prevailing in the region. i hope that the mobilization of public opinion and the political leadership in the palestinian territories, and the effectiveness of the national unity government, which must be made more visible day by day, will contribute to the release of the journalist alan johnston, the disclosure of those responsible and the accountability of those responsible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the context of the international treaties and our bilateral relations with the palestinian authority, we will convey this concern and will exert all possible pressure - if the matter has not yet been resolved - to secure the release of alan johnston and to ensure as many guarantees as possible for the safety of the local citizens and visitors to the area.
i would like to take this opportunity, mr president, to refer to the report by my good friend mr andria, and in particular to a specific issue concerning the energy efficiency of buildings, an obligation which arises from the provisions of directive 2002/91. this directive places a significant burden on owners to obtain the certificate they need when selling or renting their home, because the building must first be upgraded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i think we should therefore discuss this by extending the provisions currently in place for the new member states so that the 2009 revision also covers the old member states, commissioner. we have an experience in the city of athens, with the upgrading of the facades of buildings where, in cooperation with the european union and with partial financing from it, this project has progressed with good results, with technical assistance at central level and with partial coverage of the costs. i think that the same logic should be applied to the question of energy efficiency in buildings throughout europe. it is a very serious matter, which concerns many people. we are not talking about total cost coverage, but i think we should have a serious discussion about it and see how we can go about extending the eligibility of expenditure to deal with this serious issue as well.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the new programming period, regional policy must not only reduce inequalities but also develop the union's capacity for innovation. given that all innovation action must be people-centred and aimed at improving the quality of life for all its citizens, our ability to meet this challenge will depend to a large extent on achieving equal access opportunities at all levels of education. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. the objectives we have set are ambitious and to achieve them we need the cooperation of all of us.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on public passenger, rail and road transport is another attack on the people's income, the rights of workers and, more generally, of passengers on public transport. after the liberalisation of maritime and shipping transport by the anti-people eu law 3577/92, of air and rail passenger transport, it is now the turn of the privatisation of local means of transport - road and rail - to multiply the profits of capital. the big capitalists are taking over the daily transport of workers by tram, metro, suburban railways and buses, with high ticket prices and a stack of state subsidies to private, monopolistic transport companies, with particularly negative consequences for safety and quality, for the workers, the users of these means, the working class family. the consequences of the privatisation of public transport, as demonstrated by the experience of urban centres already in operation, as well as the experience of liberalisation of coastal and air transport, are particularly negative for remote areas and the poorest layers of the population. the workers are also opposing the anti-people policy of the european union in the transport sector. we are fighting for public, modern, high-quality transport, with cheap tickets, which will serve the needs of the working-class family, which is why we are voting against the relevant eu regulation.
mr. president, if someone showed up in your constituency and took your name and ran against you with your name on it, wouldn't that bother you? i think that would bother anyone. this is what is happening today with vardaska, which is taking the name macedonia, a historical name that this country, greece, has had for three thousand years. and yesterday the american president comes and says himself: "i decide and order to give the name ... " without asking europe. we greeks are bothered by this. we greeks have always been a people, a country, which has given everything to europe: we have given the olympic games, philosophy, ancient theatre, whenever we have been asked, we have given culture. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not forced to accept the decisions of the council of ministers. everyone needs to understand that this is a sensitive issue. i have maps from the last century that name the area vardaska. go to any charity, you'll see stamps with the name vardaska. finally, we must not let history take away our heroes, alexander the great, philip. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the commission has recently announced the improvement of the restructuring regime in the sugar sector, recognising that no attractive incentives were given to non-competitive producers to leave the sector. the commission has therefore put forward a new proposal to reduce sugar production in the european union to acceptable levels, as the commission claims. i would remind you that the european parliament had asked for 50% of the restructuring aid per tonne of quota abandoned to be paid to producers. at the same time, the commission should develop a specific programme to increase the use of biofuels by providing alternatives in the sugar sector and effectively supporting energy crops in the european union. and one last thought: as confirmed by the recent ruling of the european court of justice on the cotton regime, the commission needs to assess the impact of the proposed reforms in depth. it is confirmed that it did not do so in the case of the restructuring of the sugar regime.
madam president, i too would like to join my feeble voice to those european citizens who, seeing the dream of a pan-european treaty, a treaty of european union, being revived, would like to see this historical truth of europe's origins referred to. they would like to point out that the roots of our culture lie in ancient greek and roman culture and in christian values which became universal values by changing their name. the recording of this historical truth is not contrary to the secularism and liberal ideas that we all have as europeans.
the one-minute interventions are over.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by bernadette vergnaud, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the impact and consequences of the exclusion of health services from the services directive in the internal market (2006/2275 (ini)) (a6-0173/2007).
mr. president, the provision of health care is a public good and cannot be left to the mercy of the free market, the appropriate framework to address patient mobility exists: it is regulations 1408 and 883 of 2004. all problems can be solved within that framework, not by overturning it. the bollenstein approach to health services will lead to a deterioration in the quality of health services, to a squeeze of public services in favour of private ones and, of course, to a reduction in health protection for the most vulnerable. the attempt to 'reverse-trace' the entry of health services into the bolkestein directive with the famous mander's directive or with the amended directive being marketed behind the scenes must be categorically rejected. for the european parliament, which voted otherwise on this matter a few months ago, the position is a serious matter of credibility and consistency. i hope we don't say anything else this time.
mr president, health is not and cannot be treated as a commodity which should be subject to market and competitive conditions. health has a mission of common benefit and therefore must meet a number of criteria such as quality, accessibility, universality and solidarity. we must immediately stop the attempt to extend the logic of the market to the health service sector under the pretext of modernisation, which was facilitated in its own way by the wfd and is now being brought back into the fore by the advocates of economic liberalism. this is unfortunately partly the case with social services. let's not let it happen here again. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission must dare, it must use its right of legislative initiative and propose a sectoral directive on health services. it must dare to propose a framework directive on the regulation of social services of general interest. and you, dear colleagues of the right-wing majority, have once again contributed to the union's lack of credibility. because you have suddenly brought up the issue of health services being covered by the services directive, known as bolkenstein. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the health of the citizens of europe is not a commodity. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
member of the commission. madam president, i shall be very brief because i do not disagree, but it all depends on the context. i shall not go into the legal argument now, but we will take everything into account. i have said from the beginning, and i do not hesitate to say this publicly, that i believe policy decisions should be taken by the policymakers, not by the courts. we will have the opportunity to discuss a specific proposal, but always bear in mind the parts of the court’s judgments that interpret the treaty. when it is the treaty, which is the ultimate legal instrument in the european union, legislation has to comply with that. when it is not the treaty, we have flexibility. however, as i have said, we have legal services to advise us on that. let us agree on the policies first and then we will find a legal way of doing it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 23 may.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr adamou adamou, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on halting biodiversity loss by 2010 (2006/2233 (ini)) (a6-0089/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to apologise on behalf of commissioner dimas, who regrettably could not be here today. it was precisely one year ago that the commission adopted its communication on halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 and beyond. given that tomorrow is international biodiversity day, it is a fitting time for parliament to debate its report. i am pleased that parliament is using this opportunity to send a clear message to the world on the importance of protecting the planet’s biodiversity. the theme of this year’s international biodiversity day is ‘biodiversity and climate change’. i have said before, and wish to underline today, that biodiversity loss is as great a threat to the planet as climate change. like climate change, biodiversity loss is an economic problem, a social problem and a growing threat to global security. both issues are closely linked. climate change is a major force behind species loss while at the same time the loss of ecosystems contributes to climate change. fighting climate change is now at the heart of the european project and is at the top of national political agendas. unfortunately, the same is not yet true for biodiversity loss. perhaps the threat is less apparent, but when we stop to look at the facts the situation is every bit as worrying. human activities mean that extinction rates are already between 100 and 1000 times the natural background rate – around 30 000 species a year, or three species every hour. if this process remains unchecked, we will have erased millions of years of evolution within the next few decades. this dramatic species loss matters because it weakens ecosystems of which species are the building blocks. the un’s 2005 millennium ecosystem assessment has two key messages. the first is that we are all ultimately dependent on ecosystem services, such as raw materials, medicines and clean water, for our prosperity and wellbeing. the second is that ecosystems are being fragmented, degraded and destroyed to the extent that some two thirds of the services that we receive from ecosystems are in decline. combined with environmental threats such as climate change, increasing population levels and increasing per capita consumption, this means the pressures on species and ecosystems are intensifying. without urgent action we will soon reach a point of dangerous and irreversible change in global ecosystems, just as without action we will soon reach a point of dangerous climate change. as with climate change, the window of opportunity to prevent dangerous ecosystem change is rapidly closing. last year’s biodiversity communication represents a first attempt by the european union to set out a coherent response to the problem of biodiversity loss. it should be seen as one of the most important policy documents issued by the barroso commission, and there are two innovations which are of particular significance. the first is that the communication introduces the concept of ecosystem services into the eu-level debate. it highlights the extent to which these services are essential to our prosperity and wellbeing and makes the vital link between biodiversity loss and the decline of those services. the second innovation is that the communication sets out a very specific action plan for the period 2007-2013. the action plan is an important step forward since it spells out what needs to be done both at community level and at member state level. it is only through complementary actions at these two levels that we will be able to make the necessary progress. the action plan also makes it clear what needs to be done to meet the european union’s commitments to halt the loss of biodiversity in the eu, and to reduce significantly the rate of loss worldwide, by 2010. with the inclusion of a process for regular evaluations against a clear set of targets, both the commission and the member states can be held to account on its delivery. i am very pleased to know that parliament’s report welcomes the communication and its action plan. i wish to thank the rapporteur mr adamou for his efforts, and mr berman and mr gklavakis from the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on fisheries respectively for their contributions. the report echoes the equally warm reactions of the council, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, as well as that of environmental ngos. it seems we have a broad consensus on what needs to be done. the challenge now is changing this political support into real actions on the ground. there can scarcely be a more important question for any parliament to debate than the survival of life on earth. i urge you to use this opportunity to send a clear message on the gravity of biodiversity loss and the need for full and vigorous implementation at all levels of the biodiversity communication and its action plan.
the committee on fisheries adopted an opinion on the proposal. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr adamous on his excellent work. i would not like to congratulate the national governments who in 2001 committed themselves to taking some measures that they did not take and so biodiversity continues to decline and we continue to lose organisms. as mr. borg said, every hour we lose three species from our planet. the un figures indicate that 54% of freshwater organisms in the european union are threatened with extinction. this downgrade is due to a number of reasons. two are the most important: water pollution and overfishing. we have a responsibility as well as the fishermen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. for let us not forget that in the last 15 years alone, 55,000 tons of oil have been spilled in the mediterranean by maritime accidents. the second objective must be to increase fish stocks. we must understand one thing: we must catch as many fish as the sea can replenish. if we fish too much, we are committing an environmental crime. and use good fishing practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the mediterranean is a region of 27 countries, seven of which are members of the european union. and third countries often do too much damage. reducing overfishing and using good fishing practices. otherwise we are committing a crime against the future of our children.
member of the commission. madam president, let me first start with my appreciation for the quality of this evening’s debate. i am also greatly encouraged by the report and would like to comment in particular on three of the issues. first of all, you welcomed the conceptual approach of the communication, which places an emphasis on the link between biodiversity loss and the decline of ecosystem services. you recognise the vital importance of healthy ecosystems for prosperity and wellbeing. you suggest that the main tenets of ecosystem services should become a fundamental goal of all eu horizontal and sectoral policies and you call on the commission to study and make proposals for practical measures to internalise the cost of biodiversity loss. we are already working on these matters and i would like to highlight a new initiative of the commission and the german presidency to prepare an economic review of the costs of biodiversity loss similar to the stern review on the economics of climate change. i believe that such a review could prove a turning point. by raising awareness of the costs of inaction, we will have an opportunity to focus political opinion on the need for unprecedented action to halt the loss of biodiversity. second, i would highlight your opinions on the theme of biodiversity and climate change. you stress the importance of an ecosystem approach to climate change adaptation. third, you recognise that the action plan is a vital tool to bring together those involved at community and member state levels to meet the 2010 commitments. what matters now is the extent to which this action plan is actually implemented. on the point raised by the rapporteur with regard to alien species, let me say that work is ongoing, and if gaps are identified that warrant new legislation at community level, then we will consider the need for proposals in due course. indeed, in my area of responsibility, a proposal for a council regulation on the use of alien species in aquaculture is ready for adoption. on the issue of financing, i would like to state that in 2004 the commission proposed that future community co-financing for natura 2000 should be integrated into the major financial instruments. also, provision has been made for nature biodiversity funding in life+, community international development cooperation funds and in the seventh framework programme for research. however, let me underline that the communication points out that the financial decision of the european council in december 2005 influences the funding available under these instruments. it makes clear that member states will need to ensure adequate funding also through own-resources. regarding the target of halting biodiversity loss in the eu by 2010, although time is fast approaching, achieving this target is possible, but will require accelerated implementation at both community and member state levels. regarding the points on fisheries, which is my own area of responsibility, i cannot agree more with mr gklavakis that we need sustainable fisheries and we need to work in this direction both in community waters and in international oceans and seas. i would like to say in this regard that the targets and actions for biodiversity in the field of fisheries policy, as laid down in the communication, are fully consistent with the common fisheries policy and most of them are already in our work programme for the coming years. i can quote a number of examples of the common fisheries policy’s contribution to the protection of biodiversity, for example the recovery plans for several stocks of fish, the catch and fishing effort limitations, legislation to protect cetaceans against by-catch and protecting habitats, such as deep-sea coral reefs, and the mediterranean regulation, which was adopted last year, contains important provisions to reduce the impact of fishing on the seabed. more measures are in the pipeline. i could mention the march 2007 communication with regard to gradually reducing unwanted catches and eliminating discards in european fisheries. it involves the adoption of a progressive fishery-by-fishery discard ban and the setting of standards for maximum acceptable by-catch. work is also progressing on the extension of the natura 2000 network to marine areas in coordination with dg environment and on the fight against iuu fisheries. on eel stocks, i intend to go back to the council in june, and i agree that this time round the regulation needs to be adopted without any further watering down.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the report by marie anne isler béguin, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the financial instrument for the environment (life+) (pe-cons 3611/2007 c6 0105/2007 2004/0218 ((cod)) (a6-0180/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, i am pleased to note that the amendments under discussion are supportive of the proposed environmental quality standards as put forward by the commission. furthermore, the principles of introducing the new concept of the transitional areas of exceedance and the establishment of the inventory seem also to be acceptable to the european parliament. i thank you for this support because i believe that these elements are the cornerstones of the proposed daughter directive. in addition, there are many amendments in relation to which i fully share the underlying intentions and objectives. let me say, first, that i too am concerned about the potential risk that some of the priority substances pose. i understand that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety proposes that 11 of these chemicals should become new priority hazard substances in amendments 53-62. i believe that we can already manage these risks and avoid negative impacts on human health and the environment by implementing reach and other community legislation. i would also like to stress that i share the worries that new emerging pollutants are increasingly being detected in the waters we drink or bathe in. i understand that the environment committee proposes, in amendments 65, 68 and 78, the addition to the priority list of 30 new chemicals not previously included in the water framework directive. the commission is working on several initiatives, including the collection of recent monitoring data for these and other substances. the commission will report to you on the outcome of these initiatives in 2008 as part of the review of the priority list that the commission will be proposing. third, there are many amendments which set out a link with other relevant legislation or which place additional tasks and obligations on the commission. although the commission is not in a position to accept any of these amendments, mainly for reasons of legal clarity, the commission fully shares their underlying intentions and objectives in many cases. depending on further negotiations, i am committed to using the available resources in the commission to address the concerns that the european parliament expresses through those amendments. on the point raised concerning the possible conflict between international conventions, like helcom, and new legislation, i can reassure mr lax that there is and will be consistency between international conventions and eu legislation. this house is currently debating the marine protection directive, which will use existing regional agreements, such as helcom, as the key implementation platforms, thus ensuring consistency. in summary, on the proposed daughter directive, i am pleased to say that the commission can support 30 amendments fully, in part or in principle. i will give parliament’s secretariat a list detailing the commission’s position on the amendments see annex.. finally, a number of additional points have been raised during this debate. i assure you that i have taken good note of them and will forward your ideas, positions and concerns to commissioner dimas, who will certainly give them studied consideration.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, combating violence in all its forms, and in particular against women, young people and children, is an important priority for the european commission and for me personally. the daphne programme is indeed a key element of the commission’s effort to combat violence in europe and give support to victims of violence. since the first daphne initiative in 1997, daphne has funded around 460 projects. this represents a very important european contribution. this year, 2007, marks the 10th anniversary of the daphne programme. i am very glad that the daphne iii programme is now ready to be adopted. this new programme will allow the commission to strengthen its actions to combat violence and that is why – and i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mrs gröner – i agreed from the very beginning to keep the daphne project separate from any other european programmes, for example the one dealing with drugs. daphne iii will run from 2007 to 2013 with a total budget, as the rapporteur has said, of more than eur 116 million, which is an increase of more than 50 % compared with the daphne ii programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the european parliament for the strong support it has shown throughout this process. i look forward to further collaboration with you in our joint fight against violence. i take note of the very interesting idea of establishing a european year against violence towards women and children. i would just like to highlight one point. combating violence and protecting women and children is of course a question of awareness-raising, but it is also a question of improving operational cooperation on the exchange of information. so the idea of having a proper forum where ideas and contributions can be exchanged is a very good one. we confirm our commitment – and i personally confirm my commitment – to exploring a better way of addressing the issue of violence against women as far as the legal basis is concerned. unfortunately, we have thus far been a bit limited on the legal basis, but i can confirm my personal commitment to trying to find a better legal basis to expand the substantial scope for combating violence. i think that proper implementation of daphne iii will give us good suggestions and ideas which can be translated into practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. there is no doubt, commissioner, that it is a fundamental right of european citizens and those living in the european union to enjoy conditions of freedom, security, justice and protection of their health. but the day-to-day reality calls into question the success of these goals as the presence of violence is perceived in both private and public spaces. the manifestation of violence is undoubtedly an instinctive reaction which can be overcome if the values and principles imposed by living together in an orderly state prevail in every human conscience and if human life and dignity are regarded as the supreme principle and supreme value not comparable with any other good. as the shadow rapporteur of the european people's party, i congratulate mrs gröner and all those who contributed to the formulation of the common position for the adoption of the new programme and believe that the generous funding will add value to the results of the actions of the successful implementation of the daphne programmes over the past ten years and to the initiatives of the member states to promote values and prevent violence while supporting victims. i can call the new combination of the proposal and the possibilities for cooperation between the member states and the european institutions a success. my remarks are confined to their application. combined multi-level actions whose main objective is to educate and create a social conscience which will resist all forms of violence and respect human life from its creation to its natural end. transparency and fair evaluation in the selection of action plans, combined actions with other community programmes and strategies such as progress and the future strategy on the rights of the child. i hope that progress in the fight against violence within the european union will be so rapid that if one of the coming years is declared a european year against violence, it will be primarily about action to eliminate violence at international level.
madam president, access for exporters and businesses to the markets of many of the union's major trading partners is not always easy. it faces high tariff and technical barriers, opaque and unfair practices, administrative and fiscal obstacles and, more generally, the failure to fully apply the principle of national treatment. i also stress, as the rapporteur mr caspary has said, the ineffective protection of intellectual and industrial property worldwide. an additional factor in the reduced competitiveness of european products and services is the obligation to comply with stricter standards of product safety, protection of public health and the environment, consumers and workers. i am not in favour of relaxing the european regulatory framework, but of seeking reciprocal conditions with our trading partners. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to finance the necessary measures. in this context, the european union is rightly seeking, in the context of the current wto negotiations, to achieve zero import duties on so-called 'green goods'. the commission will also consider the possibility of imposing a 'green tax' on imports from countries not bound by the kyoto protocol in order to compensate for the competitive disadvantage of european companies and to prevent them from relocating to areas with less stringent environmental rules. the balance of the world trade system requires converging systems, institutional transparency, converging standards of social and environmental protection.
mr president, there is no doubt that aid for trade is a very important initiative. it shall support the fullest and most effective integration of developing countries, in particular the least developed among them, into the multilateral trading system. as has been said, trade is not really a panacea for growth. it can, however, enhance the overall economic and social development of the recipient countries. the special and differential treatment of developing countries in the wto is to some extent mandatory, particularly as regards the least developed countries. it should be noted, however, that the adoption of multilateral commitments and their compliance with wto rules provide an incentive for reforms which will benefit the developing countries themselves. the gradual opening of their markets and their exogenous economic and trade policies help to strengthen their competitiveness by enabling the transfer of technology and know-how. developing countries, however, are particularly reluctant to negotiate multilaterally in calls for opening up their markets. to this end, trade assistance is crucial in order for these countries to meet new obligations and implement multilateral trade rules, mitigate their adjustment costs to reforms and integrate trade more effectively into their development policies. it is recognised that aid for trade should be accompanied by appropriate internal policies in developing countries in order to maximise the effect. and in this endeavour, the european union is called upon to play a leading role in shaping an effective, coherent, targeted aid agenda for trade. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate commissioner mandelson on his support for this initiative and also for the link between the external aspects of competitiveness and the internal initiatives for the competitiveness of the european economy which was the subject of the previous part of our debate.
in writing. the title on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy is substantially out of line with its content, since it focuses on harmful substances in surface water and sediments derived solely from herbicides. other sources of pollution are out of control, such as industrial liquid waste, urban sewage, landfill drainage, thermal pollution from similar sources, pollution of lakes by gaseous pollutants from combustion plants precipitated by weather phenomena, etc. however, chemical pollution of surface water can cause disturbances in aquatic ecosystems, destroying biodiversity or accumulating pollutants in the food chain from infected fish. the commission's intention to target and blame agricultural production as the sole responsible for the chemical pollution of surface waters is also clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in all its aspects. no specific measures are proposed to control the sources of discharges of the priority substances, dangerous and non-hazardous, whose concentration limits are dealt with in the proposal for a directive. however, the report extends the limited scope of the directive to more effective protection of water. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of water is not compromised by the lack of adequate protection of the environment, and that the quality of water is not compromised by the lack of adequate protection of the environment.
in writing. the much-touted improvement of agricultural production and the improvement of agricultural products through organic farming is in danger of becoming a colossal fraud on producers and consumers. the few multinationals that are trying to control the global food chain through mutants for their profits have been imposed with the responsibility of all the political groups in the ep including pasok-nd. the authorized presence of gmos and the addition of supplements (vitamins, etc.) derived from gmos to organic food is the back door to the use of gmos in countries and regions which resist their use by recognizing their dangers. the establishment of a limit for the detection of gmos in organic products, however low it may be, allows it to be increased without control, since even the european parliament has not been given the right to co-decide. the limit will now be set by multinationals in accordance with the natural contamination resulting from the permissible coexistence of conventional, genetically modified and organic crops, whatever protective measures are taken. so organic producers will see their products degraded while consumers will be cheated into buying 'organic' gmos. our proposals to ban gmos in organic food have unfortunately not been accepted, but the struggle continues with the workers for healthy crops and healthy food.
in writing. the eu's interest in halting biodiversity loss is late and hypocritical, because it does not take any substantive measures, nor does it have the necessary resources. at the same time as it appears to be cutting for biodiversity, it has as its basic hierarchy the promotion of gmos. the report correctly mentions the risks of genetically modified fish. it does not mention at all the enormous threat posed by resistant gm plants which reduce plant biodiversity and pose dangers to public health. there's already a wealth of evidence for a wave of species extinction, with loss rates 100 to 1,000 times higher than normal levels, with tragic consequences for the genetic flow between wildlife populations. climate change, environmental pollution, intensive agricultural production methods and the inadequate management of forest land and water resources are cited as the main causes of biodiversity loss. but these are the results of the predatory exploitation of nature by the monopolies for their profit. but the polluter pays principle also absolves the polluter, legitimises and markets environmental degradation for the benefit of capital profits. in essence, the responsibility of governments and the eu is being transferred to citizens, by strengthening education and awareness. the people should seek to hold the eu and the governments of the member states accountable for their anti-environmental policies, condemn them and overthrow them.
mr president, it is time to stop the obituary for the already dead european constitution. let us go out into society to see what europe needs: - i know . the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the mediterranean region. - crime is rampant in all the capitals of europe. - the illegal immigrants are in charge. we certainly have a great human rights test of visible and invisible cameras. mr prodi, you were president of europe for five years. tell me, what is the eastern border of europe? just yesterday, two fully equipped submarines were west of the island of samos near mykonos. what happens tomorrow morning ? the spark of war from turkey is visible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. because otherwise this united europe will have the fate of the holy alliance two centuries ago. it's not about building a superstate. the question is whether we can safeguard democracy and safeguard the well-being of the people, which is being violently attacked and violated by capital and the central bank. this is the objective of europe: the citizen, not capital, must increase his power.
the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any comments on these? (parliament adopted the minutes) the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the situation in palestine.
madam president, we are still living with the consequences of a mistake made in 1947. if there had not been the unilateral recognition of israel and the recognition of the state of palestine, we would have saved a lot of blood. a statistical office concluded that so much blood has been lost in this area that we could have saved a million children from blood transfusions. all these tragedies that have happened in the twin towers, in london, in madrid and elsewhere are the offspring of this policy of 1947 which we are continuing today. why go into endless detail? do we have the strength tomorrow to recognize the state of palestine? that would be, if you will, progress. but we're whistling the game 90-10. and when the referee whistles 50-50, he's out of the game. when he whistles 60-40, the game is over. but when he's blowing 90-10, it's hell on the court and on the field. so we're the ones who caused this hell. because we're whistling the game 90-10. the world is falling apart and we hear in the house daily reports about iran's nuclear weapons. no one ever spoke of israel's nuclear weapons. and that's not fair. if we want to be fair, if we want our citizens to believe in us and to trust us, we must do justice. and justice will only be achieved by recognizing the state of palestine.
member of the commission. there are many technologies and many techniques that can be utilised in order to help in this respect. i really believe that the ageing of the population will first need a response from us on the societal level, but this response on the societal level is also an opportunity for the european industry, because if our industry gets the societal response from the policymakers, from those who are responsible in areas, in regions, in countries and at european level, then they can start to market systems, services and items for the elderly. i believe that this will not only help our society but also our economy. so this is a turning point. it is also a question of growth and jobs, because, if we get it right, we can export systems on the societal level, as well as commercial items and services, outside of europe. so i really believe that all those elements are working closely together for the betterment of our society and of our economy.
member of the commission. the honourable member asked me what i mean by the expression ‘our european way of separation’. we currently have a framework for telecoms that provide regulatory tools or remedies to the nras in cases where markets are not competitive, and in its review of the framework the commission will be looking at ways of strengthening the single market for telecom services. one possible innovation is to work more closely on remedies, because remedies are sometimes either not applied or not applied swiftly, which is the same problem. we have also analysed that one possible tool as a remedy could be functional separation, which means separating the network business of a dominant market player from the part of the business that provides a service to the end customers. this functional separation can provide the right incentive to providers of network services not to discriminate between customers for wholesale services. this can in turn mean that the conditions for real competition in the telecom markets are improved. so we are not speaking here about forcing dominant players to sell off part of their businesses, as has happened in other parts of the world – for example in the united states with at&t. we would not like to go in that direction, and that is why i am talking about ‘the european way’. it would then be for each national regulator to assess the condition in its own member state before considering such a remedy. this has already been done in britain with openreach, so that is one example which we have in that case. the honourable member also asked about greece. in the case of greece it would then be the greek regulator, on the basis of national law in line with the updated eu framework, to take account of competitive conditions and all other relevant factors in the greek market, and then to propose – or not – such a remedy if he thought it to be necessary and in the interests of the greek market.
i thank the commissioner for her reply. but i have the feeling that in practice we have 27 different regulatory systems in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. i am sure that you are making a great effort in this area. this regulatory uncertainty, or, to put it another way, the multi-disciplinarity, is causing uncertainties for investment, it is causing uncertainties for competition, uncertainties for innovation and, of course, it is creating very few jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. the honourable member is absolutely right. for the time being we do not have a european market for telecoms. i think that has to be changed, because the only way for europe to stay strong in matters of telecommunications – and europe is strong, we are really one of the leading forces on the world market in this – is to get rid of 27 sometimes conflicting regulatory systems and come to one system which makes sense and which will also permit cross-border services and investments to take place, and enable us to have big european players which will work across several countries. so we are now working towards opening the market for international roaming. parliament is going to decide on that tomorrow, and that is always a sign to show where we want to go in the future. i will certainly come forward with a proposal for the reform of the e-communications package in order to get this european market to function, not to get rid of the national regulators – i think that we still need them because they know their market best – but in order to get not harmonisation, but logic in the remedies which they propose and which have to be applied swiftly so that there is a level playing field between the different markets and so that the cross-border activities of the industries can take place without being blocked by a lack of market opening in other markets.
member of the commission. i think that, if i have heard correctly, this question has already been partially answered by my colleague mr frattini who also spoke on this subject. the fact that he partially answered this question clearly shows that it is the commission as a whole that is worried about the development of our society and the commission as a whole that takes measures to move ahead in this area. on 6 february this year, 15 leading european mobile operators and content providers united to sign a european framework for safer mobile use by younger teenagers. that is a voluntary agreement; it is a memorandum of understanding whereby the mobile industry, together with the gsm association of europe, agrees to monitor, publish and translate codes on their website, both those which already exist and those which will be adopted. these self-regulatory codes will then, for instance, help parents or grandparents or educators to understand what the problems for children using third-generation mobile phones might be. this agreement came out of the discussion in a high-level group that i convened, which included children’s organisations, consumer organisations and bodies for content classification, as well as regulatory bodies. the memorandum of understanding sets out a number of principles and requires signatories to work towards implementation through self-regulation at national level. when we signed this together and we held a press conference, i said that i had confidence in the signatories. i will give them one year, until february or march next year, in order to implement that. then we will come back to the subject and we will see if they have implemented it. if they implement it – fine – then maybe we will have discussions about possible corrections or future projects. if our expectations are not met, the commission will then consider the introduction of specific measures.
i thank the commissioner very much for her reply. the commission's role in this important matter is not in doubt. i would like to put two questions to the commissioner, more to facilitate the debate. i believe that this is a voluntary memorandum, as she herself has said, and that self-regulation is expected in the sector. so i would say that the commission should basically know what it will assess after february 2008: the commission will therefore be encouraging the member states to adopt common codes to monitor this issue. will it codify and analyse best practice by member state? finally, what is the communication policy towards parents who are illiterate in this area and what community programmes can be used to inform them?
member of the commission. as regards mr posselt’s supplementary question concerning eu assistance to vojvodina and its relation to minority rights, while it is not possible to extrapolate exactly the total amount of aid given to the autonomous province of vojvodina, the territory has received significant eu assistance, which has been directed to those needs to which mr posselt referred. we have based our economic assistance on the following considerations: history, i.e. post-war reconstruction, notably as regards the sloboda bridge; geography, through integrated border management; and the economy. vojvodina is a relatively wealthy area compared with other areas of serbia. therefore, even though it occupies 25 % of the area of the republic and has 20 % of the population, vojvodina has absorbed 36 % of the credit line that the eu has earmarked for smes. all in all, it is clear that we are using this economic assistance for the purposes to which mr posselt referred, and i can assure him that this money is well used for the protection of minorities and their rights.
member of the commission. i agree with the honourable member that we have to use political methods in parallel with economic assistance. that is what we have been doing as regards vojvodina. we have raised these issues with the serbian government. now, as the country has a new democratic government which is reform- and europe-oriented, i expect that we have an even better chance of making our voice heard and ensuring that our concerns are taken into account in serbia as regards vojvodina’s position. the new constitution of serbia contains detailed provisions concerning human rights and the protection of minorities. however, it contains some ambiguities in relation to the scope of territorial decentralisation. the new serbian parliament will have a key role in implementing the constitution soundly, especially in enhancing the protection of minorities, as well as establishing forms of local self-government that are in line with european standards. in this respect it is certainly positive that, thanks to the revision of the electoral law, ethnic minority parties now have several seats in the new serbian parliament.
member of the commission. concerning the position of the hungarian minority in vojvodina, we have, as i said in our progress reports, analysed its situation very carefully. we have also discussed the issue with the serbian authorities, who have underlined that they are committed to increasing the participation of people from national minorities in the police and judiciary, but they claim that there is often a lack of interest from qualified candidates. in my view, it is important that we continue this political pressure or political encouragement. at the same time, once we solve the problems that have caused internally displaced persons to migrate, then we have better chances of avoiding the kinds of problems to which you referred. i am of course referring in particular to the issue of the kosovo status talks. there must be a well-managed status settlement, and i am confident that, once we have that, there will be no destabilising effects on ethnically mixed areas such as vojvodina. that is why we urge all those concerned to show a sense of responsibility. the commission’s firm view is that no parallel can be drawn between kosovo and vojvodina.
member of the commission. the commission has not changed its position at all as regards turkey’s acquis communautaire obligations. there is no contradiction between the two answers the honourable member refers to, which, on the contrary, reflect the very same approach. like all other candidate countries, turkey is expected to implement and enforce the acquis communautaire by the time of accession, that is, at the latest at the time it joins the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the turkish army is openly interfering in political developments. the republic of cyprus is threatened because, by applying the convention on the law of the sea, it is promoting, together with neighbouring countries, the exploitation of its exclusive economic zone. 160 and kurdish candidates, including leyla zana, are barred from the upcoming elections. does this respect the acquis communautaire? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. the questions raised by the honourable member are extremely important, but they are somewhat beyond the scope of this particular question. unfortunately, time will not allow me to respond in detail. however, i would like to underline that it is important that we are both fair and firm with turkey in order to break the negative spiral in relations between the european union and turkey. by ‘fair and firm’ i mean that we have to be fair by keeping our word, sticking to the commitment that, if turkey meets all the conditions of eu accession, it can join the union. at the same time as being fair and credible we can be firm and rigorous, and we can expect turkey to carry out reforms and respect citizens’ rights so that, for instance, the kurdish question can be addressed or women’s rights, trade union rights and freedom of expression can be enhanced in turkey thanks to the credible prospect of eu accession. so we have to be fair and firm at the same time with turkey.
member of the commission. the turkish government respected the ruling of the constitutional court and took the measures to implement it. this was important for the political stability of the country, regardless of the events that led to the ruling. to this end of political stability, the majority party submitted to the grand national assembly a proposal to hold early general elections. subsequently, the grand national assembly agreed by a broad majority that the early parliamentary elections would be held on 22 july 2007. the commission expects that the parliamentary, and subsequent presidential, elections will be carried out democratically in an atmosphere of responsible debate and political stability. as regards the role of the military, i have often said that i have a high regard for the turkish armed forces in the fulfilment of their duties of defending their country and contributing to international peace, but, as i stated after the statement by the chief of staff at the end of april, the military must leave the remit of democratic decision-making to the democratically-elected bodies of turkey. it should be self-evident that if any country wants to join the european union it should respect all democratic principles, including ensuring democratic leadership of civil military relations, and, in my view, this is fully compatible with secular democracy, or democratic secularism, which is anchored in the turkish constitution. once the new parliament is elected and a new government takes office, it will be crucial for turkey to revitalise and relaunch fully the legislative work and implementation of the reforms that enhance the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in the country.
i thank you for your reply, commissioner. in fact, you have had to repeat once again what you have said many times to turkey, as you yourself have said, about the position it must take as a candidate for membership of the european union. i wanted to ask if this crisis has not revealed something more, if it has not revealed a weakness. didn't you use other means to reach out to the political and military actors? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. i would like to ask whether you have intervened more because of the seriousness of the crisis and the evidence it reveals.
member of the commission. thank you for this very important question, mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou. in fact, i talk a lot with the turkish government – some people in europe think that it is too much! but in times of the political or constitutional crises which turkey has undergone and, to my mind, is going through during this crisis phase, it is particularly important that we maintain a channel of communication and discuss intensively with the turkish government and with all the relevant players in turkish society in order to make clear what the expectations of the european union are, if and when turkey wants to become a member of the european union. of course, democratic leadership of civil and military relations is one of these cornerstones. as the commission stated very clearly in early may – after my statement concerning the political intervention of the turkish military in the tense situation – that the european union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the supremacy of democratic, civilian power over the military. if a country wants to become a member of the union, it needs to respect these principles. this is the core of the copenhagen criteria for eu accession. this has been made very clear to the turkish government and those involved in politics in turkey, as well as through the turkish media to the turkish citizens. i do not think that a higher volume helps. instead we need clarity and precision and, concerning our statement, it cannot get any clearer than our statement of 2 may.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the other hand, i wonder which constitutional court in any democratic country, not only in europe but in the whole world, would decide that a two-thirds majority is required to elect the president of the republic! in this way, the opposition in any country can control the election of the president of the republic. the commission, in its communication, stated that it respects the rule of law and its rules and does not want to intervene in turkey. but is it the rule of law? i do not think the commission's communication was balanced.
the dispute between estonia and russia is not a bronze statue but a provocative act of falsifying historical truth. it offends the memory of millions of fighters who gave their lives to crush fascism. the debate in the european parliament, at the previous plenary session in brussels, and the adoption of the resolution expressing solidarity with the estonian government is a conscious policy of supporting the falsification of history and the revival of fascism in the baltic states and other countries. we have repeatedly denounced, with evidence that is known to all, that in estonia, latvia and lithuania, after 1991, the rehabilitation of collaborators of the ss and german fascism was methodically carried out. at the same time, the demolition of monuments to the red army began. in july 2004 a monument to the estonian antifascist lembit pärn was demolished and a monument to the waffen-ss officer alfons rebane was erected. in latvia, the concentration camp at salaspils, where 100,000 adults and 4,000 children were murdered, was designated by the government as a "reeducation labor camp". in romania, nazi germany's collaborator, prime minister ion antonescu, was acquitted of war crimes charges. the council has not responded to all these complaints and questions from the members of the european parliament from the communist party of greece. it's not surprising. fascism is a genuine product of capitalism. we don't agree with putin. but we wonder, when you're shoving over 20 million dead, why are you so provocative and demanding respect for international treaties? you're falsifying history, but the facts don't change. the historical truth is that it was the red army, with the communist leaders, the soviet union, that in eastern and central europe crushed fascism and raised the red flag with the hammer in the reichstag. it was and remains the permanent nightmare that will forever mark the defeat of those who dreamed of world domination ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome the opportunity to discuss the elmar brok report with you all, even if it is during sleepy hours. the common foreign and security policy is a crucial element of the eu's external policy, in which the commission is fully involved under the treaties. we are participating in the discussion in all relevant council bodies. we are a permanent member of the troika. we manage and implement the cfsp budget. we are also contributing to the european union's foreign policy objectives through all the measures under the first pillar. it is vital for us that the union has a fully coordinated foreign policy, which includes both the common foreign and security policy and the community dimension, and thus the actions of the member states. we want to be like the gears in a well-oiled transmission. let me briefly touch on some of the themes of this very comprehensive report: i also believe that the implementation of the foreign policy aspects of the constitutional treaty would increase the efficiency, coherence and visibility of the cfsp. however, we should not conclude that things cannot be improved in the meantime or have been improved. what counts in this context is the developments and results on the ground, and here there have been considerable improvements. we have only recently seen improved cooperation between the council, the member states and the commission, as in the coordination of our actions and measures in preparing a solution to the status of kosovo, in the strengthening of our efforts to promote the rule of law in afghanistan through police and judicial measures, in the transfer of police work to the council and the council secretariat, in the transfer of responsibility for the judiciary, in the use of military means within nato. other examples include support for the middle east peace process (eu mission to support border guard at rafah crossing point), support for security sector reform in the democratic republic of congo, or financing of peacekeeping operations in somalia or sudan through the african peace facility or the monitoring and surveillance mission in aceh. all these costly but politically very important undertakings require that we draw on the necessary resources from both the budget of the common foreign and security policy and from community instruments, including the new stability instrument, to achieve our objectives. i would add that here, above all, the stability instrument is already proving to be a very flexible instrument, allowing us to react quickly to crises and build the necessary capacities. by working together in crisis situations and other foreign policy challenges, we are actually already paving the way for the implementation of the foreign policy provisions of the constitutional treaty. we are also strengthening the role of the european union in the world, as is the wish of eu citizens and rightly emphasised in the report. the european parliament also plays a very special role in the eu's external policy. i therefore attach great importance to our regular exchanges with you, whether in plenary or in committee meetings. we should always bear in mind our common challenge to increase the overall effectiveness of our influence in the world. as the report rightly points out, it is also important that the common foreign and security policy is adequately financed. the budgetary resources for the new financial period have therefore also been considerably increased, especially in comparison with other policy areas. as regards the 2007 budget, we all know that 2007 will be an exceptional year in terms of budgetary requirements. the two most important challenges are certainly kosovo and the middle east peace process. in kosovo, once we have succeeded in agreeing a final status and a un security council resolution has been adopted in new york, a major, perhaps the largest civilian esdp operation will be launched, and the commission and council are already working intensively on preparing it. as regards the middle east peace process, we must ensure that support for the palestinian people is maintained. if additional resources are needed for the cfsp budget, we must find an appropriate solution together with parliament, taking into account the need to be able to respond to unforeseen crises in other areas of foreign policy in case of emergency. i could now explain the individual subjects, but i think it would be in your interest if i interrupted this for the time being and perhaps answered a few questions after the debate.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, as a member of the committee on budgets, i am pleased that the capital of the common foreign and security policy is being increased by almost eur 1 800 million for the period 2007-2013, i.e. by more than three times the amount of the previous seven years. we believe that this positive development should be accompanied by increased parliamentary control and improved cooperation between our committee and the council, as provided for in article 28 of the treaty on european union. and so i am obliged to condemn tonight's unjustified absence from the council which gives us a very negative symbolism. the commission's position is clear: we cannot accept annual reports from the council which are limited to an ex post description of the activities of the cfsp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such substantial financial information has only recently been given to us by the german ambassador responsible for kosovo, and i must welcome the initiative of that ambassador, hoping that this improvement will continue on a regular basis. two further points: we are concerned that it has been almost impossible to date to assess the so-called 'mixed actions' of the cfsp, which involve expenditure both from non-military actions and from actions with military or defence implications, and, secondly, we consider it necessary to include the european union's special envoys in the cfsp budget and, therefore, to require criteria for both their appointment and their evaluation.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr brok, and the rapporteur, mr samaras, on their remarks on the weaknesses and shortcomings of the cfsp and their proposals for greater activity, better financing and exploitation of our potential to play an international role and tackle the problems. but it's time to ask ourselves, is all of this enough? will they deliver the results we expect every time? it is a question put to us by the citizens of the european union and by the citizens of other parts of the world, especially in areas where we are present but not sufficiently effective. i would like to refer to the middle east, as mentioned in the brok report, which is currently experiencing a particularly unstable situation. this situation is indeed a great challenge for us. we provide coordinated and timely humanitarian and development assistance. we maintain peacekeeping forces, like in lebanon; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. and we expect problems to solve themselves or by others or follow paths dictated by others. we recognize that the heart of the problem is the palestinian problem, and yet we rest on temporary solutions and do not take the chance to lead to radical solutions that are sustainable. it is time to see that there is a need for a european strategy which is more independent and autonomous, which sees things more clearly and speaks things out. it's the only way we can be effective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i believe that, before the constitutional treaty, which will give us a more coherent and responsible framework, we can ensure better cooperation with the council. parliament can contribute to this more political and in-depth approach to issues and strategy.
the committee on culture and education has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of children against the dangers arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. commissioner, after some six months of work, one of the most important reports on the proposal for a regulation on mobile roaming is coming to the european parliament for a vote. i would like to congratulate mr paul rübig on his excellent work and on his special cooperation with the commission and the council which has brought us today's very positive results, especially for 150 million consumers. at the same level, i should like to congratulate commissioner reding both on her decision to propose the roaming regulation and on her firm stance against the reactions of external actors and her engagement with the rapporteurs and members of parliament's committees. but congratulations also to the colleagues in the council and commission consultations. i would like to stress the point concerning the mobile telephone companies and the european parliament. this is not a trench war between the two sides. it is, however, part of the right of citizens to demand protection from their parliamentary representatives when they see their interests being exploited by the monopolistic tendencies of the big corporations. as rapporteur for the committee on culture, i have tried, with the harmonious cooperation of my colleagues from all the political groups, to find a common line that speaks for all. the amendments which were voted for by the committee gave the rapporteur the opportunity to approach the question of roaming from another angle. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the future of the audiovisual industry. businessmen, journalists, people of the arts and letters move around every day. large families take vacations throughout the year. they spend money. the mobile phone is necessary and useful. but let us not allow this to become a pretext for corporate exploitation. necessity is not a weakness. the roaming regulation, as it has been formulated, is what we are called upon to approve today in the european parliament. the vote on the report will be a victory for parliament in favour of consumer protection. it will be a major step forward, and will give a new impetus to the internal market. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr paul rübig on the compromise he has reached and commissioner viviane reding on her initiative to come forward with a regulatory proposal. i believe that regulatory intervention was necessary because competition in the roaming market has not been operating for many years in the european union, with the result that charges remain high at both wholesale and retail level. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the conditions for the free movement of goods is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would remind you that our main concern was to reconcile consumer needs with the competitiveness of the european mobile telephony industry, and i think that in the end we have wisely reconciled them. in particular, i am particularly pleased with the proposed charges for both wholesale and retail, which are very close to those proposed in my amendments. but above all i am satisfied that the logic of opt-out prevailed. the final formula of this logic is that all categories of consumers are protected: those who wish to be exempted from the euro debt by keeping the contract in force with their company intact, but also those who are less or not at all informed should benefit from the new reduced prices. finally, the regulation we are voting on today guarantees price transparency for the european consumer who, unfortunately, pays a lot of money for many products and services, which is not justified in a single, liberalised and competitive european market.
mr president, i too would like to thank the commissioner for the effective proposal on roaming, a proposal which received the political message from the european parliament many years ago. we know that the main aim was to set maximum tariffs so as to force mobile operators to set transparent and correctly calculated prices. i think that our work is not finished, neither that of the commission nor that of the european parliament. in a possible review of the situation on the roaming market after the application of the current regulation, further corrections should be made in the areas of data and sms services. in addition, it should be stressed that there will be a lot of work to be done by the regulatory authorities to ensure that the current agreement is respected. in a period of widespread scepticism about the immediacy and relevance of european union action in the daily lives of citizens, today's initiative is an opportunity for the institutions to demonstrate that the european union is intervening in solving their problems and in completing the internal market.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, allow me to wait two minutes for the commissioner to take his seat, and please do not count that time. the concept of decent work as a set of rules and conditions guaranteeing respect for the worker as a human person was introduced by the international labour organisation in 2000 and developed into an internationally pursued objective by the recommendations of the united nations conference of heads of state and government in september 2005 in the context of achieving the millennium development goals. in july 2006, the high-level ministerial working group of the united nations economic and social council underlined in its statement the need to give priority to efforts to achieve productive full employment and decent work for all. the concept, attributed to the latin-derived adjective decent, has the meaning of concession, of consent so that there is decency. the greek word ʽad·iʹdho·naiʹ emphasizes the need to assign value. the german adjective 'menschenwürdig' is, however, i would say, fully reflective of the aim of the global project, as it combines dignity with the human condition. the commission communication of may 2006 'promoting decent work for all' lays the foundations for the european union's organised contribution to the implementation of all the objectives of the integrated vision of human work in conditions of freedom, equality, safety and human dignity. the four main pillars of the concept of decent work are, as is well known, the creation of jobs for productive work with free choice, the guarantee of labour rights, extensive social protection and the provision of health and safety conditions, the promotion of social dialogue and the peaceful settlement of disputes along the lines of respect for equality between men and women. five ilo conventions enshrine basic labour rights: freedom of association, promotion of collective agreements, abolition of child labour and equal pay for men and women. we hope that the other ilo conventions still awaiting ratification will be signed and implemented. following the council decision of december 2006, the employment committee of the european parliament welcomes the commission's objectives in its report. the objectives must be:- to achieve social and economic progress and to ensure that it is equitably distributed for the benefit of all; - the promotion of entrepreneurship by adjusting expenditure to the changing phases of the business cycle; - the development of active labour market policies as a component of macroeconomic policy; - strengthening the institutional capacity of the social partners to participate and developing social dialogue; - enhancing the employability of all levels of workers, especially women, young people and older people, through renewed education systems; - consolidating lifelong learning so that all can benefit from advances in science, technology and communications and adapt to the increasing demands for qualifications and skills. there is certainly no single model of social policy and labour market regulation. the european union is proud that, in addition to the broad effort of its member states to ratify the ilo's international conventions, it is the economic power which, throughout its length and breadth, exhibits common features of social sensitivity. the european social model, with the aim of productivity and economic performance for the benefit of all, high-quality social benefits, health and safety conditions, care for training, education and retraining of all ages and categories of workers and social dialogue ensuring equal opportunities for all. the european employment strategy, the social protection and social inclusion strategies, the national reform programmes, the revised lisbon strategy for growth and employment with the preservation and improvement of the social acquis, the european sustainable development strategy, constitute the european union's roadmap for achieving the objectives of decent work. but decent work is also a matter of governance. the implementation of effective decent work policies requires accountable institutions, political commitment to sound state management and an active and organised civil society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. but economic globalisation, the globalisation of markets, technologies, information and labour is a phenomenon that is expected to accelerate with the strengthening of economic multipolarity. china is rising to the top, as are india and other powers. the gap between rich and poor is widening even in developed and industrialized countries. it is time for the european union to show the world its values. in this report, the european parliament reinforces the commission's intention to integrate decent work into its external policies, in cooperation with the un institutions, national and regional organisations, the social partners and other sectors of civil society. the commission and the member states are invited to coordinate decent work more effectively in external cooperation and trade policy programmes and to contribute to the implementation of the ilo national decent work programmes. i thank the three committees that have given their opinions and all those who have contributed to the presentation of this report.
madam president, there are no undignified jobs or undignified professions. even the world's oldest profession is not unworthy. but there are undignified conditions that are fostered by our own policy. when a person is poor and helpless, he resorts to undignified work. john in les miserables was not unworthy when he stole the breadcrumb. but we have made 100 million europeans into janny-jannies. and so, multinational corporations are exploiting this need. some people need to understand that if we don't change policy, if we have the gospel bankers, we're going to have people driven into undignified jobs. mr trichet doubled the interest rates in two years. when someone with a salary of 800 euros has taken out a loan, you realize that he is unable to repay it. so he'll take a job that's not worthy of him. we are responsible. so we have to make a leap forward. after all these years, we're back to feudalism. in the old days, the feudal lord had a name. now he has a bank!
in writing. the european united left voted in favour of the rübig report on roaming because, after pressure from the european parliament, a satisfactory compromise was reached for the benefit of european consumers. of course, there are still many steps to be taken towards transparency in charges, the extension of the scope and further reduction of uncontrolled charges by mobile operators. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to cover the whole of the european union, including the european union's external borders, and to extend it to cover the whole of the european union. the example of this regulation must be followed. the creation of regulatory frameworks is also needed in other areas where free market rules have proved inadequate and cartels reign supreme.
in writing. the report on the impact of the exclusion of health services from the bolkestein directive, in the name of protecting patients and health professionals, promotes the commercialisation and further privatisation of a sector - a fillet for capital, in order to serve its profitability. the kke meps have clearly expressed our opposition to bolkestein and have fought with the workers for her withdrawal. the report takes for granted that national health systems will be inadequate and health services will not be free. the commission is therefore proposing to integrate health care services covered by the social security funds downwards, using the health card as a tool. the idea of work-hopping for workers is proposed, the necessary comprehensive scientific knowledge, including training and skill acquisition, is underestimated. it also obliges practitioners to have insurance in the event of damage, making the state responsible for the nursing profession. individual responsibility also includes the choice of treatment by the patient through information networks, replacing the obligation of the state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. health is a social good, and workers need to intensify their struggle against its commercialization, demanding modern, exclusively public and free national health systems, which respond to the modern needs of workers.
in writing. the annual report proposes to strengthen the military and political sector of the cfsp by €1.8 billion, i.e. tripling spending for the period 2007-2013, to escalate the eu's aggressive policy in order to claim for the eu monopolies a greater share of the spoils of the imperialist interventions that are taking place at the expense of the peoples. it reiterates the adoption of the euro-constitution, which is 'dead' after the referendums in france and the netherlands, as a necessary tool for promoting the cfsp. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european union with the republic of south africa. completion of the formation of the battle groups, preparation for military occupation forces in kosovo to replace nato forces. there is no mention of missile defence proving its implicit but clear acceptance through nato or the eu itself. the commission is proposing to increase funding by virtually inviting european workers to pay for the eu's aggressive policy. we are voting against the cfsp report.
in writing. the eu proposal and the report discussed in the european parliament's plenary session under the false title 'decent work' (com (2006) 0249) constitute the eu's new reactionary, anti-people framework for achieving the objectives of the 'lisbon strategy', minimising the price of labour, striking at fundamental workers' rights, increasing the profits of eu monopoly business groups. the basis of the capitalist restructuring worked out and shaped in the eu and in international imperialist organizations by the plutocracy and their political proxies for so-called "decent work" is embedded in the anti-people policy of the eu, including among others: - lifelong training, the expansion of flexible forms of employment, the abolition of collective agreements, the deterioration of insurance and pension conditions, the further privatisation of education, health and, in general, public services of general interest; - the establishment of a minimum income for workers, a "net" of protection at the poverty level, in order to avoid worker-popular reactions, while the plutocracy makes huge profits from the exploitation of the working class. the european parliament's committee on budgets has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the community.
member of the commission. madam president, on the subject of elephants we are currently sceptical of supporting any of the proposals on the table, because the african elephant range states will be meeting directly before the conference. we encourage them – and i think this would be the best solution – to engage in a real dialogue and thus seek an agreement on a common approach.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, we are following developments in turkey with great attention and i would also like to recall the presidency statement of 28 april 2007, in which we stressed that the presidential elections must be held in accordance with the democratic principles and the rule of law enshrined in the constitution. in general, it should be recalled that negotiations with turkey were opened in 2005 on the basis that turkey fulfilled to a sufficient extent the political criteria set by the copenhagen european council in 1993. these political criteria for eu membership include institutional stability as a guarantee of democratic order and the rule of law, respect for human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. in addition, in accordance with the negotiating framework adopted by the council in october 2005, the european union expects turkey to continue the reform process and to work towards further improvements, particularly with regard to respect for the principles of liberty, democracy and the rule of law, and human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the relevant european case law. on 11 september 2006, the council noted that further substantial efforts are needed to strengthen freedom of expression, freedom of religion, the rights of women, minorities and trade unions, and civilian control of the military. these issues are regularly discussed in the political dialogue with turkey. the council expects full respect for the principles mentioned above, such as the rule of law and civilian control of the military, also in the present situation. the presidency will therefore continue to follow the electoral process in turkey closely.
i would like to thank the minister for presenting the conditions set by the european union for turkey's accession, but i have referred to the recent crisis which could not happen not only in the countries of the european union but also in the candidate countries. we are not used to such crises in the candidate countries and i think that to 'monitor' the situation, as you said, is simply too little. we must also give an account to the european citizens of what we are doing to deal with the situation and to stir up the waters in this country so that it finally follows the conditions imposed for a path towards the european union. mr. secretary, we're asking for more than a simple "watch". you guys do that ?
the president of the council. if we deal with the refugee problem only on this point, namely how best to secure external borders, we will be short-changed. i also referred to the many initiatives taken by the european union and mentioned the african union/european union summit in tripoli at the time, so that it would be wrong to start with frontex only to combat the problem there. the question is how we can pursue our strategy together with the african countries. one point we discussed earlier in the example of nigeria, where good governance can help keep people in their country while creating a perspective in areas such as education, training, schooling, health and jobs in the countries themselves. that's the most important point. i hope that the european union/african union summit will reflect this theme. dramatic events often happen at sea. but in the past, when the european union knew that smugglers were at work, it helped to provide the boat people with lunch packs at short notice, but this was not enough to ensure their safe arrival. nevertheless, support services have already been provided here. we therefore agree that the member states are responsible for the protection of the external borders, but that frontex can be called upon to provide support, for example to monitor a section of the sea or borders.
the president of the council. madam president, as you know, we would all like to have the opportunity or the freedom to travel in a different way than we are currently allowed to. however, in the european union, measures have been taken in the form of the regulation adopted by the commission in october 2006 to ensure a certain level of security. the commission, assisted by the committee on civil aviation safety, which is composed of civil representatives of the member states, shall adopt this regulation in accordance with the rules of the committee procedure. the commission undertook to evaluate these measures six months after their adoption. questions concerning this regulation should therefore be addressed directly to the commission, which is the actor in this matter. it should be recalled that the council's role in the field of aviation security is limited to examining legislative proposals on the framework for appropriate security measures. in this context, the council and parliament are currently discussing the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down common rules in the field of civil aviation security. this regulation should replace the regulation currently in force.
mr. secretary, thank you very much for your answer. i would like to ask whether it is possible for citizens to lodge complaints so that the commission can take them into account, whether you, as council, could not propose the free distribution of water, even for short distances, and whether you are taking care of the environmental assessment of the waste from this measure.
madam president, i am sorry, but i can only assume two things: either my question was not translated or the council spokesman did not answer my questions at all. i asked specific questions: if i may express my complaints, i as well as any european citizen immediately after this inspection. i also asked about the waste... (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission has informed us that it will not intervene at this stage. he's already received many congratulations! the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by bill newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the development of a strategy for combating organised crime [2006/2094 (ini) ] (a6-0152/2007).
the commissioner, mr frattini, has informed us that he will not intervene again. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday, at 12 noon. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr niels busk, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (com (2006) 0822 - c6-0045/2007 - 2006/0269 (cns)) (a6-0171/2007).
in writing. the report uses the existing problem of organised crime as a pretext to promote a tougher policy of restricting fundamental individual rights and strengthening the police state and the unchecked action of eu law enforcement mechanisms. in this context, it proposes: the convergence of the criminal laws of the member states, paving the way for the 'communitisation' of criminal law, by limiting one of the most important foundations of the national sovereignty of the member states. the creation of joint investigative teams on law enforcement, the autonomy of europol and eurojust and the strengthening of their character and powers so that they can act as a 'driving force' in the conduct of member states' policy. recognising the fundamental role of the eu counter-terrorism coordinator, instituting a whistleblower mechanism, calling for 'the establishment of a regime of partners in the administration of justice at european level'. of course, after all this, it is not at all surprising that the report makes no mention of the interconnection of organized crime with state institutions, nor of the state's own repressive mechanisms, although their underground relations are a common secret. it is clear that the real aim of the report is to 'fight' democratic rights and civil liberties, not organised crime.
in writing. i voted against the compromise motion for a resolution on the recent events in estonia, as did the left group, because it is one-sided. because i believe it's unacceptable to revisit history, whatever it has been through with the soviets. the monument whose removal was the trigger for the protests and the tension is a monument to the anti-fascist victory. it is not possible to describe it otherwise in the name of opposition to soviet rule. the unilateral approach of the resolution cannot be accepted. the european union is not only not helping to defuse the tension between estonia and russia, it is fuelling it.
mr president, the late interest of the political groups of the people's party of liberals and europe of nations, under the pretext of freedom of expression, in making a joint resolution in the european parliament to promote the unsubstantiated false allegations of the owners of the radio and television channel radio caracas tv and the reactionary political forces of venezuela, who jointly spearheaded the attempted military coup in 2002, the oil embargo in 2003, the subversive actions during the referendum to remove the president, and the continuing flagrant violations of the rules of freedom of the media, is an insult and an unacceptable insult to the venezuelan government and people. information is a public good. 82% of the broadcasting media are privately owned. the spectrum of radio and television frequencies in venezuela is the social property of the people of that country. and the legal representative for its management is its government. the government of venezuela fully implements national and international rules on freedom of information. it takes a lot of guts for someone to attack the venezuelan government from this platform when it is obvious that the targets are others who are the reasons for this attack. they want to return venezuela to the way it was before. they want the resources of this country, they want to continue exploiting the venezuelan people, and this will not be allowed by the european parliament and the venezuelan people themselves.
mr president, what europe needs most is light. more light. we leave shadows. shadows in decisions, in methodologies, and in what we ultimately want to achieve. and of course, more than light, we need democracy. we're not addressing the people. the workers in poland, the farmers in greece and the doctors in belgium do not know what is happening to this constitution. we need democracy. we don't fear the people. we should go to the people and see what they think. all on the same day, with a general referendum. we decide for the people. it is not possible for 27 leaders - who are here today but will not be here tomorrow - to decide the fate of the peoples of europe over the centuries. i'm from the city that gave birth to democracy, athens. that's where the pnyka was. that's where the decisions were made. and anyone who ignored the people was banished. we are all going to be exiled one day by the peoples of europe if we fall short of their expectations of democracy and justice.
mr president, congratulations to the german presidency for finally shaking up the stagnant waters of data protection in the third pillar. i 'm not . the same cannot be said of the procedures followed in the case of the prüm treaty. the prüm story started badly, continued badly and hopefully has a happy ending. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission has recently sent 10 more to express their willingness to join this extra-institutional cooperation. the german presidency has finally decided to integrate prüm into the european framework, but it is wrong to promote it suddenly without any serious assessment of its effectiveness. it is wrong to promote it in the absence of a valid and adequate data protection framework in the third pillar, and it is wrong to promote it with such great zeal, thus in practice undermining parliament's ability to play its full advisory role. despite all the problems, parliament has managed to produce a very good report and, of course, mr correia deserves our warmest congratulations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data, in particular the protection of personal data. i hope that the council will adopt our amendments in order to preserve the credibility of the otherwise necessary - i stress, necessary - cooperation between the police. in recent years this cooperation has taken a dangerous turn towards surveillance and repression, without adequate safeguards for fundamental rights. it's often tempting, in the short term, for police and governments to go down this road, but in the long term it's extremely dangerous for the functioning of democracy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs gibault, a distinguished opera singer who, in her role in the european parliament, has brought to light the problems faced by artists because of the different social systems in the member states. i would also like to congratulate mrs hennicot on her valuable guidance in the final decisions taken by our group on this important matter. most of the difficulties faced by artists are not cultural in nature but are linked to mobility, health, social security, unemployment and the right to a pension enjoyed by every artist. the commission should focus on the current visa and work permit systems for artists and legislate in the meantime in this area. a study should also be carried out at european level to analyse the provisions adopted by the member states to ensure that copyright and related rights holders are compensated. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is therefore up to all of us to protect its creators and to promote creativity in europe.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs salinas garcia, for her excellent report and also the commissioner, who has really made a serious and bold proposal on the fruit and vegetables sector. i am referring to the 'bold proposal' because it is a sector which has a clear structure with producer organisations and operational programmes and the issue is mainly one of decommitment. mr president, i would like to stress, at least personally and also on behalf of our group, the two main issues which we will support. first, a stable budget and second, a fixed time horizon for reform until 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two points only: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the crisis management fund should not require additional resources but should be outside the operational programmes, because it would create complete confusion.
mr president, commissioner, we are delighted to have you here and we thank you for your efforts. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very good work she has done. the fruit and vegetable sector is of great importance to us. i would like to make a few points: firstly, in a sector such as fruit and vegetables, which includes the most sensitive products of agricultural production, financing for crisis management is of great importance. in order to be comprehensive, it must not be included in operational programmes, it must be co-financed by producers and by additional community resources and extended to the field of prevention, as i also asked as shadow rapporteur when we discussed future measures to support agricultural production a year and a half ago. secondly, the mandatory inclusion of agri-environmental measures in the operational programmes of producer organisations as a condition for their approval is a positive step. but to set a compulsory expenditure limit of one fifth of the budget for the actions is excessive and should be reduced. thirdly, perhaps we should at some point also look at small farms, small producers, such as the cultivation of the crocus and the chios mastic. we have to look at the small producers. fourthly, for producer organisations, 60% funding in the low-organised areas is positive, but the limitation of the 4.1% of the value of the products traded is marginal and does not allow them to cope with the new important tasks they are undertaking. the same subject should be mentioned in connection with the difficulties facing the aegean islands, which should therefore be dealt with with with some flexibility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. in conclusion, i should like to say that the oral amendment which will probably be tabled tomorrow and which will refer to the wish to draw up a report in 2010 on the operation of the new cmo, finds us completely opposed, because this means a different approach for fruit and vegetables, whereas the other cmo are regulated quite differently. this is unacceptable to the principles of the european union.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council (21-22 june) and the situation regarding the revision of the treaties.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank you very much for inviting me to the house. the invitation comes at the right time. as you all know, we are still trying to get through a summit, namely the g8 summit in heiligendamm, but we are of course well aware that in about 14 days' time there will be a summit, an event - i am sure you will agree with me - which will be decisive for the future of europe. we hope that this is also well understood by all those involved in the european council. i - i can assure you - have never in my life had so many bilateral talks with our european partners and colleagues as in recent weeks, and others in the german government, including our chancellor, are doing the same. we have been celebrating 50 years of european unity in berlin, brussels and throughout europe for just two and a half months. the european union is a model of success. many people in the world - and i can say this as a foreign minister who travels frequently outside the european union - are envious of this model. i am not saying that the european union should be a political union, but that it should be a political union. as you know, the success goes far beyond that: we have open borders and a single market of 500 million people. the european union can point to the fact that disadvantaged regions in europe have achieved growth and prosperity. but we all know, of course, that this success is not automatic and that there is no guarantee of similar success in the next 50 years. that is why we knew on 25 march, the european birthday, what a difficult task we will have to face today, and especially at the european council. the aim is nothing less than to create the new foundations for the european union. it is a renewed treaty framework which will enable us to remain operational in the world of the 21st century in an enlarged union. the main theme of the forthcoming european council on 21 and 22 june will be to set the stage for the success of this treaty reform. the expectations of the summit are high and i think we would do well not to raise them any higher. never could the real reach the imagined: for to think of perfections is easy, to realize them is very difficult. so said balthasar gracián as early as the 17th century. we are doing well to approach the matter with realism in the european council. i am optimistic, however, because the eu has shown, especially in recent months, that it is capable of taking decisive action when its member states are ready to do so. i would remind you of the groundbreaking climate and energy decisions of last spring's summit, which, as the debate in heiligendamm shows, have become something of a benchmark for the entire international climate change debate. or think of two very recent european legislative projects: the roaming regulation and the creation of a common european payment area. i know that the european parliament was very much involved in both projects. concrete policies in the service of citizens, responsible and forward-looking external action - this is also part of the philosophy of the forthcoming european council, and i will say what we will be dealing with outside the main constitutional issue: for example, the efforts to establish a common integration policy. we have done well in seeking common solutions with the north african transit countries. but we also know that strengthening frontex and strengthening the coastguard of the north african states is not enough to create a migration policy. we need help for the transit countries and above all we need economic stabilization for the countries from which most refugees are coming to europe. the fact that the european ministers of the interior and of labour have now met for the first time to hold joint talks is very welcome. another area of justice and home affairs policy that is of particular concern to people in the new member states is the extension of freedom of movement within the eu. we therefore want to make preparations for the enlargement of the schengen area as quickly as possible, so that this enlargement can be completed in 2008. we will also present a report on the further development of the european neighbourhood policy at the european council. we have every interest - and colleagues share this - in linking our neighbours to the south and east as closely as possible to the european union. and we will do this through increased sectoral cooperation, for example in the energy sector, in the transport sector, through participation in the internal market, adoption of eu law and intensive exchanges in education and culture. there's a lot of work to be done. i am also glad that i have personally committed myself to the adoption of a new european union approach to central asia. this is a region which has not been so much in the spotlight of europe so far, but with which we must seek closer cooperation, and i stress this again, not only because of the economic opportunities that lie in this region, but also because this is a region which is highly affected by the instability on the southern borders, see afghanistan and iran, and because it is a region which stands for a moderate islam and therefore remains available to us as a partner. i am aware, of course, that the success of the european council does not depend decisively on the issues i have just briefly mentioned. all these issues are important, but of course the success or failure is measured by another issue, and that is the question of successful treaty reform within the european union. i am aware that the european parliament has given a great deal of support to the presidency on this issue. thank you for that. i had a brief look at the crespo-brok report yesterday and i think that in this report you have managed to maintain the difficult balance between the desire to achieve a good and ambitious result and the necessary realism, which i mentioned earlier and without which an agreement is not possible. you all know the initial situation. i found it in the report: 18 member states have ratified it. these 18 member states are no easier partners for us to talk to than those in a different situation in the ratification procedure. we know that there have been negative referendums, and behind them are the fears of the people of france and the netherlands, and probably not only there. we must take these fears seriously. i have had discussions with many of you and i see that the european parliament is also prepared to take account of these concerns. however, this too must be said in the light of the latest opinion polls. the people of europe are not against europe. on the contrary! they want a european union that is capable of action, that is efficient, that focuses on the essentials, that tackles problems and really solves them. i am convinced that the major european reform package with which we have entered the debate takes up many of the arguments which still form the basis of the criticism of the eu today, namely that the european union is too inefficient and too lazy in its decisions. i am therefore pleased that the talks i have had have shown that all the partners in europe are willing to implement the institutional reform package which i believe we urgently need, because they all know that only through institutional reform will we be able to make europe more democratic, more transparent and more capable of action. i have not seen anyone who thinks that renegotiating this institutional reform package will put us in a better position. i also had the impression that there was a general consensus on the policies. this concerns the european union's external relations, justice and home affairs, energy policy and the social dimension. there is broad agreement that we must preserve the progress we have made. the debate is whether we need to add to the substantive policies. i see a predominant willingness to add to the areas of climate protection and energy solidarity, both of which the european council has also said should be given special importance. i know you're looking with particular interest at that part of the bill of rights. the overwhelming majority - almost without exception - agree with us that we need to make the charter of fundamental rights binding, i.e. that we should maintain its binding legal character. (applause from the centre) others point out that legal binding cannot be at the expense of competences in the member states. i believe that we can find a solution in this area, which will also be approved by the european parliament. i think the consultations also showed that it is recognised that we have followed the subsidiarity principle with the european reform package. however, some also want to ensure that national parliaments are able to exercise their rights more effectively. we have spent a great deal of time discussing this with our european colleagues. we understood the desire, now we must respond to it. i would urge that this be done in a way - and we will of course put forward proposals - that does not contribute to increasing the number of veto positions in europe. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. (applause from the centre) in any case, i have the impression that all those involved take seriously the berlin declaration on one point, namely that the european union should be placed on a renewed basis by the time of the european parliament elections in 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it seems to me that a corridor of solutions is now gradually emerging in which an agreement could be reached at the european council. one thing is clear: we are not there yet. we have about two weeks until the european council. we shall of course use this time above all for further consultations with those with whom the proposed solutions have not yet been worked out in agreement. but i say again, the chance of agreement is really there. if we don't take this chance now, there won't be another one. the key will be to build the common political will for an agreement. europe is a team! this was the philosophy at the beginning of our presidency and it will be the philosophy of the forthcoming european council. ladies and gentlemen, i know that some of you would have liked to have had more details on the individual discussions with the european member states. but please understand that we must make the prospects for success for the council as clear as possible. i do not therefore want to use public comments to undermine what we have gradually achieved in many talks in recent weeks. (applause from the centre)
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the next european council will be a very important test of the european union’s ability to deal with new and difficult challenges and to look ahead with ambition. the main issue, which will be the real test for the german presidency, is the treaty settlement, but the conclusions will touch on several other issues, and rightly so. it is important to show that the union is willing to deliver the right policies for its citizens directly and by creating an effective and democratic europe. this is all part of the same effort to move closer to citizens and to serve the common interest. mr steinmeier has given a comprehensive overview of the council agenda, so let me touch upon just three issues. first, migration: the increasing challenges and opportunities posed by international migration must be addressed in a spirit of true solidarity. recent events have underlined the importance of that. it means recognising that better coordination is needed to face up to the ever-increasing flows of migrants at our borders and in our seas but also to reap the benefits of migration for the labour market and for society at large. at the same time, illegal migration and trafficking in human beings are on the rise and require our immediate attention. the european council will be asked to apply a comprehensive approach to migration to the eu’s eastern and south-eastern neighbours. the european council should also pay attention to the need to further reinforce the management of our external borders. the rapid border intervention teams should become active very soon. secondly, the european council will return to the crucial issue of hiv/aids. the hiv/aids epidemic is a critically important public health issue for europe. we can only tackle it together by ensuring political leadership from the top and the involvement of civil society at all levels. it requires devoting attention to prevention, research, surveillance, treatment, care and support inside the union and in neighbouring countries. i would like to pay tribute to the german presidency for keeping this issue on the agenda, despite the fact that this is not often recognised in media reports about the council. thirdly, i would like to say a few words about climate change. it will not be at the core of the june summit agenda but, in the wake of the g8 meeting, it would be impossible for the european council to be silent on this issue. i want to assure this parliament that the commission is working very hard to meet the expectations of the european parliament and the european council and to maintain an ambitious and dynamic policy, both internationally and in the european union. specific legislative proposals will be adopted by the commission in the autumn and we intend to build on the european union’s credibility and leadership in fighting climate change. those are some of the key policy issues that will be covered by the european council. however, as we all know, the key issue will be to move forward to a treaty settlement. i need not repeat here the urgency of the matter or its significance for europe’s future. we discussed it here yesterday and our discussion on the brok and barón crespo report left no doubts about what is at stake. i believe that we can be cautiously optimistic about the results, even though i understand that we should perhaps not raise expectations even higher. the german presidency, as we have noted, has already made huge efforts over the last few months to build a new consensus among member states. the berlin declaration reminded us of what we were trying to achieve together, how much we have in common and how europe has made and will make a difference for the peoples of europe. since then, the presidency has been listening to the position of parliament, the commission and every member state. all have shown their willingness to find a solution to move europe forward. for the commission, the starting point for a new treaty settlement is clear. in terms of serving europe’s citizens, this discussion is not a theoretical institutional debate: the institutions are there to respond to citizens’ needs, to realise policy goals and to deliver results. they need the right way of working and the right standards of democracy, transparency and accountability. we cannot implement our agreed policies with one hand tied behind our back. we need the capacity to act in a changed environment in the europe of a globalised world. what does this mean for the european council? it means that we need a fair and balanced solution, able to command a true consensus. a second failure might have dramatic consequences for european construction. however, it also means maintaining a high level of ambition. a lowest common denominator solution might bring short-term harmony, but it could also store up problems for the future. simply introducing minor changes in the treaty of nice will not be sufficient. the commission welcomes the efforts to find a solution, and the first place to look for solutions is the constitutional treaty. regarding the substance, the major part of that work remains valid. the changes introduced by the constitutional treaty are still pertinent and they need to be translated into reality, not questioned. the community method must be protected, including the commission’s right of initiative. a single-pillar structure and a single legal personality would tangibly enhance the union’s capacity to speak with one voice and to act in a global world. parliament’s enhanced role and the advances in qualified majority voting should be preserved. as we see it, the constitutional treaty also brought a very good solution on how to involve national parliaments, one that strikes the right balance between the role of national parliaments and the role of the european parliament. similarly, we will defend the legally binding force of the charter of fundamental rights, which forms an integral part of the package agreed by the convention and the igc. we acknowledge that some changes must be made and we respect all those who have expressed their views in this regard. we will not run away from a serious discussion about the form of the text, the eu symbols or other areas that have been mentioned for discussion. as far as the form of the new text is concerned, we will do our utmost to ensure that any new text will be readable and accessible. our position in the negotiations will be ambitious and firm. let me also add a point that is closely linked to our debate on the treaty settlement. we do not just need a deal among the institutions and the member states; we are equally in need of a new narrative, a new way to explain to citizens what is at stake. we need to explain why the enlarged union needs a new treaty that provides more democracy, more coherence and a union strong enough to meet citizens’ expectations. europe’s citizens welcome the eu’s commitment to tackling today’s key policy challenges: climate change, migration, energy – the areas that mr steinmeier has already mentioned. this is what they expect, but we have not yet succeeded in persuading them to make the connection between effectiveness in these areas and an appropriate treaty settlement. all too often people still feel that the debate on the treaties and the constitution is the preserve of a rather small brussels clique. we need to show that it is a question of having the right tools to serve agreed political objectives. we need to continue to focus on debating the ways to achieve these objectives. parliament and the commission have made a major contribution together through the plan d strategy. if the reflection period is over, that does not mean that we should scale down our efforts to engage civil society and citizens in a debate about the future of europe. it will be of crucial importance in the european council, in an intergovernmental conference and in the ratification phase to show that a settlement is of real, direct benefit to citizens. i was happy to hear that most member states are clearly in agreement with the presidency’s approach for a short intergovernmental conference with a clear and precise mandate to negotiate a rather limited list of issues. as for the commission, we will be vigorously pursuing our role as the voice of the common european interest. the road to a treaty settlement has not always been easy, but we are hopefully back on track. if we can hold our nerve and stay focused on the needs of an effective and democratic europe, the result will give us a european union that can face the challenges of the 21st century with confidence. (applause)
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the european council is a very good one.
in writing. following the vote in favour of the prüm convention, an enhanced version of the schengen convention, the sis ii information system and the decision on the uncontrolled and unhindered collection and exchange of personal data - including those relating to political, ideological, philosophical and religious beliefs - the european parliament also approved the vis. this system, which legitimizes the collection, processing and exchange of personal and biometric data of all foreigners applying for visas to any eu country, to which the law enforcement and intelligence agencies of each member state have access, adds another link to the chain that the eu is looping around individual rights. the eu's ambition is 'to make the vis the largest biometric database in the world'! - what ? the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to do so in a way that is compatible with the principles of the european union. the eu is increasingly becoming a stronghold for its own people and for citizens of third countries. but as capital intensifies the measures of repression and suffocating restriction of workers' rights to consolidate and secure its domination, so will the currents of resistance, disobedience, and inevitable struggle to overthrow the power of the monopolies and their reactionary union grow.
in writing. the european parliament gave its 'green light' today to incorporate the main provisions of the proms convention, known as schengen iii, into the so-called 'community acquis' and into the national legislation of the member states in a simplified way, i.e. without the signature and ratification procedures required for international treaties. these provisions oblige member states to set up dna files and allow law enforcement agencies to collect, store, process and automatically exchange dna data, fingerprints and other data and information even on persons suspected of committing criminal offences or of endangering public order and security. it provides that the purpose of exchanging such information is to safeguard public order in international mobilizations, in particular in view of eu summits. that is why it gives the right of joint operations and full powers, even the use of weapons, to foreign police authorities. the kke has denounced the further criminalisation of political and trade union activity, the preventive approach and the intensification of the preventive repression of popular movements promoted by the provisions of the treaty. the peoples must condemn this treaty, which is dangerous for individual rights and democratic freedoms, and must intensify their struggle against the intensification of authoritarian measures and the eu's anti-democratic and anti-people policy in general.
in writing. the kke votes against the report because, despite the improvements it proposes in the new version of the council framework decision, it accepts in essence its basic philosophy as a whole, which is the unlimited and practically uncontrollable ability of the eu's repressive mechanisms and the law enforcement authorities not only of its member states but also of third countries (such as the usa), even private individuals (!) to collect, process and exchange all the personal data of every eu citizen, including data concerning his political and trade union activity, his ideological, philosophical and religious beliefs! the target of repression is now every eu citizen, since it is allowed to collect and transfer personal data of any person without even being suspected of any act, simply for reasons of public order and security! the addition of 15 guiding principles for the protection of personal data is nothing more than a catalogue and an exposition of ideas, without any possibility of enforcing compliance with them by the law enforcement mechanisms. in fact, there is no protection at all, since exceptions to protection become the rule, simply and uncontrollably invoked on grounds of public security, while data protection is the exception, and almost impossible to enforce.
in writing. the proposed revision of the fruit and vegetables regulation is aimed at adapting it to the new cap, the eu's budgetary perspective and the wto. the decoupling of subsidies from production, the substantial reduction of community support and the abolition of the remaining traces of export subsidies will lead to an increase in imports and a reduction in exports, a shrinking of the manufacturing industry and the conversion of some factories into packaging plants for imported raw materials, a drastic reduction or even abandonment of some crops in which aid contributes a significant percentage of agricultural income. in greece the main victims will be the growers of juiced oranges, industrial tomatoes and raisins, products that are characteristic of the country. the result will be the concentration of fruit and vegetable production in a few hands, the massive uprooting of small and medium-sized farmers by means of decoupled subsidies, the increase in the profitability of the commercial manufacturers by ensuring cheap raw materials, both domestic and imported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the reluctance of farmers to join the cp is due to their role as intermediaries between farmers and the industrialists, in the interests of the industrialists. the kke meps are opposed to this and are voting against it because the proposed changes are another blow to small and mediumsized farmers.
in writing. the report attempts to resurrect the euro-constitution. the european parliament is defiantly contemptuous of the rejection and condemnation of the 'euro-constitution' by the french and dutch people, as well as other peoples whose governments have deprived them of the right to express themselves, through referendums. the well-known coalition of political representatives of capital (conservatives, socialists and liberals) and the green group calls on the governments of the member states to reach an agreement before the end of 2007. to adopt and put into effect the "european constitution" before the 2009 european elections, with the same reactionary content - perhaps with a different wrapping - in order to deceive the people. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the people. any 'constitutional' treaty is a treaty that safeguards and promotes the interests and aspirations of big eu capital, as are the current eu treaties and previous eec treaties. the european plutocracy, the imperialists and their minions need a euro-constitution. to shield their power. to safeguard the capitalist system. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. they're supposed to suppress popular movements. to escalate the aggressive policy of intervention and war. the interests of the peoples are the final burial of the 'constitutional treaty' and of the eu itself.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mr hökmark on the excellent way in which he has approached this issue, and secondly, i would also like to stress that the lack of access to broadband is one aspect of the more general problem commonly referred to as the digital divide. in particular, what exists between generations, businesses and regions. the problem is most acute in remote and inaccessible areas such as islands and mountains, as well as in rural areas where demand is extremely weak and hence commercial interest is low. competition is therefore not in itself the solution to the problem. targeted actions are needed to address the broadband gap more generally. some of the actions i consider important are: member states should intensify computer science learning in compulsory education and encourage the development of content, especially in their own language. this will help penetrate wider layers of the citizenry. i believe that subsidies for the acquisition of broadband and appropriate equipment will also help groups of economically weak citizens. citizens themselves need to learn about the major practical applications of broadband, such as teleworking, new medical diagnosis and care services, modernised education and public services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they offer opportunities for new, innovative smes and for productivity growth in general. finally, i believe that public funding and public-private partnerships in underserved areas need to be further developed.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it is a comprehensive, balanced and essentially realistic report, because it reflects the present state of relations between the european union and russia. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is not just the statistics on economic and trade relations that require us to move in this direction. it is also not just the fact that russia has large reserves of energy resources. it is above all, ladies and gentlemen, the history and geography of the european continent itself which - and in the present circumstances still - impose the need for a new integrated and balanced strategic relationship between europe and russia. a relationship that should be based on mutual respect and mutual benefit. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe. the common challenges we face and the common opportunities we can harness for the security, stability, development and prosperity of our peoples, as well as cooperation in solving serious global and regional problems. in this context, ladies and gentlemen, we must overcome the historical past of confrontation and mutual suspicion. it is a common need to work towards establishing a new climate of mutual trust. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east, and that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east. no one has an interest in a new confrontation, a new cold war. and that's on both sides. the european union should develop a common strategic vision for russia in all areas of cooperation. to speak with one voice and to express its solidarity collectively with each member state. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states, and that the energy sector is not left to the discretion of the member states. the european union and russia have made important progress in relations in recent years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
madam president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very important report. ladies and gentlemen, the ten years of partnership between the european union and russia are a sufficient foundation for building a deeper and broader relationship between the two sides. the declared objectives of creating four common areas must, in my view, despite the ongoing crisis of confidence, remain politically binding in the negotiation process of the new framework after 2007. the establishment of an integrated and open market in a common economic area between the union and russia will be fuelled and re-fuelled by russia's accession to the world trade organisation. to those who express reservations about russia's accession to the world trading system, i would point out that a market as large as the russian market is better served by being part of the wto's procedures, rules and disciplines than by operating on the terms of a stowaway, a free rider. i would also add that the union should take the initiative to open negotiations with a view to integrating trade and investment in the energy sector more fully into the multilateral trading system. security of supply is a top priority for the union. the eu is also called upon to contribute to this by bilateral agreements between member states of the union and russia. the agreement between russia, greece and bulgaria on the construction of the burgas-alexandroupoli oil pipeline is a strategic contribution to european energy infrastructure. the commission has also considered it to be a project of pan-european interest under the inogate programme. ladies and gentlemen, in its relations with russia, the union is called upon to act in terms of political coordination and institutional approach and not in terms of an anarchic international system.
madam president, commissioner, ms deserves - and must be - recognized through better patient support and through the search for useful solutions. this can be achieved by providing equal access to health services for all citizens and by providing equal access to all effective means. there are wide differences in the quality of care between member states. the adoption of the code of good practice proposed by the european parliament expresses our political will to define uniform methods of care and rehabilitation activities. this will support the right to independent living, which requires the provision of timely and appropriate health and social care for dignity and autonomy. the aim is to increase the number of studies and to improve their coordination. the mc bay case showed that even one, and only one, fighting citizen is enough to turn the attention of decision makers to a case that may be unknown at times or neglected. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. what role will the commission play?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the future of the european economy and the development of competitiveness and employment in the european union will depend to a large extent on the level of education and training of citizens, and particularly young people, so that they can contribute to economic growth and social cohesion in europe. efforts at both european and national level have borne fruit. in 2004, the majority of young people aged 20-24 in the eu-25 were in higher education. however, the extension of the period of study associated with placements, retraining, retraining, lifelong learning, etc., leads young people to postpone the formation of their personal, private lives, the creation of a family and the realization of their desires. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. having children in old age is also problematic for health reasons. it is a burden on public health and an obstacle to europe's demographic growth. the creation of a family-friendly society - as envisaged in the european youth pact - therefore leads to the need to combine private, family life with working life, but also with the period of study, which we see is very long. the report before us today seeks to demonstrate this need for a policy approach to support young people. it will enable them to carry out their educational plans and to respond to their family life, whether it be the rearing of children or the support of the elderly in the family environment, because we know that in a few decades two thirds of europeans will be elderly. many students already lead such a life, that is, study and family. but the rate varies from state to state, and while in sweden we have 41% of cases, in greece we have 12%, in austria 10%, in latvia 10%. the commission's proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and investment firms is a good example of this. the report, which does not wish to touch on subsidiarity, aims to recognize and respond to the economic and social needs of young men and women who, in addition to their studies and training, have family responsibilities. member states have the power to provide specific social assistance to encourage young people to take on family responsibilities, regardless of whether they are working or whether their parents have an income. financial facilities may also be provided in the form of loans, provision of cheap housing, adequate custodial services within universities, social and health coverage, more flexibility during studies, sensitization of teaching staff to the special needs of student parents or students with family responsibilities, and use of new technologies to facilitate them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. i am particularly pleased that the commission has recognised in its communication the need to combine study, training and family life. i hope that my report will inspire future proposals for family-friendly measures, for youth and for tackling the demographic problem with a view to the future. i would like to thank my colleagues for the amendments which have improved the report, but i would like to say that we cannot support amendments which cut back on the content of the report or add to it elements which are not relevant to its subject. i hope, therefore, that my report will be supported.
mr president, we are discussing two important goods today. perhaps most important of all, having children and, at the same time, studying. for learning, for knowledge. but these two things may be colliding lately. because the reproductive age of a woman, according to scientists, is about 35 years. when half of those years are spent in school, reaching 30 - 32 with master's and doctoral degrees, precious time is lost to make a child. so we only pass this supreme good on to the wealthy. the rich man can afford to educate his child, and the woman can also educate and have children. the man who has no means of support, "postpones" the birth of the child, and that, if you will, is a crime. it is a class difference that we must not allow. we must find ways and means of enabling young people in school, through financial support, to start families, to have children. we need children. in my country, we have a huge under-fertility problem. children are a subject that requires special attention.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to emphasize my opposition to amendments nos 7 and 8. the vote was not taken and i object to it because its content is not relevant. it is a question of subsidiarity and, personally, i believe that the reference to exceptions weakens the principle of equal treatment. i hope that the report will have a good effect and help everyone, without exception.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, first of all i do not think that any citizen of the world has confidence in this g8 summit. it reminds me of the feudal lords 400 years ago, who used to get together and decide things in the wilderness of the peoples. it's a modern feudalism too. the g8 will be meeting, and by lottery, eight representatives of poor countries will be there. this is africa we're talking about. name me a big hospital that exists all over africa. would you, mr president, go to tanzania for a serious health problem? you'd go to germany or england. name me a large bank headquartered in africa. all the big banks we trust with our money are in the northern hemisphere. there's a certain kind of racism. let's confess him at last. or at least there is a tolerance for racism towards those countries. what we give them is the purple boar we give to someone who cleans our windows. there should be a decision, an ideology that all citizens of the world should have the same rights in democracy and in health and in participating in decisions that affect them. what is happening today, mr president, i do not think is democracy. we share the wealth, we create cancer all over the world, while the superpower america does not agree to support kyoto, resulting in death, and excessive heat affecting the whole world - except these people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must be careful, because otherwise a new aids will come from there, which will be more devastating than this aids that is sending many citizens of the northern hemisphere to the other world.
mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs kinnock on her initiative in drawing up a report on such an important subject. it is interesting for the european parliament, now halfway through the time frame set for the achievement of the millennium development goals, to see how far we are from their completion and, by extension, to review some of the means of achieving them. it is regrettable that many countries in the poorest region of the world, sub-saharan africa, are significantly behind in achieving the millennium development goals. it is clear that the millennium development goals will not be achieved unless the poorest developing countries receive increased and improved assistance to complement the mobilisation of their own domestic resources. the united nations, the african union, the g8 and the european union should follow current estimates of an increase of some eur 3.7 billion per year in their aid to africa. the european union, as the largest donor of humanitarian aid, must also continue to work towards the cancellation of the debts of developing countries. i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the work done by the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy in this report. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. in addition to the objective of universal primary education, which was included in the 1990 world summit for children's conclusions, the objective was that by the year 2000 all the world's children should have access to education and at least 80% of them should have the opportunity to complete basic education. but unfortunately we are far from that goal. developing countries must realise that if they do not invest in the quality of their human resources, they are doomed to perpetuate their developmental status quo.
member of the commission. mr president, the principal aims of the eu legislative framework are a high degree of protection of road traffic accident victims, the promotion of free circulation of vehicles and the encouragement of cross-border activities of insurance undertakings. the eu legal framework for compulsory motor insurance is a major eu success story. developed since the early 1970s, it has been a fundamental factor in making the free movement of motorists and their vehicles in the union a reality. the motor insurance directives have permitted the abolition of border checks on insurance, so the vehicles can be driven as easily between member states as between one country. they also allow for easy compensation for the thousands of accidents involving vehicles from more than one member state. the motor insurance directives require that insurers have a local presence for claims settlement and oblige them to be members of the local guarantee fund and the local green card bureau. this is to protect victims, in particular from having to enter into cross-border negotiations with an insurance company established in another member state. the membership of the local green card bureau ensures a smooth functioning of a system without a need to check the insurance certificates. all eu member states, switzerland, norway, iceland, croatia and andorra participate on the basis of the ‘multilateral agreement’. the link between the country where the vehicle is registered and the insurer’s membership of that country’s guarantee fund is also an expression of the solidarity of the local motoring population. european consumers have the possibility to seek motor insurance cover eu-wide as far as the above specific conditions set for insurers are met. whether insurers are prepared to enter into insurance contracts for cars registered in another country depends largely on the insurers’ commercial policy and their willingness to cover risks largely or wholly situated in another country, where the risk structures may be substantially different from what they are familiar with in their home country. with this in mind, it is perhaps not surprising that the volume of cross-frontier business in this branch is very limited. however, some argue that there is a lack of competition and that a higher volume of cross-frontier business might bring down motor insurance premium levels. we are assessing this question as part of our ongoing public consultation on retail financial services.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your answer, but i will insist on my question in the light of this morning's debate and the huge equitable life scandal with the millions of victims demanding their fair compensation because of the mismanagement of the insurance company. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the internal market, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take the initiative in the area of the internal market. in that case he will also be fully responsible for his choice.
member of the commission. mr president, mr medina ortega, you know that at the moment there are delegations of the european commission in which we do not have experts of all kinds, but, as i said, we are trying to provide training, but in the future it would certainly be good to have more experts. i am always open to the member states appointing officials to the commission delegations. we have done so, for example, in mauritania, in response to a request from the vice-president of the spanish government, who came to see me and asked for this, and i immediately opened the delegations. as for frontex, you know that it is an agency of the member states, and that is why it is more complicated, but franco frattini, with great volunteerism, with great support from us, including me, has already achieved quite a lot, although, of course, more still needs to be done in the future. and you also know that we have worked in mauritania and morocco, with, i would say, large funds and with this training programme, with border management, to help these countries, but also the member countries of the european union, to be able to face this great challenge that is today immigration, especially illegal.
member of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office, the commission is now finalising its examination of the revised figures for greek gdp and gnp, in which it has used the same procedure as for all other member states. the procedure and timetable followed is as follows: on 22 september last year, greece submitted to the commission the revised figures for its gross domestic product and gross national product. this data represented an upward revision of approximately 26%. at the end of october last year, therefore, one month after receiving this documentation, eurostat transmitted these data for initial examination to the gni committee of the member states. the committee then made a statement stating that it did not have sufficient information on the revised data and methodological changes communicated by greece. the committee also stressed the urgent need for greece to cooperate fully with eurostat and provide a fully revised inventory of its gdp and gnp, explaining in detail the new sources and methods used in the greek national accounts, in order to enable eurostat to carry out a full verification of the new data and to report the results of this verification to the committee. the revision of the inventory was submitted by greece to eurostat on 6 february this year in a 460-page document written in greek. eurostat, after the corresponding translation, is finalising the examination of this documentation and will send a mission to greece before the end of this month. this mission, like those carried out in other countries, involves experts from other member states in order to ensure the necessary degree of transparency. the results of the mission will be analysed with greece first and the comments made thereon will be taken into account in the final drafting of the evaluation report on the revised greek gnp and gdp figures. this report will be submitted by eurostat to the committee for a broad discussion. it is expected that this presentation may take place no later than october 2007. as regards the second part of your question, our spring forecast, based on unrevised greek gdp figures, estimates the government deficit for this year to be reduced to 2.4% compared with 2.6% last year. for 2008, the commission forecasts, assuming no change in current policies, a slight increase in the general government deficit from 2.4% to 2.7%. all this by handling the gdp figures before the revision. the debt ratio is projected to decline further from 104,5% of gdp in 2006 to around 100,7% in 2007 and 97,5% in 2008. on the basis of these data, on 16 may the commission recommended to the council that the excessive deficit procedure, which had been opened two years earlier, be abolished, and on 5 june the ecofin council adopted the decision to close the procedure, following the commission's proposal. also, on the recommendation of the commission, the ecofin council adopted on 27 february this year its opinion on the updated stability programme of greece for the years 2006 to 2009 and in that opinion ecofin recommends that greece take advantage of favourable circumstances to move towards the medium-term objective 'balanced budget' to further improve the budgetary process, increase its transparency and define a budgetary strategy for a longer-term perspective that effectively applies mechanisms for the monitoring and control of primary expenditure. in addition, and in view of the high debt burden and the expected increase as a result of ageing, the greek authorities are recommended to prepare as soon as possible future projections of such ageing-related expenditure and to improve the long-term sustainability of public accounts by putting in place the necessary means to achieve the medium-term objective. on 20 april, the greek minister for the economy and finance, following the eurogroup meeting in berlin, formally and publicly announced that the government had decided to bring forward the deadline for reaching this medium-term budgetary objective from 2012 to 2010.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your detailed reply. in a statement after 5 june you expressed the commission's concern about the high deficit in the greek economy's balance of trade and recommended strict measures to ensure that the deficit and debt reduction is sustainable and continuous. i would ask you, therefore, have you discussed these measures proposed by the commission with the greek government? do you have any answers and commitments from the greek government on the measures you consider necessary?
member of the commission. mr president, i can only repeat what i said in my reply to mrs ludford when she put her question. the commission has to ensure that community rules are complied with - and there are, as i said, a number of directives which apply - and it is our responsibility to ensure that they are applied effectively. but in the specific case which has given rise to mrs ludford's question on the third track - i repeat - it is a matter for the british authorities and, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, the commission cannot interfere with the powers of the authorities of a member state.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the publication of its white paper in 2001, the commission has consistently stressed the importance it attaches to the quality of governance in its action to ensure that the european institutions function effectively and democratically in fruitful cooperation with civil society. governance is a matter of all policies. governance does not only affect the environment, it affects all policies equally. but we must recognize that citizens and non-governmental organisations place a special emphasis on the quality of their environment and that civil society wants to be informed and involved in environmental matters. in this respect, the 1998 aarhus convention is of particular importance, as it provides for access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters. this aarhus convention, to which the european community and the member states are parties, reinforces the commitments mentioned in the white paper on governance. the commission has fully applied the principles of governance in its initiatives. as regards the issues raised by the honourable member in his question, i would point out that all the important measures which the commission intends to present to other institutions are included in its annual work programme. this programme is presented to the other institutions, including, of course, the european parliament, which debates it year after year, and it is also accessible to the general public. a large part of the environmental measures is based on the sixth community environment action programme. all the commission's proposals fully reflect the commitments entered into by the community in international agreements, including those relating to trade policy and the environment. finally, the commission is actively involved in the debate on improving international environmental management. the european union has put forward a concrete proposal to create a united nations environmental organization on the basis of a united nations environment programme. this body would have clear authority and regulatory functions in early detection, monitoring and data retrieval and would operate on a sound scientific basis, thereby improving decision-making and policy-making based on scientific evidence.
the environmental acquis comprises some 400 secondary legislation and international conventions. the users and implementers are of course governments, local authorities, businesses, civil society. what has this infamous strategy of better regulation produced so far? two years ago i proposed in this very room the need for an international environmental organization. what is the commission's position? the environment, as we know, as a public good knows no borders. what is the commission's position on the establishment of an international environmental court?
member of the commission. mr president, i am not an expert on the subject, but i can tell you that in this type of action and insofar as both you in your question and i in my answer state that there is illegal transport, anything that can be done beyond what is already being done will be welcome, and this applies both to our own functions of ensuring compliance with european standards and - and i said this in the initial reply - to the actions of the member states, which are the ones that have the instruments of surveillance and inspection on the ground. as for the places where this kind of illegal activity is taking place, according to the information available - as i told you and pointed out to you in the reply - such transfers are not only taking place between germany and the czech republic, but also between germany and some other new member states. and it is possible that this transit may also take place beyond the borders of the european union. in any case, as far as transport between member states is concerned, it is particularly useful that, through this debate, we should reaffirm our intention and our commitment on the part of the european institutions to carry out our duties with the utmost energy and to ask the member states' leaders to do the same with theirs.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the member for the question, even though i have to be honest and say that i wish he was tabling it six months from now, because we are currently in the process of preparing our report on exactly this matter, i.e. the implementation of the council recommendation, and we expect to have the report adopted by the end of this year. so we expect to have a discussion on the report, mainly under the slovenian presidency in the first half of next year. this report will provide information on the implementation and possible impact of the recommendation in the member states, in the european economic area states and candidate countries. additionally, wherever possible, the degree of national implementation will be reported in relation to the existing european screening benchmarks in breast and cervical cancer. we expect to derive the facts from two main sources: the member states, which will be directly contacted by the commission, and the european cancer network, which is responsible for obtaining evidence on the impact and the degree of implementation from independent experts in the field. i would like to take the opportunity, additionally, to inform you that we are also collecting cancer epidemiological data through the european union network for information on cancer that was established in 2005, which is co-funded by the commission and managed by the international agency for research on cancer. the aim is to compile information relevant to monitoring the cancer burden in european populations. the end of this project is scheduled for the end of august 2007 – two months from now. all the data, therefore, will in principle be available from that date.
member of the commission. i can assure you that i will do my utmost to have the screening recommendations fulfilled and implemented as much as possible. they are recommendations, nevertheless, and we have to acknowledge this weakness in the european system. therefore, in the end, it is up to each member state to apply and implement them as effectively as possible. perhaps the report will put some pressure on the member states. however, the fact is that, from the information we already have, there is still great diversity between member states as to implementation of their screening guidelines and, unfortunately, the worst situation is in many of the new member states. based on the report, there will be a discussion under the slovenian presidency which they will announce soon to parliament. cancer will be the main health theme during the presidency. therefore, i am sure we will have more opportunities to discuss this issue. from my part, i will do everything to have these guidelines and recommendations applied as effectively and as faithfully as possible.
member of the commission. yes, i know about that, and in fact we had an opportunity to discuss this issue at the informal health council in aachen in april. we have now asked the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), which is working on this issue, to produce guidelines and give advice on this subject. of course, what is covered and what is not covered by the health system is, as you know, the responsibility of the member states, but i believe that, based on the ecdc’s guidance, we can discuss the issue further with the member states and offer science. however, the final decision on finances will be left to the member states.
member of the commission. yes, given the limitations i mentioned earlier as regards responsibility for healthcare, exchange of best practice is one of the best ways for the european union to offer added value in this area. exchange of best practice, networks, centres of reference – all these can work so we can learn from each other and so that one member state can use the expertise and knowledge acquired in another. as you know, we had a debate on the health service initiative a few weeks ago, and cross-border cooperation, networks, exchange of best practices and centres of reference will, in a structured way, be an important part of that initiative. unfortunately, there are still some legal obstacles to such forms of cooperation. these will be sorted out, hopefully, through that initiative as well. this will be one of the basic priorities of that initiative, which we expect to present before the end of the year, in the autumn. we will, therefore, have an opportunity to discuss this in parliament as well.
member of the commission. mr president, the european commission is indeed planning to adopt a new health strategy for 2007, and this strategy will be a more general framework with measurable objectives that will have an integrated approach to all health initiatives at european level. i agree with the suggestion, if you will, in the honourable member's question that children and young people are a particular priority for the european commission. the strategy will address issues such as the importance of a healthy lifestyle, the fight against obesity, smoking and alcohol abuse, but there will also be specific reference to those areas affecting children and young people. of course, as i mentioned in the previous question, our initiative on health, safety and high quality services will be adopted soon and in this context will also take into account the set of common fundamental values adopted by the ministers of health a year ago and which underpin the health care systems of the european union. the values mentioned in the ministers' decision include equality, universality, equal access to health services for all - and of course for children - regardless of their economic situation. they will be taken into account in all relevant initiatives of the european commission. the commission will support the member states in this endeavour, but our own initiatives - wherever they concern the health sector - will take account of these principles. we believe that all this will be a useful reference point for any community action in the field of health.
mr president, i would like to ask you, particularly in relation to children, because the strategy on children's rights is under discussion and the committee responsible for health is not giving an opinion, whether there is any intention of introducing certain tests throughout europe at regular intervals to ensure the level of health and the early diagnosis of diseases.
member of the commission. mr president, in response to comments by mr harbour, mr lambsdorff and mr schwab, i can confirm that the very aim of a dedicated directive on defence procurement is to take account of the specificity of the defence market. we recognise that the existing framework is ill-adapted to the defence market. clearly, the fundamental principles of public procurement rules will have to apply, but defence presents specific requirements in terms of security of supply, security of information or the need to have negotiated procedure. mr harbour also raised the question about offsets, which is a very complex issue. offsets are economic compensations, which most member states require from non-national suppliers when they buy military equipment abroad. they are legally problematic, politically controversial and economically questionable. direct offsets are directly related to the subject of the procurement contract, they can sometimes be covered by article 296, if the procurement contract itself is exempted on the basis of that article. however, the huge majority of offsets are indirect and non-military in nature. from the commission’s viewpoint, these offsets are not covered by article 296. they must respect community law, even if they are related to defence contracts exempted on the basis of article 296. in other words, offsets are a problem in themselves, even in the area covered by article 296. addressing this problem via the defence directive would only cover the community part of the defence market and would leave indirect offsets for contracts exempted on the basis of article 296 untouched. in conclusion, as i said earlier, the opening-up of national defence markets will lead to important economic gains and will ultimately benefit all taxpayers. in order to achieve this we need to create a new legal framework, which adapts certain community procurement rules to the specificities of defence. this new directive will give national authorities greater flexibility when they make sensitive procurements.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to open this debate on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council on the banning of exports and the safe storage of metallic mercury. i should like to thank the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for their efforts so far. i should also like to thank the committee on international trade and its rapporteur, mr holm, for their contribution to this file. mercury is internationally recognised as highly toxic to humans, ecosystems and wildlife. initially seen as an acute local problem, mercury pollution is now also understood to be global, diffuse and chronic. high doses can be fatal to humans and even relatively low doses can have serious adverse neuro-developmental impacts. against this background, the commission developed a comprehensive community strategy concerning mercury, which was adopted in january 2005. its key aim is to reduce mercury levels in the environment and human exposure through a number of actions that address all aspects of the mercury lifecycle. the european parliament welcomed the strategy and its overall approach in the resolution adopted in march 2006. the proposal that is now before you implements two key actions identified in the strategy, namely action 5 (by banning the export of metallic mercury from the community) and action 9 (by requiring the safe storage of mercury that is no longer needed in the chlor-alkali industry). the primary production of mercury came to an end within the community four years ago when the last active mine in almadén in spain stopped its activities. the environmentally desirable phasing-out of mercury-cell technology into chlor-alkali industry results, however, in a new source of mercury supplies: some 12 000 tonnes of surplus mercury will come out of the sector over the next number of years until its transition to mercury-free technologies is completed. most mercury is currently exported from the community, and exports of up to 800 tonnes per year end up, at least partly, in unregulated and uncontrolled uses like artisanal gold mining. this is how eu mercury is adding to global mercury exposure. the basic aim of the proposed regulation is to stop these exports and to ensure that mercury no longer used in the chlor-alkali industry is safely stored and cannot re-enter the environment. on the basis of the impact assessment, the commission also proposes to apply the safe storage requirement to two other industrial sources of mercury – natural gas cleaning and mercury resulting as a byproduct of non-ferrous metal mining. the storage obligation is a logical development from the export ban, as the small remaining internal market for mercury will be unable to absorb the quantities at stake. recycling and recovery will ensure that mercury is still available for remaining legitimate uses. storage operations will fall under the legal framework of the waste landfill directive, with additional safety requirements reflecting the specific properties of metallic mercury. the commission aimed at proposing a straightforward, simple legislative proposal that is backed by a sound knowledge base and avoids, in line with the principles of better regulation, any excessive administrative burden for industry or for public administration. the proposal refrains from taking legislative action in fields where the impact assessment did not provide any solid justification for such action or any clear view on its possible impact. i should also like to underline that the industry concerned, namely the chlor-alkali sector, signalled its support for this proposal and is willing to sign up to a voluntary commitment. this commitment engages industry to select highly qualified storage operators and ensures that key data on mercury flows will be made available. the commission intends to acknowledge this commitment, in line with the principles and procedures set out in the communication on the environmental agreements adopted in 2002. it is not the purpose of the proposal to implement the whole of the mercury strategy: its scope is deliberately more concise. work on other actions of the strategy is ongoing.
the rapporteur. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the mercury is not used in the production of other chemicals. even in low doses, they have adverse effects on our cardiovascular, immune, and reproductive systems. in the environment, mercury can be converted to methylmercury and accumulate in the food chain, especially in an aquatic environment. in fact, in 1956 in the city of minato, japan, 8,000 people died because they had eaten fish high in mercury. mercury is a global problem and requires international and coordinated action to solve it. the european union could not make a convincing case for reducing mercury supply and demand while remaining one of the main suppliers worldwide. the commission proposal for a regulation is a unique opportunity to close the export loop for this dangerous substance. i am particularly pleased that both the environment committee and the legal affairs committee have rejected the double legal basis and have chosen article 175 as the sole basis, as the aim of the regulation is to protect the environment and public health. as regards the date of entry into force of the export ban, i would ask for the following simple and reasonable request: that we in the european parliament stick to the resolution we adopted by a very large majority in march 2006 on the community mercury strategy. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of amendment no 43 in order to be consistent with these stated positions of the european parliament. i believe that mercury compounds and products already subject to restrictions on their use and trade in the european union should also be included in the export ban. something else we approved last march. what message, ladies and gentlemen, are we sending to third countries if we export to them products containing mercury which are banned in the european union because they are dangerous? we shall remember the well-known "bon pour l'orient"? as regards the mercury import ban, it makes no sense to store mercury coming from the european union on the one hand and import mercury for use within the european union on the other. i'm appealing to common sense. the commission's proposals are not only a means of improving the quality of life of the people of europe, but also a means of ensuring that the quality of life of the citizens of europe is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not a single market. as regards the obligation to store the metallic mercury which is no longer used in the chlor-alkali industry, i am again referring to the resolution adopted by the european parliament. i ask that, until appropriate technologies are in place for the final disposal of mercury preferably in solidified form, we have interim storage in recoverable form, either in an underground salt mine or in an above-ground facility used exclusively and equipped for interim storage. otherwise, the storehouse of this toxic substance will be the human body itself. we are not talking about millions of tons. all remaining mercury in the alkali chloride industry is estimated to be about 12,000 tons, the volume of which - because of its high density - is about 1,000 cubic meters. i would also like to see a basic framework of storage conditions to ensure continuous monitoring. safety standards, regular reporting, information exchange and the imposition of penalties in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle in case of non-compliance. the responsibility during temporary storage should lie with the owner of the storage facility, while member states should assume the administrative and financial responsibility for safe final disposal. to this end, i ask the member states to set up a fund, based on financial contributions from the chlor-alkali industry, to secure the necessary resources. i also ask that a register of mercury sellers, traders and buyers be set up to monitor the movement of imports and exports on a regular basis. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the request for an export ban and the problem of storage should be dealt with in the light of these criteria. the relative cost of such an investment in the future is comparatively small in comparison with the many benefits it will bring. the european union, the european parliament, must and can take the lead in the effort to phase out mercury worldwide. i hope that our decisions tomorrow will contribute to that.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the improvement of the transferability of supplementary pension rights (com (2005) 0507 c6-0331/2005 2005/0214 cod)) (a6-0080/2007).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote in the european parliament. it is not possible for workers to be transferred and lose, through mobility, the pension rights and expectations they have built up over years of work in their home countries. and here there are big obstacles and problems from neoliberal policies. i would like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for her important work, but i regret that our political group cannot agree to the report in its final form. the report makes the commission's original proposal worse on the most important issue dealt with in the new directive, namely the conditions for acquiring supplementary pension rights, by calling for a five-year waiting period instead of two and a minimum age of 25 instead of 21. a more favourable provision in article 4 of the directive is necessary in favour of young workers. i therefore ask you to support amendments nos 50 and 51, which are important to us.
in writing. the report, while acknowledging that there is no possibility of storing mercury in a completely safe way, seeks to legitimize a specific kind of 'racism' in terms of geographical distribution by imposing the choice of the spanish province of 'almaden' as the permanent 'home' of the most toxic element on the planet. the worst part is that this imposition of the area from above is justified by the existence of infrastructure and "working hands". in other words, unemployment is being used as a means of blackmailing workers into accepting that their area will be turned into a dumping ground for the toxic mercury waste of the whole eu, with incalculable risks to the health of the inhabitants and the environment. the report's proposal to involve and finance all kinds of ngos in the crucial issue of the application of mercury-free technologies in developing countries and so-called 'transition economies' is moving in the same dangerous direction, ignoring the rules deriving from binding transnational agreements in this field. the kke is abstaining from the vote for these reasons. the jccc argues that the question of location for the storage and management of metallic mercury is a matter for science and the application of its conclusions and not a matter of choices reflecting the interests, profits of the companies.
in writing. the commission proposal for a directive, as shaped by the anti-worker changes voted for jointly by the christian democrats, socialists and liberals, together with new democracy and pasok meps, is boosting public supplementary insurance schemes across the eu. it signals a deterioration in the insurance and pension conditions of workers, a reduction in pensions and an increase in the retirement age. it is accelerating the process of enabling private insurance companies to increase their share in this sector. the main direction of these reactive changes is the so-called "tri-axial" system: primary pension of a subsidiary nature, with an auxiliary pension and occupational insurance in private companies. the attack on workers' rights in the field of supplementary pensions is linked to the attempts of monopolies to use the reserves and these insurance funds to finance their investments, while legitimizing the acceptance of the 'investment risk', that is, the possible loss of workers' money. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the motion for a resolution by the socialist group, which is a very important one, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it. the kke calls on workers to intensify their struggle against the anti-worker, anti-people policy of the eu. to defend the public nature of social security systems. to demand the satisfaction of their contemporary needs, an increase in pensions and a reduction in the retirement age.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. the poor results of the euro-mediterranean process and the major challenges in this region require us to take a serious look at the situation and to make serious political and economic commitments. the tragic situation in the palestinian territories is worsening and developments are sounding the alarm for further deterioration of the situation and call us to a meaningful assessment of our actions and awareness of our responsibilities for the future. we must also give convincing answers to the concerns of european citizens about the management of resources in areas lacking democratic links and management and evaluation mechanisms. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, that the meda programme is our main financial instrument for implementing the accompanying measures of the euro-mediterranean partnership, the political and economic aspects of which are aimed at creating a free trade area, and the cultural and social aspects, which constitute the third pillar. meda ii, the last meda programme we have implemented, was planned to provide the sum of eur 5.3 billion from 2000 to 2006. the meda regulation ended in 2006 and today we have a new european neighbourhood and partnership instrument which came into force in 2007 and we believe that the experiences we have had from meda will be very useful for the new mechanism. i would like to remind you that the annual commitments under meda ii - the bulk of our report is devoted to this budget - ranged from eur 569 million in 2000 to eur 697 million in 2004. we have had a continuous increase, but we must bear in mind that between meda i and meda ii our commitments increased for palestine, syria, algeria and morocco and for regional actions, while they decreased for egypt, jordan, lebanon and tunisia. the increases were also differentiated according to the fields of application. funding for actions involving education, training and financial institutional support was increased, while for other sectors such as agriculture, local development, private sector reforms, fewer resources were committed between meda i and meda ii. in our experience in the european parliament and in the information - and in the court of auditors' report - we believe that the management of the meda programme by the commission has improved markedly compared with previous years and we can say that, on the basis of the political circumstances playing their part in the region, the assessment is satisfactory and many efforts have been made which have gradually led to a smooth allocation of resources, shorter preparation periods and faster disbursement. we could suggest to the european commission that it should take into account, for future actions, that there is a continuous increase in the number of projects and programmes. that the share of our budgetary support in the overall programme is increasing. that the role played by our offices and the division of responsibilities at local level was considered satisfactory and important and that we should increase this decentralisation. that played a role, and we need to strengthen that relationship, the cooperation with the local authorities. we must also do everything we can to strengthen cooperation between the mediterranean countries, our partners in the south-south direction, in order to achieve the much-desired goal of regional cooperation and integration. as regards the areas of financing, we believe that the economic aspect of the partnership should be directed towards social cohesion and sustainable economic development, but we must also not forget that achieving our objectives requires a comprehensive monitoring and strengthening of actions in all areas. we cannot say that some areas are more important than others. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financing of the community's external aid to the palestinian authority is a very important one. from 1994 to 2006, the commission has provided some €2.3 billion to the palestinian people. payments to the palestinian territories are fairly stable between 232 and 260 million between 2002 and 2005. in 2006 alone, €700 million was granted, a record amount to date. as we know from the quartet decision of 9 may 2006, we have the international temporary assistance mechanism and the european commission has allocated an amount of eur 107.5 million through this mechanism to its three funds, one for emergency needs, the other for infrastructure and the third for the payment of the amounts to the beneficiaries, who are the poorest and most vulnerable social groups. the commission has been concerned about our relations with the palestinian authority and how best to meet the needs, both for political and economic support of the palestinian authority itself and for the channelling of humanitarian aid, so to update the report i have proposed two oral amendments: the first concerns paragraph 38, which is an 'obsolete' paragraph, i would say, so we can either delete it or substantially amend it, and also a new paragraph, which refers to the council decisions both to support the new government and to commit through the international mechanism to take the necessary action for humanitarian aid to gaza. i would like to express our commitment that our political group supports it and i believe that i have the support of my colleagues in this new paragraph. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, the european parliament is today opening the dossier on juvenile delinquency. a file that is constantly swelling with unsolved cases, with perpetrators and victims, with a society that is troubled and that is often stigmatized and reacts piecemeal, whether considering these young people as the scourge of our time and seeking to punish them by example, or ignoring their course, or highlighting the causes and importance of their reintegration into society. it is extremely difficult to determine the exact causes of the offending behaviour of a minor, as the specific action of the minor is expressed in the context of a complex process of socialisation and social control. however, two safe conclusions can be drawn. first, the offending minor is in no way a patient whose behaviour is due to physical, mental or psychological abnormalities and second, in analysing the behaviour of minors - offending or not - we must look at the environment in which the minor's personality develops. in the family, in the school, in the friendship, in the social environment. in addition, in our time there are also extrinsic factors, such as the invasion of the media, technology and especially the internet into his life, in such a way that they suddenly land him in the adult world, which often provokes his violent reaction. the commission's report is not so much about interfering in national judicial and criminal systems, since our committee has no competence in this area, but also because the role of the european parliament is very limited. our aim is to highlight best practice at national level, to enhance the exchange of information and experience, to network the relevant bodies and to provide them with institutional, organisational and financial support. the experience gained in each member state is an important indicator for other member states that innovative and alternative measures can work more effectively than traditional measures of detention and criminal treatment of juvenile offenders. an integrated strategy is needed at national and european level, combining measures around three pillars. prevention measures, measures for the social integration of young people and measures for extrajudicial and judicial intervention. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. the regional and local authorities, the school community, the family, non-governmental organisations, the media. the european commission must make it a priority, as detailed in the paragraphs of the report, to: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european observatory on juvenile delinquency, which will be based on the work of the national observatories. secondly, the creation of a european helpline for children. thirdly, the presentation of key policies that need to be focused on immediately: the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe in the form of financial assistance for the development of the transeuropean networks. the second was the publication of a study in collaboration with a network of national experts with the ultimate aim of adopting a commission communication and drawing up an integrated framework programme to combat crime, which would also be financed by a new community budget. key actions of the programme may include actions related to the dissemination of best prevention practices, the measurement and analysis of advanced systems of treatment of juvenile offenders - such as restorative justice - the development of a european standard for the integration and social welfare of young juveniles and offenders and, in particular, the networking of relevant services at local and regional government level. the commissioner, in view of your political sensitivity and your proposals on the rights of the child, should include this reflection of the european parliament in a european plan for young people. bad boys are usually sad boys, they say. let's give them a smile today.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur on the very good work she has done, on the good cooperation we have developed during the examination of the amendments, and on giving us a comprehensive approach to tackling juvenile delinquency. cooperation is needed among all the relevant agencies dealing with children in order to deal with this problem, which is not new to human society. it always has. let me remind you of something that struck me in my childhood, when we were told a story about a convict who was asked who was responsible for you being a major offender in prison today and he mentioned his mother saying that she had first been approached at the age of three by a stolen egg and she accepted it. it is not the fault of working parents - working parents have always worked - but of parents who do not respect basic ethical principles and values, of teachers who do not contribute to the recognition of the first great value, namely respect for the dignity of the human person. that's where it all starts and then we get to taking action and we have to take action and of course we have to punish if you don't like the word, let's tone it down - so we should criticize young people in order to teach them self-control. of course, self-control is taught, as has been said, from a very early age, and so the educators and institutions that we trust from a very early age, our children, have a responsibility as well. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european audiovisual industry, including the creation of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the development of a european audiovisual industry, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european audiovisual production, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural events, the promotion of european cultural and educational activities, and the promotion of european cultural and social aspects of european cultural and cultural heritage. i'm not in favor of the observatory. the member states must take measures and supplement specific actions by funding mechanisms to deal with the problem.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 21 june 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr bogdan klich, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the area of freedom, security and justice: an external dimension strategy and action plan for the implementation of the hague programme (2006/2111 ((ini)) (a6-0223/2007).
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the common system of vat was established in 1967 by the first and second vat directives. these two directives laid down the general structures of the system. the detailed rules for the application of the common system of vat were introduced in 1977 with the adoption of the sixth vat directive. since then, the directive has been amended several times, mainly as a result of the creation of the internal market and the consequent abolition of tax frontiers between member states. since 1 january 2007, the sixth directive has been repealed and replaced by directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax, which incorporates all the amendments made by the acts amending the basic directive. as regards vat rates, the directive provides in principle for the application of a standard rate and one or two reduced rates. the standard rate shall be at least 15%. that threshold shall be fixed until 31 december 2010. the reduced rates of at least 5% apply to goods and services defined in the directive. the directive also provides for certain exceptions and transitional arrangements to this general rule in order to enable member states to react to specific situations. in order to better assess the impact of the reduced rates, the directive also provides that the commission is to submit to the european parliament and the council, by 30 june 2007 at the latest, a global assessment report on the impact of reduced rates applied to local services, in particular in terms of job creation, economic growth and the proper functioning of the internal market, based on the study carried out by an independent expert group on economic issues.
madam president, mr minister, as you have said, the commission should have at its disposal and make public by 30 june 2007 the data on the impact of the different value added tax on economic prosperity and job creation in the member states. it is expected that the different vat rates will have a strong impact on the internal market and the economic prosperity of the member states, thus affecting individual economic indicators and exacerbating inequalities in the economy and society. i ask you, mr minister, are you already aware of the impact of the different vat and if so, what is it? the council has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also said that there have been different developments and decisions in the framework of what is possible in the european union. it should also be the purpose, when the report of the group of experts is presented, of having the facts on the table to be able to assess whether or not there are, so to speak, obstacles to the functioning of the internal market and what the effects are in certain sectors where there have been reduced rates in the past. i ask for your understanding that we should wait for this report. we must then make an assessment together - the council and the european parliament.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am informed that in the past we have had a debate, for example on corporation tax, on the level of tax rates and on the different indicators for a common tax base. you know that some work has been done on this during the german presidency of the council, but no agreement has yet been reached. i would like to say again that we shall deal with the vat as the next item. what does this expert report say? what proposals and evaluations does the commission make? what proposals are being put to the council? the council has not, however, discussed the specific question raised by the honourable member.
the president of the council. the initiative of the kingdom of belgium with a view to the adoption by the council of a framework decision on the recognition and enforcement of professional bans in the european union based on convictions for sexual offences against children was discussed in detail by the council. following this discussion, the article 36 committee decided at its meeting on 22 and 23 march 2007 to address this issue in the context of the framework decision on the implementation and content of the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record and to amend the draft of that framework decision accordingly. at the justice and home affairs council in luxembourg on 13 june 2007, the council reached agreement on a general approach for a framework decision on the implementation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records, and concluded by consensus the initiative of the kingdom of belgium. in particular, this has taken into account the important aspect of the belgian initiative that information on relevant convictions and professional bans issued in one member state is also available to other member states, so that each member state can draw the necessary conclusions from the information needed to protect children from the dangers of sexual abuse.
the president of the council. mr president, i have already said that the initiative has indeed been taken and that the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior have only recently agreed to implement the essential core concern underlying the belgian initiative. apart from certain differences in the information that can be passed on, we have now found a common solution in the european union on the central point on which belgium launched this initiative. i think this is an important step. you will understand that the time remaining to the german presidency will probably no longer be sufficient to reach agreement on other areas.
the president of the council. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i shall now deal less with the decision still to be taken on the amendment of the treaty on a european constitution. but i have made it clear that the ministers of justice reached an agreement on 13 june and that a solution by integrating this essential element of the exchange of criminal records from the belgian initiative has been incorporated into the planned framework decision. it is important to know, first of all, that if only one member state has the information, what happens when someone starts working elsewhere? is this known in the european union? this is now ensured by the framework decision we have found.
the president of the council. i would like to say, from the point of view of the council presidency, that you have asked a very important and justified question. the council is fully aware of the importance of ensuring the well-being of disabled people and children with learning difficulties. the council would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the general legal framework for combating discrimination in employment and occupation on grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. this directive, which is based on article 13 of the treaty, lays down minimum requirements to be met by all member states. however, this legal framework does not extend to insurance or education. however, member states may introduce or maintain provisions which are even more consistent with the principle of equality than those contained in the directive and which provide for protection against discrimination in areas of national competence. as regards the european year of equal opportunities for all, the council notes with satisfaction that the commission intends to publish several studies relevant to your question. these studies are intended to highlight the social situation, including the education and training of disabled people, and to compile statistical information on disabled people, mainly provided by social security authorities, in order to provide a realistic view of the situation of disabled people as a whole, including the educational dimension.
madam president, mr president-in-office, thank you for your reply. i would like to point out that germany as a country has already shown understanding for the disabled and there is legislation which allows them to be insured so that they are treated equally in employment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the president of the council. these are two different areas. the causes of refugee flows will also be an important issue at the african summit under the portuguese presidency in november. what can we do to improve the situation together with the countries of origin? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. what can we do as the european union? there have been recent reflections by commissioner frattini, but also by the german presidency, on the granting of a temporary opportunity to start work. this is being pursued. i am sure that we have also found a first approach at frontex to help countries which may not be able to solve certain problems on the ground and receive frontex support.
the president of the council. at the 2007 eu-us summit, the european union and the united states agreed to: in line with our shared values, we reaffirm our longstanding commitment to ensuring that efforts to combat terrorism are consistent with our obligations under international law, including human rights standards, refugee law and international humanitarian law. we will continue and deepen our ongoing dialogue on the fundamental principles of international law relevant to our common fight against terrorism. this dialogue has contributed to a better understanding of each other's legal framework and is intended to promote our cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the presidency shall regularly inform the european parliament of transatlantic relations, including matters relating to international law. a briefing was held here ahead of the eu-us summit on 24 april 2007. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the council took note of the european parliament resolution of 14 february 2007 on the extraordinary transfer at the general affairs and external relations council meeting on 5 march 2007. the presidency did not request or receive any replies from the member states to the european parliament's resolution. the post of counter-terrorism coordinator is currently under evaluation. the search for a suitable candidate is ongoing.
the president of the council. i think that the european union should be able to play a more active role in the negotiations on the future of the european union, and that the european union should be able to play a more active role in the negotiations on the future of the union. the fact is that much has been done and that there are currently discussions, not at the highest level but at the working level. i beg your indulgence, these are confidential conversations. but the fact that the subject of transatlantic relations is regularly on the agenda will also give us the opportunity in the future to discuss how far we have come in our mutual efforts to clarify this matter.
the president of the council. i do not want to go into your assessment of control in the united states. but i do know that the united states acts in this way because of certain events. but as you know, we are in constant dialogue with the united states on the visa waiver programme so that visa-free travel is extended to other countries of the european union. i shall take this opportunity to raise this matter again and perhaps also to suggest to the portuguese presidency that it should raise this issue in its discussions with the united states.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the american missile defence system, with the planned deployment of ten missiles in poland and a radar system in the czech republic, has not yet been discussed in the council. bilateral cooperation between the united states and certain eu member states in connection with the deployment of elements of the us national missile defence system is the national responsibility of the member states concerned. the council has therefore not considered raising the issue of missile defence in discussions with the united states or nato. the issue of ballistic missile defence is a subject of discussion within nato and the nato-russia council. on 19 april, a special meeting on missile defence was held within the framework of the nato council and the nato-russia council. this issue was also discussed at an informal meeting of nato foreign ministers in oslo on 26 and 27 april.
madam president, i am surprised at the council's response. well, with the americans and nato you don't want to discuss it. in the council, with your czech and polish colleagues, do you intend to discuss this? or have you ceded it all to nato? the german foreign minister has expressed his concern. mr. solana, the same. germany wants smooth euro-russian relations. are you going to discuss this issue during this summit? do you plan to discuss it sometime ? the council is not in a position to give its opinion on the matter, but it is in a position to give its opinion on the matter.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of you in the chamber, but i think there are enough of you to hear me. by adopting in 2005 the strategy for the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice, the european commission is seeking to export to other countries the values embodied in the european union's internal policy, namely the rule of law, respect for human rights and international obligations. the strategy also includes actions in the areas of migration, trafficking in human beings, protection of human rights, terrorism, organised crime, etc. all of which we of course support. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but we all have to realize that this is not an easy task, nor should we expect spectacular results in a short time. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the unapproved constitutional treaty, of course, provided for solutions that raised the prestige of parliament, which created the conditions for parliament to be a parliament. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in any event, the commission should be more willing to cooperate more closely with parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is very interesting and i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. first of all, however, i would like to point out that a logical prerequisite for using the digital environment is the development and dissemination of computer literacy to all european citizens, as well as cheap internet access in all countries without exception. the internet is a great opportunity for businesses, but especially for consumers, to make the most of the internal market. the opening up of the market through digital communication tools was also aimed at the benefit of the citizen, who will have a wider choice of products and services of better quality and at competitive prices. these benefits, however, can only be provided under certain conditions. the european digital market is neither strong nor uniform and the proportion of consumers, in particular natural persons, who transact electronically, and particularly cross-border, is very low due to the general uncertainty. but if legal protection is strengthened at all three stages of the transaction, i.e. before, during and after the transaction, then we will be able to guarantee a safe environment, both for transactions and for the privacy of citizens. the following could help to achieve this: continuous and timely information for consumers on their rights and obligations; integration of consumer policy into other community policies; better control of markets to avoid possible abuse by the stronger parties, particularly large companies; the possibility of collective redress for effective redress of possible damage; and, finally, the strengthening of independent consumer organisations. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. and as long as there are regions or even countries where access itself and fast and cheap internet access are still unknown words, then i am very afraid that we will identify the digital divide and approach the digital environment theoretically.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would first of all like to thank all the colleagues from the various political groups who have worked with me on this report, which is so important for our euro-mediterranean partnership, but also contains important and sensitive points relating to the financing of the palestinian authority. the amendment referred to by mr casaca - he knows that we made it together - has a parenthesis at the end 'via, especially, the tim' which is part of the oral amendment. i have no other amendment to make than to delete paragraph 38, which refers to the mecca agreement and a government of national unity and which is outdated and is replaced by the paragraph just read by mr casaca, but with the parenthesis 'via, especially, the tim' at the end. that, and thank you for your cooperation and support.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, this is a change in the order of the words and the proposed change is:
in writing. the eu's financial aid to palestine, as proposed in the report, is moving in the same direction as its invasive imperialist policy in the wider region. it is the other side of the policy of freezing aid to the palestinian people as punishment for having elected through democratic and unalterable elections a government that was not to the eu's liking. it is now proposed that financial aid be restored to the "new government" appointed by president abbas, which he approves. the eu imperialists, in close cooperation with the usa and israel, in the framework of the project for the "new middle east", are exploiting the tragedy of the palestinian people that they themselves have created. they are using financial aid as a means of pressure and brute blackmail, as a tool for intervening in the intra-palestinian conflict. in fact, they are adding fuel to the fire to fuel the conflict and divisions, to crush the heroic resistance of the palestinian people and the other peoples of the region and to enforce their criminal plans. the committee is opposed to the use of this aid as a mechanism for imperialist intervention and therefore votes against the report. it expresses its solidarity with and calls for the unconditional provision of humanitarian and economic aid to the palestinian people, the end of the barbaric israeli occupation and the establishment of an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital.
in writing. the directive on the exchange of criminal records information is another blow to the rights of eu citizens to privacy and the protection of their personal data. it provides for the transfer of information from the criminal record not only to eu member states but also to third countries, and not only about criminal proceedings brought against an individual but for any purpose! the directive does not contain any substantive measure to protect personal data relating to such information. it is a clear violation of the national laws of the member states and of our country, as well as of international conventions which provide that information on a person's criminal convictions is strictly confidential and may only be transmitted in the context of criminal proceedings against him or in very specific cases specifically and restrictively provided for by law. in this way it is further promoting the reactionary harmonisation of the member states' criminal systems, with the ultimate aim of creating a single criminal law in the eu, which will restrict and abolish fundamental individual rights and political freedoms, while removing from the member states one of the crucial elements underpinning their national sovereignty.
in writing. the kke abstained from voting on the joint resolution of the political groups (people's party, socialist party, liberals, group of the nations and european left) on the establishment of common international rules on the import, export and transport of conventional weapons because it considers it an unthinkable hypocrisy at a time when military spending has increased by 37% worldwide, with eu countries, from 1997 to 2006. france, britain, germany are in the top five of conventional arms exports, no mention of it. • the it is naïve, to say the least, to ask for 'rules' from multinational arms companies responsible for the trafficking and trade in conventional weapons, including in organized crime, which is also the domain of their international markets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. • the we do not subscribe to parties and political groups which support the development of the arms industry, whose governments in the past and today have armed and equipped reactionary regimes, paramilitary and militant organizations and who try to present themselves as the archangels of international norms and disarmament. • the we do not advocate creating illusions in the people that the imperialists and their corporations will accept "just rules". the arms exports and trade are for them a matter of political interests and profit.
in writing. the report promotes the implementation of a more aggressive foreign policy, by peoples and countries, and a more authoritarian and repressive policy within the eu. 1. calls for the formal and de facto dead euro-constitution to be put into effect, so that it can be further shielded by the application of reactionary, anti-democratic laws in the name of terrorism; it is characteristic that anti-fascist demonstrations in the baltic states are characterized as "violent radical tendencies in russian minorities". • to make the mechanisms for repression at european level more effective. • to use all political aspects (military, economic, political) to exert brutal blackmail for the subjugation of peoples and countries. • strengthen cooperation with the united states. • to limit any differentiation of member states with the 'eu one voice' position the second. in the field of international relations and trade, it adopts the american recipe of exporting domestic law and turning it into international law, imposing unacceptable clauses of 'democracy', 'terrorism', 'human rights' - even in trade transactions - and subverting basic principles of international law. it has set itself up as an examiner of human rights and democracy, trying to institutionalize the principle that 'whoever is not with me', that is to say, who does not accept capitalism, is an opponent. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia, and has called for the immediate release of the political prisoners.
in writing. the report reflects and highlights the eu's hostile policy towards migrants and refugees. he avoids talking about the causes of the waves of migrants and refugees: the imperialist wars and the interventions of the eu, the us and nato, the predatory exploitation of the wealth-producing resources of countries and peoples all over the world. thousands of migrants and refugees are drowning at the eu's sea borders, held in 'concentration camps' in eu countries, in conditions that are a disgrace to human civilization. the images of the utter misery and brutal treatment of migrants and refugees that the european parliament delegation saw a few days ago in the detention centres on samos and athens are a typical example. the greek government granted asylum to 39 persons (0.84%) out of 4,624 applications. the situation is similar in the other eu member states. the report, with its measures on a european return procedure and the drawing up of a list of 'safe third countries', is in fact promoting the abolition of asylum, while its proposals for the implementation of monitoring systems and biometric databases - within the framework of the common asylum system - are treating refugees with repressive measures. it aggravates the dramatic situation of refugees in the eu, revealing in all its grandeur the inhuman and barbaric nature of this imperialist union and its exploitative capitalist system.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i believe that the environment should have a horizontal dimension. we must ensure that the horizontal logic of environmental policy is incorporated into the reform treaty, because environmental policy is nothing more than the sum of individual policies. it is not just one policy, it is the sum of many policies. i also believe that we must make the european union's environmental diplomacy more coherent externally and link environmental diplomacy with the common foreign policy, with international trade, with european development policy, if we are to have an impact on a global scale, because the environment knows no borders, it is a public good and as such we must protect it globally through international associations.
mr. president, i feel it is my duty to inform you of the dramatic situation of the redundant workers of the company "scrap room fragments". the original 380 employees were laid off in 1999. in 2003 the appeals board unanimously requested their professional rehabilitation. in 2006, the greek supreme court also unanimously ruled that the dismissals were invalid and abusive. despite the struggles and their judicial vindication, the remaining 200 or so dismissed still experience a sense of social injustice and economic exclusion. the greek government refuses to implement even this decision of the supreme court of the country. in the face of this unprecedented political refusal, two of the members of the race committee, francescos karakachanis and apostolos panagiotis, began a hunger strike in the heat that lasted 12 days and led them to the hospital. these people are claiming the inherent right to a decent life for themselves and their families. i would like to ask you to take initiatives to ensure the credibility of the welfare state and of social europe.
mr president, it gives me courage to speak on the subject i had decided on beforehand, your remark that the pacta sunt servanda does not need to be translated because everyone understands it. but how many of europe's young people are learning latin and ancient greek, the languages in which not only european intellectualism has been expressed from the beginning but also european spirituality? the commission's proposal for a regulation on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees' rights in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very good one. and we must reinforce them with measures and programmes so that all young people in europe have the opportunity to learn where the words they use in their own new european language come from. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. so why should young europeans not have this opportunity?
mr president, in greece this winter we had heavy snowfall which caused considerable damage to agricultural and livestock production. but the unpleasant thing is that since the first days of summer there have been unusually high temperatures throughout south-eastern europe, lasting for more than a decade and accompanied by devastating fires. in my country a large area of pelion was destroyed, as was parnitas, a major mountain in attica which has been a national park since 1961. it had a unique pine forest where we find 1100 plant species some of which are endemic, that is, they grow only in this area, as well as 23 rare species of animals threatened with extinction, including the most abundant population of red deer in the country. unfortunately, in recent years the destruction of the environment has taken on nightmarish proportions. my request: i would like to make a strong appeal to you to launch a global campaign of information, at the initiative of the european union, on the major problems facing the planet, which include, in addition to the destruction of forests worldwide, pollution and overfishing of the seas, soil pollution and air pollution. all these factors are causing ecological imbalance in nature and a decline in biodiversity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency. because in a few moments, this situation will be irreversible. we owe it to the generations to come, we owe it to our children.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would ask you to give due attention to the question of health promotion, which must be seen not only as a good and an indicator of social well-being but also as a parameter of productive investment. this approach is particularly evident in the area of prevention, which is the main focus of the programme under discussion, because prevention means reducing morbidity and therefore reducing the cost of treatment and hospital care. it is not necessary to analyse the beneficial effects of such a development on insurance institutions and, by extension, on public finances. improving the health of the population is undoubtedly a driver of progress, empowers citizens by ensuring a longer, better and more productive life, and is a prerequisite for economic prosperity. prevention leads to a reduction in the loss of working hours and to an increase in the productivity and employability of workers, two indicators which are in line with the lisbon process. prevention is therefore the key issue for a revised, efficiency-oriented health policy and a priority area for action for a union programme. this is why the european union needs its second public health programme: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. we must jointly promote a healthier lifestyle for our children with proper nutrition in a society free of tobacco, stress and generally with proper socioeconomic conditions that seriously affect health, and this is one of the aims of the programme. we must fight together to reduce morbidity and mortality from serious diseases that destroy the body and the mind, and this is one of the aims of the programme. we must recommend that the best medical practice, which is not only the most effective way of dealing with disease but also of limiting further loss of health, be made available to all, both to those in the health professions and to ordinary citizens, and this is the aim of the programme. particular importance is attached to the collection of data on microbial resistance to antibiotics, which is currently a plague on europe's hospitals. particular attention is also paid to the impact of environmental factors on health, and data collection and the development of strategies for patient mobility are of particular importance. i could go on describing one by one all the objectives of the programme. i think that this is not necessary, because we are all convinced that we must act together and at european level, while at the same time giving the member states the opportunity to increase their own effectiveness in health matters. this is the second programme, which will run from 2008 to 2013. it is better, fuller, more ambitious and characterized by a comprehensive understanding of health as well as of the means, mechanisms and practices for dealing with its problems. it will help to bring about the convergence and integration of the european union, which we must not only see in economic terms or in terms of foreign policy but also in terms of convergence in the fields of education and health, because then the fabric of stability and prosperity of european society will really be woven together. such an ambitious project, which is extremely beneficial not only for health but also for the economy of the european union, requires a financial investment which will yield a multiplier, since it will significantly reduce the burden on the health services of the member states. unfortunately, the council in december made very large cuts to the budget of the european union which, for some programmes, such as the one under discussion, were extremely painful. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the need for adequate funding of the health programme has been recognised by the council, the commission and parliament, and i believe that the arrangement we have reached through informal consultations makes it possible to provide adequate funding within the framework of the community budgetary rules. i would ask my colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments which we have agreed by consensus after informal consultations.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, as you already know, the united states and the european union concluded talks on a long-term pnr agreement. i want to use this occasion to thank the german presidency and in particular minister schäuble for his personal involvement in making this happen. the unanimous mandate given by the council of ministers has been fulfilled. the new agreement provides for a high level of data protection and important commitments on the handling of future european pnr data. several important interests had to be addressed. firstly, the fight against terrorism and serious international crime, and in parallel the right to privacy and protection of fundamental civil rights, the need for air carriers to be able to comply with diverse legal requirements at an acceptable economic cost, the wider transatlantic relationship and the true international scope of these issues. the united states has agreed on a binding international agreement and by doing so they have understood the need for legal certainty. the agreement is divided into three parts. first, an agreement signed by both parties. second, a letter which the united states sent to the eu in which it set out assurances on the way in which it will handle european pnr data in the future. and third, a letter from the eu to the united states acknowledging the receipt of assurances and confirming that on that basis it considers the level of protection afforded by the us department of homeland security to be adequate for european pnr data. in the past, the exchange of undertakings was not binding in character. it was in my personal view, but also in the view of the council, a major achievement of the new agreement. this agreement will be valid for 7 years, thus providing for a considerable period of legal certainty. there is not an extension of the time during which passenger data are kept from 3.5 to 15 years. there is an increase from 3.5 to 7 years of the time during which data are kept in an active file. the further period of 8 years that was already provided for in the previous agreements and that undertaking is not newly introduced in this new agreement. the purpose for which data will be used remains the same. the number of pnr data has been reduced from 34 to 19 as a result of rationalisation and merging. sensitive data will be filtered and made accessible only in exceptional circumstances which have been justified and will be deleted after 30 days. those air carriers not already pushing the data will go from a ‘pull’ to a ‘push’ system as soon it becomes technically feasible. it is now up to air carriers to introduce new technologies as soon as possible, but both the united states and the eu agree that this system should be a ‘push’ system and no longer a ‘pull’ system. the commissioner for justice, freedom and security and the united states secretary of homeland security will be responsible for the review system. finally, the united states has accepted a review system which was likely to be agreed at the beginning of our negotiations. protection given under the united states privacy act will be extended through administrative procedures to non-us citizens, in particular with regard to redress and correction, and, therefore, eu citizens will be entitled to protection under that act. that was not the case under the previous agreement. common efforts are needed in order to protect our societies, including our human rights, from attempts by terrorists to undermine them. the recent events in london and glasgow have shown that terrorism will stay with us for some time. that is why, as i have already announced, i will present a package in the autumn, which will include new measures – both legislative and operational – aimed at improving and increasing our capacity to cooperate at an international level against terrorism. i shall also propose that the eu member states establish a european pnr system at national level in as many member states as possible.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to congratulate you on the agreement reached with the united states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, what we have on our hands, firstly, is not a deal with the united states. it is in fact an agreement with the united states and with any other country that the united states unilaterally decides to transfer the personal data of european passengers to. secondly, it is an agreement which contains commitments only for europe and not for the usa. thirdly, even where the agreement sets some limits, those limits are so vague and so full of legal loopholes that in practice the us is allowed to do almost anything it wants. i 'm getting more specific: firstly, the agreement and the attached letter from the united states state that america will be able to pass on to any third country it wishes the information we pass on to it, without even being obliged to inform us. in practice, europe is signing a pnr agreement not only with the united states but also with any other country on earth that the united states decides to sign, countries that cannot receive european citizens' data directly from europe today, since we have not signed an agreement with them. but did your negotiating mandate from the council really contain such a mandate, that is to say, to allow the uncontrolled transfer of european data from the united states where europe itself cannot do so? secondly, while europe is explicitly saying that it is bound by the agreement, the united states is explicitly saying that it is not bound by the agreement. they are bound only by the unilateral assurances of their letter and by american laws, which, if changed, automatically bring about changes in the agreement. thirdly, as regards the provision of information to passengers about the use of their data, there is no obligation on governments to ensure that information is provided, but simply an invitation to airlines to do so. but the provision of information to the public is an express requirement of european law. why did you abandon her? fourthly, if the us violates the agreement, the european union's only option is to withdraw from it altogether. how can this be done, commissioner, when even if 26 of the 27 states consider that it has been violated and one considers that it has not been violated, the agreement cannot be abrogated at european level? fifth, the so-called legitimate purposes for using the data are uncontrollable. while at the beginning of the letter they are limited to fighting terrorism and serious crime, immediately afterwards they are allowed any use in any criminal proceedings or as otherwise required by us law that is, for almost anything. this is not an international agreement, at least not in the way that civilians understand the term. i hope that he will change these key points before he signs.
mr president, the european market does not have to be large to be effective. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national and regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the establishment of a european network of regional authorities, the european network of regional bodies, the european network of regional bodies, the european network of national networks, etc. experience shows that free competition helps in this direction and that competition, as a means of market functioning, must take account of the economic, social and territorial conditions of reality in order to have the expected positive effects. the rapporteur, mr markus ferber, has succeeded - and we thank him for this - in bringing together these parameters, which is remarkable for a subject such as the postal services, which are not just an economic activity but are linked to the tradition, the daily life of european citizens and to their perception of the efficiency of their state. i think it is important that the issue of ensuring an efficient and sustainable universal service should remain at the heart of our work, and i support the amendment tabled by mrs barsi-pataky and other colleagues, including myself, to ensure that the preparations for the implementation of free competition remain sound, so that the current directive is implemented until liberalisation and that incoming, outgoing and advertising mail is secured.
the rapporteur. i would like to stress that with its positive vote the european parliament will make a major breakthrough today: it will break a taboo that has dominated european affairs for decades! for the first time, public money, through public procurement, will be used to increase energy efficiency, which is rightly considered a key pillar of a sustainable energy policy. i would like to believe that this will be the beginning of the use of citizens' money for high priority issues. finally, i would like to thank commissioner piebalgs and the german presidency for making it possible to adopt the regulation at first reading.
in writing. the action programme proposed as a common position of the council of the eu does not seek to protect and improve public health but to manage its problems, to expand the commercialisation and privatisation of health services and finally to facilitate the entry of private business groups into this lucrative sector for capital. the state's responsibility and obligation to protect and improve public health is transferred to local government, ngos, and 'civil society', while individual responsibility is highlighted as the key factor shaping public health. the capitalist restructuring of public health is part of the eu's general anti-people policy, the deterioration of insurance conditions and the increase in workers' pension limits. we are radically opposed to the anti-worker proposals contained in the community action programme on public health. the kke is fighting for public health and welfare that will meet the modern needs of the working family.
in writing. the report fully accepts the philosophy of the proposed directive, which designates as european critical infrastructure any significant public and private infrastructure affecting more than one eu member state and obliges them to submit a list of such infrastructure to the european commission, which draws up the single list for the whole eu, in order to monitor and control their security against 'terrorist acts'. the proposal for a directive: private individuals, i.e. monopoly firms, are gaining powers over national security issues that were previously the sole responsibility of the state. the possibility of labelling as 'terrorist acts' mobilizations of the workers' and mass movements affecting any infrastructure of 'european significance', including private installations (e.g. strikes in critical sectors - energy, telecommunications, etc. - or symbolic occupations of factories, businesses, etc., the protection of strikes, mobilizations, etc.) is opened up. the national security and sovereignty of the member states is decisively undermined, since they are obliged to hand over a list of all their security-critical infrastructure and security plans to the eu. once again the pretext of the 'terrorist threat' is the eu's convenient vehicle for completing its reactionary institutional framework, which is directed against popular movements and shields the power of european capital, further undermining the national sovereignty of the member states.
mr president, european legislation and the legislation of the member states and the dialogue between the social partners are trying to modernise the legal framework which will continue to provide employers and workers of all types with legal security and social protection. the question is: are social protection and social inclusion consequences or prerequisites for achieving the objectives of economic growth, full employment and social justice? i accept the alternating role of the two pursuits as the chicken lays the egg and the egg lays the chicken. the promotion of competitiveness for economic growth and the safeguarding of workers' safety must be commonly agreed objectives from the planning to the implementation level, taking care of the necessary flexible market and of enhancing safety, which is a double challenge, so that we can speed up, as you suggest, commissioner, by playing a leading role in the open international competitive environment, without betraying values and prevailing social standards. new forms of employment with optional and voluntary acceptance facilitate the entry and retention of special groups such as young people, older workers and women. the exchange of best practices on innovative arrangements ensures work-life balance, with particular support for women and their triple duty. the needs of workers vary according to their stage of life and career prospects. but each member state has its own particularities, its own economic conditions and its own national legislation. european legislation is complementary and integrated to cross-border relations and the achievement of a single free market. we must not forget the potential of lifelong learning to tackle unemployment and we must remember that by trusting the state and social partners, by respecting human dignity, by serving social justice and avoiding conflict we will increase european competitiveness and prosperity.
mr president, the debate on the modernisation of labour law, which was held in substance and not in the shade, was an important opportunity to highlight the fundamental differences between the right and the left. the right interprets the high rates of unemployment and poverty as a result of the rigidity of labour law. it considers black labour to be almost obligatory and, to legitimize all this, it spoke of flexibility with security. and what better way than the danish model! the only way to apply it is by means of full economic, budgetary and fiscal harmonization in the member states. the report we are about to vote on, thanks to the overall opposition of the socialists, improves in many respects on the original plan, which focused on the protection of workers, which is neither a cause of unemployment nor a charitable act. it is simply one of the most important pillars of economic development and social justice. and let's not offend the reality! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the astronomical profits of shipowners and shipping monopolies on the one hand, and the intensification of work to the limit and the mass replacement of seafarers by member states with cheaper labour, with starvation wages of no more than 515 dollars a month, and the major maritime crimes, such as the erika, prestige, sea diamond and other ships, which have caused enormous environmental damage and have shocked international public opinion, are clear examples of the european union's anti-people maritime policy. it is unfounded and hypocritical for shipowners, the european commission and governments to claim that there is not enough manpower and that they are interested in attracting shipowners from the member states to the shipping industry, when they are collectively driving european shipowners out of the ships in a mass manner, with continuous reductions in the organic composition of the ships, and at the same time replacing them with cheaper shipowners from third countries, which is increasing unemployment in the sector. the negative consequences of this anti-people policy are very great for the workers, the islanders in the remote areas, in greece and in other countries.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, it is clear that europe has already expressed its views on this matter through the european union's foreign ministers: the release of kidnapped persons is a diplomatic duty for europe. the release of alan johnston was an act which we appreciated, but, of course, as you said, no one feels that they should reward hamas, which, as everyone knows, is still on the list of terrorist organisations. that said, it is clear that our main concern is that human lives are saved and that journalists can carry out their work, even in difficult areas and in areas of conflict or high risk, otherwise the mission of a journalist, which is to go where it is dangerous and report what he has seen and heard, would fail.
member of the commission. i thank mr arnaoutakis for his question concerning the aegean sea and its fisheries resources. it will be recalled that the council of ministers adopted the proposed regulation concerning management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea in late 2006. that regulation consequently entered into force in january 2007. the commission believes that the regulation represents a fair and vigorous response to the problems raised by the honourable member as far as both demersal and small pelagic species are concerned. for other highly migratory species like bluefin tuna, the community also recently adopted new legislation that will contribute to improving the conservation status of these stocks. let me underline here that establishing management measures is, however, not enough if adequate implementation and follow-up of the measures are not carried out. both member states and fishermen’s organisations have a fundamental role to play in this respect. the commission will be very attentive to ensure proper enforcement of all the measures. it is for this reason that on 2 april 2007 i wrote to the ministers of the member states concerned to assess where we stand as regards the application of the regulation a few months after its adoption. my departments will continue to monitor the situation and the implementation by the member states of the various provisions contained in that regulation. in addition to community measures that may be further complemented in the future, it is also fundamental to promote fisheries management measures in the framework of the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm), so that mediterranean countries that are not members of the european union can also contribute to the sustainability of marine living resources. active participation of member states’ scientists in the proceedings of the gfcm scientific advisory committee is an important way to achieve this. in the case of the aegean sea, it is primarily the responsibility of greece and turkey to ensure adequate scientific cooperation in order to provide sound scientific advice for fisheries management. in order to facilitate and promote further scientific cooperation in the mediterranean eastern basin, the commission, together with greece and italy, is planning to support a new fao regional project named eastmed.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his reply and i would like to point out that fishermen from the member states of the european union and from third countries are active in the aegean and in the mediterranean in general. however, greek and community fishermen in the area are subject to all the restrictions and apply the community directives, unlike fishermen in third countries, who fish without restrictions and often uncontrolled. what does the commission intend to do to provide a prompt solution to this problem?
member of the commission. yes, as i said, the commission can intervene directly with regard to the management of fisheries within community waters, in particular involving community fishers. in that regard i made reference specifically to the mediterranean regulation, which has just come into effect and we are monitoring it closely in order to see that there is proper implementation. obviously the mediterranean sea, and your part of the mediterranean sea, involves third countries with whom we have relationships. with turkey in particular there is the association relationship, and turkey is also a candidate for membership. with regard to fisheries, we try to work closely with these third countries in other fora which are responsible for the management of fisheries in the mediterranean, in particular the gfcm, which is the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean. as regards highly migratory species there is icat, which is the commission that has responsibility for blue fin tuna, in particular, and swordfish. here we are trying to work closely with third countries who are also members of these fora in order to push forward common regulatory measures. in that way we are trying to maintain and establish as level a playing field as possible. obviously it is essential that european union take the lead, and therefore in establishing our own regulatory regime for fisheries in community waters, we set the example and do our utmost to see to it that third countries with fishing rights in the mediterranean adopt similar measures through gfcm or icat so that our fishers would not be prejudiced as a result of having more stringent fishing rules for the management of the fishery.
member of the commission. coastal fishing in the mediterranean is a particularly sensitive issue, given the fact that the mediterranean fishery is somewhat more specific than fisheries one would find in the north sea, for example, which principally comprises mixed fisheries. therefore, one cannot be as selective as one would like to be and the measures that apply in the mediterranean are based more on technical measures than on setting total allowable catches and quotas. however, having said that, the mediterranean fisheries policy has introduced regulations, for the first time, that are quite tough in order to regulate mediterranean fisheries and in particular coastal fisheries. there is a requirement on the part of member states to draw up management plans for fisheries with regard to the coastal dimension and, in particular, measures relating to the types of gear used, as well as measures relating to minimum landing sizes. we are now monitoring the implementation of this regulation, as i said in my reply to the question. this was adopted just at the end of last year and came into effect at the beginning of this year. the timeframes are being introduced during the course of this year and next year. i hope that within the timeframes set in the regulation, the member states will have the necessary measures in place so that we will be able to have a much more sustainable fishery in the mediterranean, especially with regard to coastal fisheries.
i congratulate mr arnautakis on his question and i thank the commissioner for his reply. but what are the conditions for importing and marketing fish caught by fishermen from third countries in the european union? increased fishing means increased demand due to better prices. it's not just the way we fish.
member of the commission. the rules applicable to the importation of fish are regulated under the general provisions relating to wto negotiations and the wto regime. there are certain elements whereby, with regard to fisheries in particular, there is not total liberalisation and, therefore, there are certain measures to protect the community industry. however, one needs to see how the discussions will unfold during the course of this year in order to see what further liberalisation concerning imported fisheries products will occur. having said that, however, it is important to underline that we will submit measures later this year to fight illegal fishing. under these, if fish are caught by vessels operating under a third-country flag and those vessels cannot prove that the fish have been caught sustainably – in other words, within, for example, quota limits and within the parameters of the rules applicable in different regional fisheries management organisations, such as, in the case of the mediterranean, the gfcm – then those fish will be considered illegal and authorisation will not be given for them to be landed in the member state where they would have been landed. this would provide us with a very effective measure, which, i hope, will help us curtail the landing of illegally caught fish.
member of the commission. the commission not only thoroughly and strongly condemns the recruitment and the use of children in armed forces and groups, it is also actively contributing to a sustained international effort using all the available means in combating this phenomenon. and we are working actively, both at the policy level and also through our different funding instruments, to promote the rights of the child in armed conflict. there are three levels here. one is the policy level. the european union has established a particularly robust basis to work on these issues. since 2003, several important policy documents have been adopted including the eu guidelines on children and armed conflict, the eu concept for support for this disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration and the checklist for integration of the protection of children affected by armed conflict into esdp operations and, finally, the commission communication towards an eu strategy on children’s rights from 2006. now, in our political dialogues with partner countries, we regularly raise issues related to children’s rights. for example, we raised with the lebanese government the ratification of the optional protocol to the convention on the rights of the child. we also urge states that have not yet done so to ratify and fully implement the statute of the international criminal court which classifies enlisting children as a war crime. and we have been financially supporting the recent revision of the cape town principle, resulting in february of this year in the adoption of the paris principles. furthermore, we also continue to work with and actively support the un’s special representatives for children in armed conflict, unicef, ohchr, unhcr and other non-governmental bodies. secondly, we have made this issue a high priority in our assistance efforts at individual country level, for instance, with regard to projects on disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration programmes, for instance, in sudan or with regard to prevention of child recruitment in colombia or demobilisation, reintegration and prevention of recruitment of child soldiers. that has facilitated the demobilisation of more than 3000 children. finally, within the new european instrument for democracy and human rights, we have also earmarked an amount of eur 6.8 million for 2007 to 2010, aiming to protect children’s rights in armed-conflict situations.
i thank the commissioner for her reply. i would like to know what specific measures are in place to welcome such children within the european union.
member of the commission. i do not want to go into any details of what we are talking about with the libyan authorities. however, i can assure you that there is no ransom to be paid. our sole strategy from the outset has been to say that there is solidarity with the libyan people, and especially with the children that have been affected. there is also solidarity with their families. we also think it is sometimes a possibility to convert a risk or a difficult situation into a chance. the chance could be that this benghazi centre could not only be a centre for treating those children and their families, but also a centre of excellence in the future for the region, and even maybe for a part of sub-saharan africa. i can absolutely assure you there is no ransom being paid.
member of the commission. with respect to the region in question, there is one notification on the construction of a new nuclear power plant and one commitment on closure. on 27 february of this year, natsionalna elektricheska kompania (national electric company) notified the commission, under article 41 of euratom, of its investment project. the notification concerns the construction of a new third-generation vver-1000 nuclear plant in belene (bulgaria). the closure of units three and four of kozlodui nuclear power plant, as an integral part of bulgaria’s treaty of accession to the european union, is also happening. the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaties, will oversee the correct implementation of the relevant clauses of this treaty. the closure of these units should not cause major energy supply concerns. the community assistance for decommissioning, based on the treaty of accession, also covers measures consequential to the closure of the reactors in the field of replacement capacity, energy efficiency and supply actions. in addition, in the opinion of both the commission and the world bank, new base load investments are needed throughout the whole region. however, there are no particular structural problems in generation at present. the commission has consistently underlined that it is for each member state to decide whether or not to rely on nuclear power for the generation of electricity. should member states decide to invest in new nuclear power generation, the commission will exercise available powers to ensure that new investment projects meet the highest standards of safety, security and non-proliferation, as required by the euratom treaty. on the seismic issue, pursuant to article 37 of euratom, bulgaria is required to provide the commission with general data relating to the plan for the disposal of radioactive waste. this will apply to the new nuclear power plant in belene. the submission of this data is due at least six months before any discharge authorisation of radioactive effluents is granted by the bulgarian competent authorities. on the basis of this data, and after consultation of the article 31 group of experts, the commission will deliver an opinion. the latter will check whether the implementation of the plan, both in normal operation and in the event of accident, is liable to result in a radioactive contamination of the water, soil or air space of another member state. as the commission review also covers accidental scenarios, the general data to be provided by member states should contain information on the degree of seismic activity in the region, on probable maximum seismic activity and on the designed seismic resistance of the nuclear installation.
i thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, it has been 20 years since the chernobyl tragedy, with countless cases of direct or indirect slow death. neither the world health organization nor the commission has released any reliable information on this tragedy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. this study was published in the neue zürcher zeitung. does the commission have data on the probability of seismic risk analysis? we are waiting for these figures, not whether each member state is free to have nuclear energy or not.
member of the commission. the main reason for closure was doubt about safety levels. it was well debated during the whole pre-accession strategy, and a decision was taken by the bulgarian authorities based on the safety evaluation. the closure is not about supply or lack of it, but about safety. that is why i believe there is no way we can compromise on this. if it was for any other reason, such as excess of power – but it was not, it was only for safety reasons, recognised by bulgarian authorities when they subscribed to the treaty. moreover, this treaty has been ratified in all the member states, meaning that not only have the governments that signed it made an obligation, but this obligation has been endorsed by the citizens of all other member states. in my opinion there is no new data that would allow us to come back to this decision.
member of the commission. the existing eu legislation leaves it up to member states to decide the system of stock maintenance. the eu legislation imposes certain obligations on stock levels. it does impose requirements on internal arrangements to keep those stocks apart from some general conditions which apply to stockholding arrangements such as the principles of fairness, non-discrimination and transparency. on the basis of the information provided by the greek authorities, the european commission considers for the time being that there is no evidence to justify an infringement procedure in relation to the stockholding arrangements undertaken in relation to the directive. taking the above into consideration, the commission will continue to monitor regularly the level of stocks held in greece in order to ensure levels required by eu legislation. at the same time, the european commission would like to point out that in 2001 the european court of justice decided that a stockholding arrangement in greece, not regulated by the above-mentioned directive, breached article 28 of the european community treaty on the free movement of goods. the case was closed after the commission was informed that the greek authorities complied with the judgement of the court of justice. however, if there are new elements which would amount to a breach of article 28, such as banning or inhibiting imported goods, the european commission would examine this new detailed information.
the new elements, commissioner, are the proposals of the greek competition commission itself, which says that the current high levels of stocks imposed by the legislation in force in practice prohibit imports of finished products and facilitate oligopolistic situations, as two oil refining companies dominate in greece. greece has one of the highest pre-tax fuel prices in the european union. the question is: will you intervene with the greek authorities to implement the proposals of the greek competition commission or do you prefer the role of pontius pilate ?
member of the commission. mr president, let me say straight away in response to mr markov that i am grateful to him for acknowledging the increased flow of information that comes from the commission to his committee and the stronger cooperation that he has seen. as far as china is concerned, the eu side has as its objective in the prospective partnership and cooperation agreement to lay the foundation for enhanced cooperation, including enforcement and, where possible, the upgrading of environmental – including climate change mitigation – social, labour and safety standards, so we are on the same wavelength on that. i welcome this opportunity to give this house some feedback on recent developments in bilateral trade relations with china. china has been a top priority since i took office. we have a lot to gain, but also some things to lose, depending on how we conduct this important relationship. i chose the european parliament last october to present, together with commissioner ferrero-waldner, the commission’s china strategy paper – ‘closer partners, growing responsibilities’ – and, more specifically on trade and investment, the policy paper entitled ‘competition and partnership’. i argued in that policy paper that europe benefits from an open and balanced economic relationship with china based on fair reciprocity. that fundamental argument still holds good today. our economies are complementary: china has strong competitive advantages in many areas; we have an enduring competitive advantage in high value-added services and goods, especially ones that require strong intellectual property right (ipr) protection. however, we have not yet achieved the balance in our relationship that will guarantee that it can be sustained to our mutual benefit. europe’s trade deficit with china is indeed growing. i accept that part of this deficit may be the natural result of market forces, but we also know that our export potential is being hampered by barriers in the chinese market and that an important part of the current trade balance is consequently artificial. it is a product of politics, not economics; it can be addressed by politics. a recent study has even put a number on the cost of china’s barriers to our trade at about eur 20 billion annually in lost exports, that is 30% of our exports to china. china must take practical steps to address the problem. so what is the eu looking for? well, we want improved access to china’s goods and services markets and, for eu investors, a sea change in protection of intellectual property rights and copyrights, especially by cleaning up the huge street markets that sell counterfeit products and by ensuring chinese companies pay royalties due to eu companies when using their technology. we want an ambitious approach to negotiations to update the 1985 trade and economic cooperation agreement between the eu and china. this has to be a genuinely high-standard agreement that addresses long-term concerns, and we want assurances that the drive for growth and the lack of domestic market signals in china will not lead to over-production and dumping, especially in key products like steel. the fundamental case for a positive trade relationship with china remains correct, but we are at something of a crossroads in our trade relations with china. a policy of dialogue to address the problems we have is credible only if it delivers more than the alternative means of trying to force change. the policy of dialogue and engagement can be challenged. it will be challenged if things do not improve between us and if people cannot see tangible, deliverable, practical improvements and benefits as a result of that policy of dialogue and engagement. so let me repeat: openness to china is in europe’s interests, but it is sustainable only if we can show that eu products and services are just as welcome in china as chinese goods are in europe. that is why china needs to reciprocate by strengthening its commitment to economic openness and market reform behind its own borders. i have made this case openly and frankly to the chinese authorities, most recently with commerce minister bo xilai in our recent eu-china joint committee meeting in brussels on 12 june. at that meeting, the chinese leadership recognised for the first time that the current trend of the trade imbalance between china and the eu is simply not sustainable. i was able to agree with bo xilai to set up a high-level group that will explore ways to address this issue. i am looking forward to the initial report of this group at the next eu-china summit in november, and i expect it to identify some first tangible and practical steps to address this shared challenge, notably in ensuring higher chinese imports from the eu. i agreed with minister bo xilai on 12 specific points that address eu companies’ concerns regarding their access to the chinese market. one of these was the agreement on terms of reference for the upgrading of our 1985 trade pact. this was an important step forward, as i had withheld our commitment until i felt the terms of reference were right from our point of view. it is important to stress that the partnership and cooperation agreement of which our trade discussions are forming part will encompass the full scope of the eu-china bilateral relationship, including enhanced cooperation in political matters. the pca will contain a standard clause on human rights. the clause will cover all issues related to democratic principles and fundamental human rights. as i have already said, one of our objectives in the pca is to lay the foundation for enhanced cooperation on matters to do with environment, social, labour and safety standards. on the trade side, the agreement will cover important issues for both sides such as ipr, investment, non-tariff trade barriers, capital movements, sustainable trade, and natural resources and competition. these negotiations are an important tool to try to rebalance our trade relations and create opportunities for eu business operators. however, this is not a preferential agreement, and tariffs will, therefore, not be discussed. in parallel, the european commission will continue to monitor closely china’s implementation of its wto accession obligations. this will remain a central priority for the commission in the years to come. china’s non-accession to the wto government procurement agreement leaves important chinese markets closed, and china needs to honour its commitment to open negotiations on accession to this agreement in 2008. the commission will also launch a comprehensive review of market openness in china and china’s implementation of its wto commitments later this year. ipr was another focus of my talks last month with minister bo xilai. cooperation and dialogue on ipr issues are not an end in themselves. they have to produce real change. talk is not enough. that is why the commission has made it clear to china that the cooperative approach we are presently favouring must produce tangible results. the next meeting of the eu-china ip working group should be held in the coming month. if significant progress is not made in the short-term on key issues for the eu, such as fake markets and payment of royalties, we will have to reconsider our approach with china in the ipr area. the commission does not exclude using the dispute settlement mechanism of the wto. in addition, the commission is working actively to stop chinese exports of fakes from entering the community, most notably through strengthened customs actions at eu borders. i believe this must become a higher priority for the eu as a whole. europe can cope with tough competition, but it needs to be fair competition. this means that we have to ensure that we are acting on a level playing field, rejecting anti-competitive trading practices and standing ready to apply our trade defence instruments against dumping and illegal subsidies, as well as stepping up the fight against counterfeiting. i should also like to share with you key elements of our updated assessment of china’s request for market economy status. this issue is important in the context of the eu’s application of its trade defence instruments when faced with allegations of unfair dumping in europe by chinese exports. the updated assessment reflects the significant and welcome steps of china towards becoming a market economy. progress was recorded across the board and brought china closer to fulfilling the four outstanding market economy status (mes) criteria. in particular, we think that the adoption of a number of important laws deserves recognition – the bankruptcy law, the new property rights law and the new accounting standards. however, the updated assessment also makes clear that still further progress is needed. none of the four outstanding criteria has been fully met. in particular, proper implementation of the new pieces of legislation will be crucial. it is not enough to pass new laws. they, as i believe china’s state authorities understand, must also be used and respected. we will review the situation again in 12 months and continue technical talks in the meanwhile. i value the views of this house very highly and i am committed to providing early and clear information to you. where possible and appropriate, this has been done in writing, for instance the mes assessment has been transmitted to the committee on international trade. on other occasions, it may be more appropriate to provide information orally because of its sensitivity. this is fully in line with article 19 of the framework agreement. what matters is that i will continue to keep parliament fully informed. to summarise my approach, i believe in a balanced partnership between the european union and china based on fair reciprocity, a partnership whose core task is to open markets to fair trade for the benefit of europe, china and the wider world. i believe the eu has been playing its part in delivering that partnership. it is right that we insist that china should play its full part as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner mandelson is not only an inspired buyer but also a tireless negotiator. six years after china's accession to the wto, the balance of bilateral trade between the european union and china remains a challenge. china fully enjoys the benefits of open markets, but does not itself fully comply with its obligations under multilateral rules and disciplines. the chinese markets remain largely closed and opaque. there are high barriers to entry, which are estimated to result in lost profits for european businesses of €20 billion per year. the protection of intellectual property is inadequate. it is sufficient to mention that in 2006 80% of counterfeit products seized at the union border were of chinese origin. the commission preferred the continuation of the bilateral dialogue with china on intellectual property issues to the eu/us coordinated action which activated the wto dispute settlement mechanism against china. dialogue is the way to go. but we expect practical results from this dialogue. in any event, dialogue does not exclude the use of other legal means. in the textiles and clothing sector, every effort should be made to ensure the smooth development of trade flows after the expiry of the shanghai agreement in 2008. as regards footwear of chinese origin, the commission is invited to monitor imports closely in order to avoid the risk of circumvention by china of the already inadequate trade defence measures adopted by the union. china, as a trade policy power, represents a threat as well as an opportunity. what we must oppose is the competitive advantage that china has as a result of prohibitive import barriers, unfair competition, economic, ecological and social dumping. the liberalization of trade, which we wholeheartedly support, should be based on reciprocity and accompanied by equivalent institutional compensatory measures.
today we don't recognize you. you're a little slow!
in writing. the report on the european parliament's opinion on the convening and content of the intergovernmental conference goes even further than this reactionary agreement of the eu council on the 'reform treaty', as the newly revived worst version of the 'euro-constitution' has been dubbed. the european parliament, the council and the commission have agreed to the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. in addition to the council, they are calling for even more far-reaching reactionary changes, such as the institution of a community constitutional order that would establish the primacy of community law over the national laws of the member states, a greater strengthening of the sovereignty of the supranational structure of the eu, to which almost all the sovereign rights of the member states would be assigned. at the same time, these forces have all rejected the proposal to submit the new treaty to the approval of the peoples of europe by means of referendums in the member states. they thus demonstrate their utter disregard for the will of the european peoples, and particularly those who have rejected the 'euro-constitution' through their referendums, their real fear of the peoples and the use of the european parliament as an instrument of pseudo-democratic legitimacy for all the anti-people and reactionary policies of the eu.
in writing. i voted against the ferber report because it reinforces the doctrinaire neoliberal approach to a nerve-wracking public interest sector, the postal services. the european commission has steadfastly stuck to its original proposals, despite the strong reactions of ten historical universal service providers - including the greek post office - the complaints of thousands of citizens and the warnings of the european trade union confederation and the federation of postal workers. at the same time, the necessary studies on the effects of market liberalisation have not yet been completed in all 27 member states. with the hasty opening up of the market and the virtual abolition of the 'universal service principle', it is mathematically certain that thousands of jobs will be lost and at the same time, citizens' access to quality and cheap postal services will be restricted. the consequences will be even more significant for residents of remote and inaccessible, mountainous or island areas, whose services will not be beneficial to businesses. the delay in the entry into force of the new directive is of little consequence, because it merely postpones the negative effects for two years. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. the demand for the liberalization of postal services with the 'that's the way i want it' creates more problems than solutions.
in writing. the european parliament's decision today to liberalize the postal services by the epp meps, the social democrats, the liberals and other political forces is a major blow to workers in the sector and to the industry in general. the proposal opens the way for the infrastructure and the public postal services sector as a whole to be sold off to business groups to increase their profits. the argument that prices should be reduced through competition is a myth, because with the proposed arrangements for abolishing the single tariff, but also the conditions for maintaining the universal postal service, we will have an increase in prices and a degradation of the postal services provided. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the constitutionally guaranteed secrecy of communications is called into question, since mail is handled by private individuals, without any guarantee and with minimal possibilities of controlling the secrecy of correspondence and the protection of personal data. the postal service is a social good. the committee voted against the proposal to liberalize postal services.
in writing. i refused to vote in favour of the protašević report on flexicurity, as did the whole of the left euro group, because in the name of flexibility in industrial relations it weakens the protection of stable employment and the safety of workers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the name of competitiveness and profit for enterprises, redundancies will now be made easier and 'free' for enterprises and the cost of protecting young unemployed will be passed on to society as a whole. the responsibility of firms towards the worker is transformed into the responsibility of society towards the unemployed. collective bargaining and the role of trade unions are drastically weakened under the new model. individual contracts tend to become the norm, given the power of the employer, who can dismiss them very easily without justification, and the possibility of trade union organisation is radically weakened. the european left, in cooperation with the trade unions, is calling for the coverage of all workers, irrespective of the contract under which they are employed, in its proposals both to the employment committee and to the house. it argues that the right to collective action is an important part of labour law. member states are called upon to promote stable, regular employment and to ensure and improve workers' rights, the quality of employment and a high level of social protection.
in writing. the report is the product of yet another political compromise by the now well-known coalition of political representatives of the european bourgeoisie - the christian democrats (epp), social democrats and liberals - and is moving in a totally reactionary, anti-worker direction. the report: it considers that reactionary reforms of labour law are necessary to help achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. it declares that safety during the working life of workers is more important to them than the protection of jobs! it accepts and recognises the need for flexible working time arrangements to meet the 'needs of workers and employers'. it promotes the concept of class cooperation of the 'social partners' in the name of improving the competitiveness of enterprises. it seeks to transform collective agreements from a tool for defending the interests of the working class into a "tool for promoting" "social partnership". the report supports the central logic of so-called 'wellbeing', the basic philosophy and aims of the green paper. the committee of the regions votes against the report and condemns the dangerous attempt by the political representatives of the monopolies, which is being promoted at the expense of the working class and workers in general.
in writing. directive 96/71/ec on the 'displacement of workers in the provision of services' and the european commission communications (com ((2006) 0159) of 4 april 2006 and com ((2007) 0304) of 13 june 2007) are used by monopolies in the context of eu anti-union policy and by governments in the member states to undermine collective agreements and, more generally, workers' wage and social rights in order to maximise capital gains. we believe that the proposals in the resolution on the posting of workers not only do not stop this anti-people policy but are exploited by the monopolies to extend the 'lack of pay for equal work' by posting workers. the european parliament's group of the european people's party therefore votes against the resolution on the posting of workers.
president of the eurogroup. madam president, i am speaking at the end of the debate to make a few remarks on what has been said, or not said. i shall first refer to wage policies, since this is a subject which concerns me and continues to concern me. i remain convinced that if the present policies are continued, i.e. those which are designed to widen the gap between those who work and those who claim to provide work, we are headed for disaster. europeans, especially the simple and modest europeans, who are no less intelligent than others, no longer understand this gap which is widening every day between those who have and those who aspire to have. (applause) i would like to thank i think that many of us are saying this, including the president of the central bank, who recently signed up in falsehood against these ever-widening gaps. i think we should stick to the principle of wage moderation. i believe that the explanation for wage moderation is simple: as long as wages are adjusted in line with productivity gains, wage moderation leads neither to a loss of competitiveness nor to excess inflation. if, on the other hand, wages were to deviate from the path laid out for them by the evolution of productivity, we could have, and we would certainly have, a problem. i think we need to think of a modern way of letting as many people as possible share in the fruits of growth. it's not all nominal wage increases. we must think about the possible forms of participation of employees, we must think about forms of interest, we must think about other forms of wage formation which could enable the greatest number of people to share in the fruits of economic growth, which, moreover, should not be vilified or criticized in principle, as some tend to do, but which should be seen as an instrument allowing the euro zone and the european union to increase their participation rate in the labour markets and, therefore, to reduce their unemployment rate compared to what we are experiencing at present. we want growth because we want jobs; we do not want growth to be an end in itself. as regards the free movement of workers within the euro area, i say - and i say this with the president of the central bank, so you can see how complete our harmony is - that there is a contradiction between being part of the same monetary area and not fully participating in the four freedoms. i therefore agree with those who say that slovenian workers, for example, should be able to move freely within the euro area. but you will not find in the treaty or in the accession arrangements any provisions which would allow us to say: yes, slovenian workers must be able to move within the territory of the 12 members of the euro zone and not within the territory of the others, just as you will not find any provisions which would allow us to say: no, czech workers, slovak workers, polish workers cannot move, only those who are members of the euro zone are allowed to do so. i did not write all the passages of the treaty, not even the smallest part of the treaty, but you do not escape the heaviness that sometimes lies in all these texts. so this is a debate that we need to have, but we need to know that we cannot solve the issue at the level of the eurozone alone; i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. there was a lot of talk about what i called "our guest of the evening" last monday at the eurogroup. it is also, mr hamon, an expression which comes to me from an elysian era which does not quite correspond to that of today, since others, before the president of the eurogroup, were accustomed to receiving evening visitors. it's more of a phenomenon of the 1980s in france. in europe, the phenomenon is rather new and we shall see whether this is the beginning of a great tradition or whether it will be reduced to the epiphenomenon that it was. that said, i would like to recall briefly some of the commitments made by france. first, france is not ending fiscal consolidation, france is not initiating a pause in its financial consolidation effort. two, the 2008 deficit, ... (speaking to mr. goebbels who is questioning him)... yes, mr. goebbels, we'll see. i am not responsible for french budgetary policy, so we shall see... finally, i want to tell you, my dear friend goebbels, that if french public finances could enjoy the same health as the finances of the country for which i am responsible, we would not have this debate, and we would not have had a visit on monday night. (laughter) that said, france's commitment is complete, and france will do everything to achieve a safe harbour in 2010, as we all committed ourselves to in april of this year. france is not the only country having problems getting there on time. we will analyse with the same severity, with the same tenacity, the results of the other countries which may not be able to meet the deadline in the right conditions at the right time, but the eurogroup expects all eurogroup member states to reach their medium-term objective by 2010 at the latest. as for france, it will send us an updated stability programme in september so that the commission and the eurogroup can together see whether the structural reforms undertaken by the french government will be able to achieve the desired result, i.e. a renewed vitality of french growth and the guarantee of the sustainability of french public finances in the longer term. i am quoting the stability pact as amended. as regards the enlargement of the euro area, and regardless of the debate on the criteria for membership, i would like to reiterate to parliament that the euro area and the eurogroup are neither a zone nor a closed club. all member states that meet the criteria for membership not only can join the euro area, but must do so. and no member of the euro area, state or politician, can reject an application to join the euro area. the treaties are clear on this point. we can of course discuss this, and we will probably do so, but then we must discuss it in depth, without sparing the substantive questions, such as: should the criteria be based on a nominal reading, as the treaties ask us to do, or should we instead consider real convergence? i have already warned the new member states - an expression i still hate - against the notion of real convergence. the member states, the so-called new member states, have nothing to gain in fact if we resort to analyses based on real convergence rather than nominal reading, but that is a debate we may have in the coming months. i did not quite understand the question put to me at the end of my friend robert goebbels' speech when he asked me about the charter of fundamental rights in europe. i do not see the connection with the debate we are having at the moment, unless it is to suggest that the united kingdom has no more reason to ask for an opt-out on the charter of fundamental rights than it has to insist on having an opt-out on monetary matters at all costs. i am of the opinion that the united kingdom will one day see the declaration of fundamental rights applied on its territory - because there will come a time when it will want to do so - because we cannot forever escape common sense - until we see the single currency applied. the virtuous intersection between the declaration of fundamental rights and the council of europe's declaration on the same subject will then provide a solution which, by combining these two sources of law, will enable the european court of justice to ensure that, on this point as on others, praetorian law will have shown that it is sometimes ahead of reality which is shaped by those who want more of europe and those who, unfortunately, want less. the european parliament's main contribution to our debates is, as a rule, to be on the side of those who want more europe. we have nothing to gain by wanting less europe every day, or by selling the europe we have by making apartments available to those who would undo a work which has been growing and impressing the world ever since we began to build it. (applause) i would like to thank
ecb chairman. madam president, i have five points to make in response to the question. first of all, i should like to say again that the reports by mr rosati and mr mitchell were very impressive and full of very important ideas and recommendations. first, on mr schwab’s remarks: it is clear that there is a question of institutional philosophy. there are 13 exemplary political democracies in the euro area, and next january there will be 15. in the future, there may be 25 or even more. it is inconceivable that changes would occur three or four times a year because of changes brought about by the normal functioning of our democracy. clearly, commitments made within the eurogroup are either kept or they are not. if they are not kept, then it is impossible to have a eurogroup which has authority – which, i am sure, is the wish and the will of all the countries concerned. my second point concerns jobs. figures are figures. i regularly hear that the euro is not designed to create jobs, that we have a problem with growth and jobs and so forth. the euro was created on the basis of a philosophy that is shared the world over: that price stability, and credibility in ensuring price stability, are prerequisites for sustainable growth and job creation. that is the decision that europeans have taken, but they are in good company, because it is a consensus. what are the figures? more than 12 million jobs have been created since the euro was set up – more than 12 million; two million, as the rapporteur said very eloquently a moment ago, were created in 2006. since the euro was launched, we have created more jobs even than the us. we have the lowest unemployment rate for 25 years. we are not satisfied, and we are right not to be satisfied, because we have to do much better. however, let it not be said that the euro is playing against job creation – it is not true, and we can prove it. as regards the obsession we might have with price stability, i have already said that price stability is a prerequisite for sustainable growth and sustainable job creation. let me also say that this sentiment is fully shared by our fellow citizens. all the surveys show that they are fully in favour, by an incredible margin, of price stability, and that they are not necessarily fully satisfied with the present situation; they are encouraging us to be as credible as possible. if, today, we have a 50-year rate of 4.67% and a 30-year rate of 4.65% (the 50-year rate applies to france, where bonds are issued for 50 years, and the 30-year rate to germany), these figures are still much lower than the 10-year rate in the united states. why are they so low? because we are credible – on ensuring price stability over 30 years and, even, over 50 years. that is the contribution our credibility makes in europe. let me mention the exchange issue, which is very important. firstly, the rules are clear – they are set out in the treaty. they are exactly the same as the rules in operation in germany since the foundation of the bundesbank after the second world war. they are exactly the same as those used under the french system introduced in january 1994, when the banque de france became independent, as called for by the treaty of maastricht and agreed unanimously by the french left and right, who decided, as mr goebbels said, to change the constitution of the fifth republic to make the central bank independent. so, the rules are clear. they are the same as in a number of countries. in practice, as has been said here very eloquently by an honourable member, this means that we are in a floating exchange rate system, and we have a forum to discuss those matters: the g7. to my knowledge, jean-claude juncker and i signed the g7 statement, together with our us partners – the federal reserve as well as the secretary of the treasury – with our japanese partners and with our other partners, the uk and canada. this is how we have discussed matters since the establishment of the floating exchange rate system. that is not to say that the situation is easy or very nice, but let us be as responsible as possible in the present circumstances and let us be sure that we have this dialogue – between ourselves, certainly, and with our partners. it is inconceivable that we could do things that would be contradictory to our partners’ wishes. it will not work. madam president, i do not want to bore you by restating what we have said, but together we are saying to china that we are not satisfied with the present situation. we are, certainly, echoing what has been said by our japanese friend, that the markets are not fully recognising their present fundamentals, and, as regards the united states, we said together that we noted that the secretary of the treasury and the monetary authority had said that a strong dollar vis-à-vis the euro was in their interests. i shall not say anything else on that point, but we have to know exactly what the situation is. i come now to the last point, which is also an important one: independence. i noted with great attention the fact that all governments in europe have said that they would fully respect the independence of the central bank. jean-claude juncker, on behalf of the eurogroup, said that a moment ago. independence is in the treaty and is the absolute key for credibility. how could we be credible over the next 50 years if we were not deemed independent by all those who are taking decisions – here in europe, in new york, in tokyo, in singapore, in hong kong and elsewhere? they trust us because we are independent, but independence is not only based upon full respect of the treaty by our partners, the executive branches, it also depends on us. i wanted to say, on behalf of the governing council – if i could i would say it in several languages to make sure i was well understood! – je préserverai, avec la plus grande fermeté, l'indépendance de la bce en toute circonstance. mes dix-huit collègues et moi-même entendons respecter strictement le traité sur ce point, comme sur tous les autres. le traité, tout le traité, rien que le traité. als präsident wahre ich mit größter entschlossenheit die unabhängigkeit der ezb unter allen umständen. meine 18 kollegen und ich beabsichtigen, den vertrag strikt einzuhalten, den vertrag, den gesamten vertrag, und nur den vertrag.
member of the commission. madam president, very briefly, to conclude this debate, which i think has been very interesting, i would like to make a comment on the implementation of the stability and growth pact, because in this debate - as in many others we have had already inside and outside this parliament - there are those who are asking the commission and the council - in particular the commission - and rightly so, in addition - for firmness in the implementation of the pact. and i totally agree. the commission and i have tried to propose to the council that the pact be implemented as it is, as it has been agreed. so, without exceptions, without breaking the rules, a firm application, which does not mean a rigid application. there were bad experiences when firmness was confused with rigidity. firmness does not mean rigidity. firmness means rigour, and rigour, when faced with different and difficult situations, requires combining firmness with flexibility if the results of budgetary discipline, which is a necessary condition for economic growth, are to be obtained. the second point i would like to make is this: some of the honourable members have referred to other tasks we have to do to sustain growth and to prolong growth and employment. we have to continue to develop the internal market and there will be a debate before the end of this year on this. the commission has undertaken to present to the council an analysis of the functioning of the internal market and how we believe it should continue to develop. it is an important debate which will continue debates such as those held in this parliament and in the council on the services directive, which we now have to see how it is implemented, which is a debate which links up with the growing integration of financial services, which is a key issue to improve the functioning of the euro area in particular. we must continue to talk about the lisbon strategy and we will discuss in the coming months the revision of the integrated guidelines, the broad economic policy guidelines, the employment guidelines. structural reforms in the framework of the lisbon strategy are beginning to bear fruit. the good results, the magnificent results in terms of employment just mentioned by the president of the european central bank, would not be explainable without the labour market reforms which have been included in the framework of the lisbon strategy, just as i do not think they will be able to explain in the future - although we do not yet have all the analytical elements in our hands - some of the productivity improvements which are taking place in these last few quarters without linking them not only to the economic cycle but also to some reforms in the product markets, in the service markets, to some processes of modernisation in the functioning of very important sectors of our economy, or without the application, again, firm, rigorous, but not blind, of the competition rules which the commission has to watch very closely. my last comment, which has been mentioned on several occasions and to which jean-claude juncker has already replied, is the question of wages. i have mentioned it on several occasions here in parliament and in discussions outside it. i fully agree with the position expressed by jean-claude juncker. wages must evolve in line with productivity. as far as there are improvements in productivity, these improvements should be reflected in wage developments. you cannot recommend negotiating wages in line with productivity when productivity is not growing and forget about that recommendation when productivity is increasing. but my impression is that at the same time we cannot forget the need to moderate wage developments, not to lose competitiveness or, in the case of the euro area, to analyse very seriously the reasons and alternatives to the divergent development of unit labour costs between euro area member states which may end up creating major operating problems for countries which are losing competitiveness through this route. i therefore suggest that we widen this debate a little further. let us not just look at wages but let us talk about the evolution of inequalities because - and this is linked to the last point i want to make in this debate - the perception of the euro is an important part of the perception that citizens have of europe, of the european idea. the perception of the euro is certainly affected by the perception that citizens have of economic developments, and we must tell them the truth: when the economy is bad, we must tell them, but when the economy is better, we must also tell them. we must not forget that now that the economy is improving, we must also pass on these improvements to citizens who, perhaps, are not able to perceive the whole of the evolution of our economies through their individual economic situation. but in this perception of the economic situation, of the effect of european integration, of monetary and economic integration on individual economies, there are also factors of uncertainty about the future, factors of uncertainty about the future of social protection systems, of uncertainty about the consequences of globalisation and the ageing of the population, and we must respond to these uncertainties without jeopardising the foundations, the bases of the economic and monetary union that we have been analysing today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 12 july.
the agenda includes statements by the council and the commission on palestine.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. that is beyond question! but there are certain issues that must not be underestimated. the council and the commission have underestimated them. the rapporteur did, however, mention the relations between macedonia and greece. greece cannot but be opposed to this country as long as this country claims redemptive rights. and in their constitution, they claim territory. in their schoolbooks today they teach that greece owns the territories of fyrom. do you realize what this means ? if you incite this very insolence tomorrow, it's like putting a powder magazine back in the balkans. fyrom must understand that all this, the claim of another country's history, a name that does not belong to them was "vardaska" until 1945 puts the region in great danger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr meijer, for the cooperation we have had throughout this period in formulating certain amendments. i am not opposed to the european perspective and the european path of macedonia. but precisely because of this european perspective and path, macedonia should not forget that the status of a candidate country creates not only rights but also obligations, one of which is good neighbourly relations and the need to find mutually acceptable solutions to existing issues with neighbouring countries, as is also provided for in the salzburg declaration and of course in the stability and association framework. it should also be borne in mind that as regards the name issue it is clear that negotiations under the auspices of the united nations must be resumed and that macedonia must approach these negotiations in good faith, with good will and in a constructive spirit. this is the position of the international community. it should also not be forgotten that recent developments on the part of macedonia, such as the renaming of the airport to 'alexander the great' and a recent statement by the minister of transport of macedonia that whatever happens will not change this name, are contrary to the letter and spirit of the 1995 interim agreement, which is based on the principle of good neighbourly relations. these behaviors must stop. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. there are some, such as those aimed at improving paragraphs on passports, which must be voted on, while others, which have to do with air traffic, such as amendment no 12, ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, we have consistently supported the european perspective of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and have contributed to its economic reconstruction and the democratization of its institutions. greece in particular has in recent years, and since the signing of the interim agreement, been the country with the most significant economic and investment presence in skopje and has contributed to the creation of thousands of jobs. at the same time, we have worked realistically to find a mutually acceptable solution to the name issue. the name issue is not a bilateral matter between greece and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the framework for the settlement has been established by the un security council resolutions, the interim agreement and the relevant european union decisions. those who have rushed to recognise the former yugoslav republic of macedonia under its constitutional name in violation of the un and eu institutional framework are doing a disservice to the effort to find an honest compromise solution for the international name (i stress this) and are fuelling the intolerance and nationalist climate in the political leadership of our neighbouring country. we agree that this impasse must be broken.
i'm the editor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. the union has played a key role in the negotiation of the wto agreement under discussion. it is among the few member states to have adopted implementing internal legislation. we are aware, of course, that the mechanism has not been used up to now. the doubts as to the effectiveness of the mechanism provided for in the protocol to the trips agreement are reasonable. but the amendment of the trips agreement was the result of long and arduous negotiations within the wto. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union is invited to make this mechanism operational by all means at its disposal. it should also encourage the transfer of know-how and technology and research to developing countries. mandatory permits are only one aspect of the problems related to public health in developing countries. in parallel, measures are needed to improve health care systems and infrastructure. targeted union development assistance can play an important role in this regard. i would also like to stress the importance of safeguards against trade diversion. the medicines should reach and remain with the populations of the countries for which this mechanism has been set up. i believe that the european union should accept the amendment to the trips agreement as soon as possible. in conclusion, i would say that a holistic approach is required, which includes both prevention and treatment. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
acting president of the council. first of all, i should like to thank the honourable member for his very kind words and for wishing the portuguese presidency good luck. i would like to tell you that this is an important matter for the portuguese presidency and, i would say, a priority. in his presentation this morning in this parliament of the priorities for the six months of the portuguese presidency, the portuguese prime minister had the opportunity to stress that the issues relating to the fight against illegal immigration are a priority for the portuguese presidency and that we will concentrate great efforts and attention on them, always, however, within the framework of a humanitarian perspective of the issue, which is fundamental for us. the last european council, as you know, has already taken some steps in this respect. we could obviously always do more and perhaps we should do more. however, i would reiterate that the issues connected with this matter are a priority for us. they are very much underlined in the programme of priorities of the portuguese presidency, so the honourable member can be sure that we will do our utmost to meet the concerns he has expressed here, which are justified concerns.
acting president of the council. the honourable member raises an issue which is highly relevant in the context of the changes taking place in the european labour market in the light of the lisbon strategy. as regards the specific question from the honourable member on the action envisaged by the council and the possible impact of the proposals in this area, it is obvious that the council can only act by legislative means on the basis of a proposal from the commission. that is what the treaties say. no legislative proposals are currently under consideration for the reception of children. ensuring the adequate and quality provision of these services remains a matter for the national competence of the member states. while the barcelona objectives have already been achieved in the european union as a whole, the council reiterated them in the european pact for gender equality, adopted in march 2006, when the european council decided that the provision of quality childcare facilities should be strengthened in line with the national objectives of each member state. we also recall that the council also reiterated its commitment to family policies, including childcare, in its conclusions of 30 may 2007 on the importance of family-friendly policies in europe and the creation of an alliance for families. the honourable member also mentioned the 18-month programme of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies, which states that one of the main objectives of the three presidencies is to strengthen the european social model, which is an integral part of the lisbon strategy, and that in this particular context the emphasis will be on a better balance between work, family and personal life and adequate childcare facilities, as well as support for the elderly and people with disabilities. in pursuit of this objective, the portuguese presidency is also organising a conference on the reconciliation of work, personal and family life: new challenges for the social partners and public policies. this conference will take place in lisbon on 12 and 13 july 2007, so it will start tomorrow.
i also welcome the new presidency and thank the representative of the portuguese presidency for his reply. of course, july 12th and 13th are the next few days. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to ask the council and the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
member of the commission. madam president, we have done a lot of work together, and, at least in my view, it has been a constructive dialogue under this democratic scrutiny. it has included numerous parliamentary debates and many exchanges of views between distinguished members of this house, myself, my colleague louis michel and many commission officials. we have exchanged a series of letters – the last one, as i have said, to mr borrell fontelles. as has been mentioned, three parliamentary resolutions have been voted on, with a fourth currently under discussion. now we are entering a new phase: the implementation of projects and programmes, where each institution will have to play its specific role. i agree with mr mitchell, who said that parliament is responsible for oversight. we absolutely agree with that, but not with micro-management, and we will give parliament – you can be sure – a maximum amount of information. to mr van den berg, i would say that, first of all, we would like to pay tribute to the great work that you have been doing on development issues, but also, particularly, as chief observer on difficult missions. i have appreciated very strongly your balanced approach to that. as regards the specific issue that we are discussing tonight – the consultation on the thematic programme, investing in people – i will inform louis michel of the request for consultation within and with the acp partners, as has been mentioned. for the rest, i can only say that we have really tried to take things into account. but, please, give us credit also for being a responsible organisation and responsible stakeholders on this scene. if we can work as partners, you will have a very responsible partner.
member of the commission. madam president, this year the commission has activated the community civil protection mechanism twice, at the request of greece and cyprus, to help fight fires – especially forest fires. through this mechanism, the member states and other participating states in europe have the opportunity to express their solidarity by offering civil protection assistance. the commission coordinates and facilitates the assistance which is made available. recent developments have given a positive impetus to the further development of the commission’s role in the field of civil protection. the political agreement reached by the council in june on the recast of the community civil protection mechanism reinforces the commission’s legal mandate to engage in the coordination of operational activities. the recast will allow the commission to reinforce the guidance function of the mechanism. the civil protection financial instrument, adopted in march 2007, gives a more central role to the commission, notably as regards facilitating member states’ access to transport services and the financing of transport of assistance. member states or candidate countries may also request support from the eu solidarity fund. the commission has, so far, received three applications for financial assistance this year. these applications relate to flooding on the spanish canary island of el hierro, to the major storm kyrill in germany and to the tropical cyclone gamede in the french overseas department of la réunion. in greece, extremely hot and dry weather conditions combined with strong winds led to a disastrous upsurge of forest fires and wild fires. by 28 june, there were over 120 fires in the country. greece called upon the community civil protection mechanism to supply additional fire-fighting, water-bombing aircraft and helicopters that can also be used in the fight against forest fires. five member states offered assistance. offers for a total of seven canadair aircraft – from france, italy, portugal and spain – were accepted. within two hours, two canadair sent by italy were on their way. fortunately, by monday 2 july the forest fires were under control and the aircraft returned to the countries of origin. on saturday 30 june, cyprus requested assistance in controlling the disastrous forest fires in the trudos mountains. italy proposed sending two canadair. fortunately, local conditions rapidly improved and, as the assistance was no longer necessary, the aircraft that were already on their way could return to their base. up to now, neither of the two countries has made contact with the commission with regard to the solidarity fund application. in these two cases, and whenever member states face disastrous events, the commission services stand ready to activate immediately the civil protection mechanism and to provide assistance and guidance, should the affected countries consider applying for such funding.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, a few days ago very large fires were also affecting my own country, greece, and last year at this time we were talking about similar, much larger fires in spain and portugal. it is obvious that the european union can have its own intervention, its own added value, both in preventing natural phenomena such as those we are discussing and in dealing with problems. the european union has a right and a duty to play a part in preventing these disasters, since many of them cross national borders, whether they are fires or floods. the commissioner has mentioned the aid provided by other member states, and that is why, in my view, we need a more concerted intervention by the european union with a european civil protection force. but there's also the matter of compensation. cyprus may not have asked for help yet, but as you know, data needs to be collected and if the thresholds set by the solidarity fund regulation are indeed exceeded, such requests can be made. however, commissioner, you know that the council has long been waiting to adopt the new regulation on the solidarity fund, a regulation which will respond to the developments and problems we have seen in the meantime. and here is a failure of the council as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have spoken many times about natural disasters, and we expect the european union to take more active action.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. i am sure that you too share the grief that has struck greece this afternoon. three firefighters are dead, one burned to death in the intensive care unit of the rethymno hospital. they were putting out a fire that had broken out early in the afternoon in a not-so-green area in a bush forest. the children are dead, and of course the vehicle they were in burned down. it's the tragic account of this summer. it's important that three people were burned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i have listened to you very carefully, commissioner. you're one of the people we trust. indeed, we are protecting forests on the other side of the planet. we all care about the amazon, even if it's so far away! and we're interested in why it provides oxygen. but we must be much more concerned about the forests that are one tenth of the distance from the amazon. something has to be done! when two governments in greece have not received a single euro from the cohesion fund for the protection of forests for seven years, as mrs hübner said, then the initiative must go to europe. my proposal is this: the european union can buy its own fire engines and station them in the fire-prone areas. we don't borrow from one country to another, and if the other country doesn't have a fire at that time. let there be 100 or 150 firefighting aircraft available in europe to be stationed in high-risk areas and save the forests. it is not only greece that is suffering, but europe as well. it is not just portugal that is suffering, but europe as well. the forests are dying. the forests of greece have been reduced by 50% since the transition to democracy, that is to say in the last 33 years, and there may be many forests in austria, mrs ferrero, but there are not so many forests in greece. we are committing a crime. the day before yesterday, athens' main lung, parnithos, burned down, just 10 miles from a place with 5 million people. we're short of oxygen. and of course the dangers are not just from the fire, they are also from the floods that follow when a forest burns. europe must take more initiative. i am afraid that there is sometimes a lack of ability to deal with such matters, which are crucial. the forests are burning. temperatures are rising. yesterday in greece we had the hottest day in 100 years. you see, not everyone comes to accept kyoto rules. industry is changing the atmosphere. the atmosphere raises the temperatures, the temperatures bring fires. we must be effective in order to deliver to our children a world that is bearable, a world in which they can live.
commissioner, today we mourn the loss of three unfortunate firefighters who lost their lives in crete and we send our deepest condolences to their families. this tragedy was not inevitable. it had foreseen it, but did nothing to prevent it, the greek government in a recent report to the commission, where it admitted dangerous shortcomings in the coordination of ministries and the absence of prevention plans. however, as the same report also admits, greece had a spectacular improvement in its forest protection performance in the period 2001-2004. the greek tragedy of 2007 is a reminder that unfortunately fires will always exist. but there will also be good or bad policies to prevent and deal with them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore call on you to send a commission fact-finding mission to greece immediately and to activate the solidarity fund to support my country. the fires have destroyed huge areas of greek and european forest wealth. and the lessons from their failure to be suppressed can serve all of europe. last year, in answer to a question i put to him, commissioner dimas revealed that he had three times stressed to the government that the commission was ready to send firefighting aid to greece for the fires at the time and three times greece had refused it. this year, after we had awakened them, the greek government finally activated the mechanism you mentioned. but he could of course save nothing when the government failed to address all the other known huge shortfalls.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are protected, and that the forests are protected. i do not want to speak at this time about the shortcomings, the responsibilities of governments. i would like to ask for greater solidarity from the european union to protect our common forest heritage. more money from the solidarity fund, from the overseas development fund. the commission's proposals, which are sitting in the commission's drawers, are not being implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of theoretically discussing climate change, let us do something as the european union to protect our forest wealth.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. madam president, can you imagine a family setting a table at home for lunch, with the father eating lobster, the mother eating salmon, one child eating meat, another eating beans, another eating grass, and the other eating nothing? this can't be happening! the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. there are 80 million citizens in europe living below the poverty line. there are pensioners in greece who live on 300 euros a month and feel very well, because in neighbouring countries other pensioners live on 80 euros. this is the policy of europe! some of the hardest-to-reach areas of greece, like epirus, or some of the other remote islands near turkey, were suddenly getting rich, precisely because the new countries coming in lowered the average. this is not reasonable! we have to find a way to grow the economy equally for everyone. when there is a racist perception from ministers who create the economy, like finance minister mr. alogoskufis, who said the other day that people of color are not people - he even called them disgusting and despicable "niggers"! - when they have such a racist view, they cannot impose an economy of equality, an economy that grows all over the world. the poor have a right to life and we must find solutions. we shall not measure the quality of europe by the number of mercedes-benzes in circulation, but by the number of children who do not have a glass of milk in the morning!
madam president, today, seven months after the start of the fourth programming period, and in view of the debate on the future of cohesion policy, with this report, for which i congratulate the rapporteur, the european parliament is stressing that there is no margin for failure in the new programming period. cohesion policy must not only achieve its objectives and boost growth and employment in the poorest regions, but also make its results visible, understandable and acceptable to all and at all levels. the allocation and commitment of funds alone does not guarantee the proper use of resources, nor does it guarantee the reduction of the widening, as currently observed, of disparities between european regions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must protect and promote the policy of solidarity and cohesion and strengthen its effectiveness. the report makes important recommendations in this regard. let's make the most of it!
in writing. we are voting against the resolution on the situation in the middle east. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east is an attempt to hide the eu's imperialist policy in the region through a mock-up. it conceals the enormous responsibilities of the eu, the policy of equating the victim with the perpetrator and the imperialist interventions of the eu, the us and nato, which have the result of perpetuating the israeli occupation of palestinian territories, the crimes of the israeli government against the palestinian people. the imperialist interventions of the usa-nato and the eu in the "new middle east" as well as the adventurous policy of israel in the wider region are responsible for the dangerous situation in the palestinian territories, lebanon and the wider region. the immediate withdrawal of the israeli occupation army from the palestinian territories, the establishment of an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital and the end of imperialist interventions in the countries of the middle east are basic issues in the struggle of the peoples of the region.
in writing. we are opposed to the report not only because we are against the eu and the accession of fyrom to it, but also because we believe that the eu's intervention is dangerously complicating the situation in the region and undermining the process of finding a mutually acceptable solution within the un. we do not focus on the name, as it indicates a geographical identification and any minority references and redemptive positions are removed. the source of the problems is imperialist planning, eu, us and nato interventions in the balkans and the changing of borders. the accession of macedonia and other balkan countries to the eu and nato will create new problems to the detriment of the peoples. the course of our country's relations with fyrom, the developments in the aegean and cyprus issues prove that the eu, nato and the usa are not a guarantee for peace and security, but undermine national independence and involve our country and the other countries of the region in dangerous situations. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr van miert, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. our people and the people of the region can ... (deleted due to exceeding the 200 word limit)
in writing. i do not support the mayer report in its final form because i wanted it to take more account of the positions and sensitivities of the greek side and the ongoing bilateral negotiation on the name of the neighbouring country under the auspices of the un. i am very much afraid that the historic opportunity for a satisfactory compromise with fyrom, with a commonly accepted composite name, was lost for good in 1992. my party continues to support a solution of a compound name of common acceptance and any related constructive initiative. we do not, however, regard the name of the neighbouring country as a central priority of our foreign policy.
in writing. the committee of the regions is strongly opposed to and votes against the report on the effectiveness of eu cohesion policy. the eu figures used in the report prove just the opposite. the contradictions and inequalities between the member states and the various regions of the eu are growing and deepening. the myth of the supposed convergence and cohesion of the eu member countries is illustrated by the example of greece, whose per capita gross domestic product in 1960 was 44.78% of the community average, in 1980 before its accession to the then eec reached 71.79%, and after more than 20 years, in 2002, it was only 66.59%. the eu's policy not only fails to reduce inequalities and poverty, but on the contrary increases them to the utmost. it opens the way for monopoly capital to plunder the wealth-producing resources of the eu member states, intensifying the exploitation of their peoples. the aim of the so-called 'cohesion policy' is not so-called convergence but the shaping of the living conditions of workers to the lowest possible level, a mere step before poverty, in order to contain the social explosions which are inevitable.
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to apologize to my colleague, mr stravros dimas, who would have liked to take part in this debate, but his recent and serious eye operation has prevented him from doing so. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission expresses its deepest regret at the devastation caused by the forest fires in greece. our thoughts are with the victims and their families. president barroso travelled to greece this weekend to see for himself the situation. commissioner hübner went to assess the extent to which eu funds can contribute to the national reconstruction effort. she'll give an account of her visit at the college meeting tomorrow. commissioner dimas, who was in greece at the time of the first fires, witnessed the deployment of international assistance to help the greek firefighters. the commissioner also spoke to the college to inform the commission as a whole of the assistance provided by his services and to call on all available instruments to help in the rapid reconstruction. we have seen a human tragedy and an ecological disaster. the fires have destroyed lives, homes and the economic fabric of an entire country. the extent of the damage is considerable. at least 180,000 hectares of land were burned and 130 towns and villages were devastated. in the worst affected areas, such as the peloponnese and central and eastern greece, regional economies have been severely affected. all european citizens were moved by the images of the fires and europe was quick to react and take matters into its own hands when greece asked for help. the commission's information and monitoring centre was able to coordinate the assistance offered by 14 member states. the international community was able to provide additional firefighting assistance, thus playing a major role in controlling the spread of the fires. helped by the commission, greece's european partners were able to provide specialised air support: 13 canadair water bombers and 20 helicopters - this data is to be updated on monday - firefighting ground forces, vehicles and other equipment. significant aid was provided by norway, switzerland, serbia, russia and israel. this was the largest european civil protection operation launched by a member state of the union. the assistance provided was effective, prompt and provides a striking example of european solidarity. the damage caused by the fires in greece is exceptional and comes against a background of a general increase in this type of disaster. between july and august of this year the commission received a dozen or so requests for international assistance, in particular from greece, cyprus, italy, bulgaria, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. in general, the response from the member states was generous and immediate. however, the increase in requests for assistance has led to a situation where the limits of air firefighting capacity have been reached. the european union should give top priority to the possibility of mobilizing additional capacity and should provide itself with the means to provide additional air forces for firefighting either through third countries or through the private sector. the greek government estimated the damage at around eur 4 billion, or approximately 2% of greece's gross domestic product. the government is preparing a coherent action plan to redress the situation. it informed the commission of its intention to request assistance from available union programmes. in addition to the terrible damage to the environment in greece, there is the immediate risk of torrential rains flowing into the rivers and damaging this fragile ecosystem and soil erosion leading to landslides and water pollution. many protected areas have been destroyed and the commission is examining how available funds, including the life+ fund, could be mobilised to help restore destroyed habitats. these aspects have been discussed in detail by the college and the commission is committed to taking all possible measures to assist the greek government in dealing with the social, environmental and economic consequences of these fires. the instruments available to meet the needs expressed by the greek people include the possibility of reprogramming the structural funds for the regions and programmes directly concerned. in addition, the solidarity fund may be mobilised on the basis of a request from the greek authorities. in this context, the cooperation of parliament and the council will be essential to minimise the process of adopting an amending budget proposed by the commission in order to be able to mobilise this fund. as regards the support to be provided by the 2006 operational programmes concerned, the commission will examine the request for amendment by the greek authorities as soon as it is submitted with maximum flexibility within the framework of the existing regulatory provisions. the remaining funds will be redirected to meet the immediate needs of the people and regions affected by the crisis. a fast track procedure will be used by the commission to ensure a swift decision. for the period 2007-13, the commission will proceed to the adoption of new programmes as planned in october, following the request of the greek authorities. these programmes may be adopted at a later date in accordance with the needs identified and the regions and sectors concerned, on the basis of an overall plan submitted by the greek authorities. for the european social fund, we must already ask the greek authorities to include a substantial human resources component in the action plan being prepared. this plan should cover all areas: employment, inclusion and health, education and training, and public administration reform. climate change can lead to drier winters and hotter summers, creating an ideal environment for fire. the risk of forest fires is increasing and the european response to this tragedy must also take into account the need to reduce the impact of future fires. forest management is primarily the responsibility of member states, which is understandable given that national governments are better able to manage their national territory, invest in fire prevention measures and plan emergency services responses. there are also a number of possible ways in which the european union can support the national response in this area. the commission intends to prepare a communication on forest fires and will examine some practical measures which could help to improve forest fire prevention and the rehabilitation of economies and ecosystems. while the union's response to civil protection has been impressive, the commission considers that the time has come to strengthen its capacity in this area. this is something that the commission has been considering since early 2006, as president barroso had asked michel barnier to write a report on this issue. we will take the recommendations of the barnier report very seriously when proposals are made. it is encouraging to note that parliament has always supported an ambitious development of european civil protection capacity. however, for new measures to be adopted, the support of the member states must be unanimous, and this has often been difficult to obtain. in 2006, the commission proposed the mobilisation of community funds from the civil protection financial instrument to provide additional means of civil protection, such as aerial firefighting equipment, in the event of large-scale disasters. this is almost word for word what is stated in paragraph 9 of today's resolution. unfortunately, a number of member states do not share this approach, which cannot be completed. the commission therefore urges member states to adopt a more ambitious approach when proposals are put to them in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, commissioner špidla has described in detail the great disaster that has befallen my country. the president of the commission, mr barroso, and commissioner hübner also visited the country and the areas affected by the disasters. i would like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of all the greek people, the european union, the member states and other countries for their immediate response, providing specially trained firefighters and airborne vehicles to help my country decisively to put out the devastating fires. i would also like to point out that similar devastating fires - not to the extent of greece - have been experienced by all the countries of southern europe which have experienced similar phenomena. what matters now is that we have to look to the next day. and the next day has begun. the first measures to provide financial support to the victims are already having an effect. within a few days, most of the beneficiaries have received both the money for their basic needs and for replacing their home equipment. a large number of homeless people have mobile homes available for their temporary accommodation. the farmers and herders who have suffered damage - i would like to point out that the farmers count more than 73,000 burned animals - have been granted, after consultation between the greek government and the european commission, advance payments of compensation for the crops, livestock and facilities that have been damaged. i would also like to inform the commissioner that what he said is already being done. the study and development of a recovery plan for all the fire-affected areas has already begun. the project aims to meet the immediate humanitarian and economic needs of the victims quickly and effectively and to repair the damage to the natural environment as quickly as possible. a special chapter of the project concerns the reconstruction of the landscape at the archaeological site of olympia, which, an ancient stadium, museum and other buildings, was saved by the superhuman efforts of the firefighters. greece - and we have to admit this - has received the most assistance from the community civil protection mechanism since it was set up in 2001. this assistance has shown that the european union is based first and foremost on the principles of cooperation and solidarity. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is aimed at following the european commission's lead in mobilising the european solidarity fund as quickly as possible and securing all the financial means available to deal with the medium and longterm consequences. secondly, the creation of a special rapid response mechanism in the event of major natural disasters - there is also a preparatory work on this - and we also believe that the commission - mr špidla mentioned this, but i would like to emphasize this in particular - should consider the creation of an independent supplementary force consisting of private firefighting aircraft or countries that do not face a risk of fires during the summer months in europe. this support force could be deployed in high-risk countries and be ready to operate by summer 2008. i am confident that the union will stand by my country, thus demonstrating in practice that solidarity is the basic principle governing our relations. in conclusion, i would like to thank you once again for your support so far. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, my country, greece, is facing a tragedy. this summer, 75 lives were lost. about three million acres of forest have been burned, and we are facing a huge ecological and economic disaster. the state was found unprepared. the rulers have tried to blame this whole tragedy on an invisible enemy, on asymmetric threats, implying internal or external terrorist action. the truth is we are paying for the sins of both the current and the previous government. greece is the only country without a forestry and land register; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forestry sector is not affected by the changes in the legal framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's got to change. unfortunately, this tragedy was not adequately prevented. although the dry and arid winter warned along with the heat waves of large fires, there was insufficient protection, poor coordination at the time of the disaster, and tens of millions of euros approved by the cohesion fund for forest protection have not been allocated even now. the commission has already approved 33 million euros since 2000 and not a single euro has been absorbed so far. the member state called greece must do more. but we must also do more, as the european union and as the european parliament, to deal with our common european forest heritage. no more words, mr. spidla. no, we will study the barnier proposals which have been sitting in your drawer for a long time. the barnier proposals were ordered by you and you must implement them, promote them. we must give more money from the solidarity fund and the overseas development fund directly, without red tape, to greece and the other countries affected. finally, a fund should be set up to protect european forests and prevent fires, and consider whether, as you have done with floods, there should be a directive on fire protection. and another thing: we need - and i ask this on behalf of my political group - more europe to protect forests and the environment. instead of helping the americans with rapid reaction forces in iraq and afghanistan, let us create a european rapid reaction force to deal with natural disasters. it is not enough to talk theoretically about the danger of climate change. we must do more about this as the european union, which means common policies, more money from the common funds and tighter control of member states when they violate european environmental legislation.
mr president, we mourn today the 65 dead in the flames of uncontrolled fires in greece. we are witnessing the enormous destruction, in just one week, of over 12% of the forest wealth of greece, which is also the forest wealth of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they must feel responsibility. the responsibility for the fires obviously does not belong to this room. but as meps we have a responsibility to make sure that europe releases aid immediately and without red tape to help rebuild the devastated areas. and we have a responsibility to draw all the necessary conclusions from the problems of preventing and extinguishing these fires so that greece or any other member state of europe will never again experience such a tragedy. pasok meps thank all our colleagues from different political groups who have called and sent messages of support to the greek citizens. we thank martin schulz for his immediate visit to my country and for his mobilization, together with george papandreou, to inform and secure european support. and we thank all the european governments who sent aid, and the commission for its coordinating role. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, the solidarity fund must be reformed to provide real and immediate aid. i am particularly pleased that the commission is giving a favourable view to the proposal to release funds from the third community support framework. in the midst of such a tragedy, funds for the affected should not be wasted, which are threatened with loss because of their inability to absorb them. finally, i am in full agreement with the creation of a rapid reaction team, not to replace the responsibilities of national governments but to assist them in cases of exceptional disasters. through the destruction, hope can be born. but to do this, it is necessary: - first, the burned areas should be transformed into a global model of sustainable and dynamic development, there should be no environmental migrant; - second, massive reforestation; - third, the abandonment of any discussion on the de-classification of forests which are the bread and butter of all kinds of arsonists; - fourthly, the draconian prohibition of illegal building in the burned areas; - fifthly, the creation, finally in greece, of an independent ministry of the environment. as far as the conclusions are concerned, this tragedy was not inevitable. the greek government itself had foreseen this in a recent report to the commission, in which it admitted to dangerous lack of coordination between ministries and the absence of prevention plans. and yet, greece, as the same report also points out, had a spectacular improvement in forest protection performance from 2001 to 2004. nor was the number of simultaneous fires unprecedented. and in 2000, we had similar numbers but not the same results. the greek tragedy of 2007 is a reminder that there will always be fires, just as there will always be arsonists. the central issue is therefore that there should also be serious prevention and suppression policies. we must look at the problems that have arisen in greece, not to condemn but to prevent similar disasters in the future. the 65 dead is an unbearable number in europe in 2007. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the devastating fires and floods that have hit greece, but also italy, portugal, great britain and other countries of the european union this summer are not a flash in the pan. these unprecedented disasters put the need to identify the real causes, to identify the perpetrators and to put an end to this continuing crime against the peoples at the forefront. we would like to point out the following: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the fires, which have burned 75 of our fellow men and over 2.5 million acres of forest and caused enormous damage to thousands of ordinary households, constitute an unprecedented and heinous political, economic and ecological crime against the people of our country. we have warned of the painful consequences in time and unfortunately we are justified in the most tragic way. let me point out this: the 1993 inter-party committee of the hellenic parliament, which was unanimously voted by all parties, noted that the property regime is unclear and encourages speculation and illegal occupation of forest land, especially in peripheral and coastal areas, and that there is a lack of investment in forestry; the commission has proposed the establishment of a single forestry protection agency and the establishment of a forestry pension. what was accomplished by all of this? it was nothing. the joint resolution of the european parliament's groups on the forest fires in greece, their consequences and the conclusions to be drawn from the prevention and early warning measures leaves out the real causes and the anti-people policy of the european union and the governments of the member states. there is no such thing as foresight. this extremely dangerous anti-people policy arms the hand of the arsonists and rewards the trespassers. it is destroying the environment, leading to painful climate changes with incalculable consequences for humanity. as long as this anti-people policy, motivated by the increase of capital profits, continues, the burning of forests and land will continue, as will the burning of workers' and people's rights to employment, education, health and culture, sport and the environment. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's tourism policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis, and that the community's tourism policy is not disrupted by the economic crisis. we believe that this must be ensured at least as far as greece is concerned. no change in land use. direct universal compensation for agricultural production and damaged agricultural capital. free housing rehabilitation for all rural residents under the responsibility of the state and through state bodies. the immediate implementation of flood control and other key prevention and infrastructure projects to prevent new flood tragedies, as well as immediate measures to protect the environment and historic sites, the establishment of a forestry register, the establishment of a single forest monitoring and protection body and the abolition of deforestation laws are of great importance.
mr president, the huge number of fires that have struck greece, many of which were caused by arson, combined with the high temperatures, prolonged drought and winds from many of the buffers, have resulted in the loss of lives, the destruction of homes and crops and the burning of thousands of livestock. large areas of beautiful forests were burned, causing an unprecedented environmental disaster. one of the important principles on which the european union is founded is the principle of solidarity. the solidarity expressed by many member states of the union and by the commission and by other states is why greece is grateful to those who have come to deal with a natural disaster caused by circumstances beyond all imagination. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. the joint resolution's proposals concern, among other things, the restructuring and new flexible rules for the european solidarity fund, the coordination of preventive actions and effective assistance in response to natural disasters and, finally, it strongly supports the creation of a special european civil protection force to be activated, always of course in addition to national actions, in such situations, in line with the barnier proposal. i would like to believe that a community mechanism will be set up quickly and that the solidarity fund will be more effective in responding to disasters and victims. we must not sit idly by and wait for another disaster in a member state to bring us back to the same subject. the time to act decisively is now, and far from any petty and petty political approach to the subject of natural disasters and civil protection.
mr president, the greek government is today struggling with all means to deal with the biblical catastrophe that has befallen greece. but the scale of the disaster is far beyond the country's capacity, as mr barroso and mr schultz have also had the opportunity to see. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. the world public is watching and assessing how the european family is dealing with the severe blow suffered by one of its members. i am addressing mr barroso, who is absent, and asking him to exhaust all the means that his institutional position gives him. some of the actions that need to be taken immediately - and i emphasize the word immediately - are the following: - flexible use of the european solidarity fund; - activation of article 100 (2) of the treaty, which provides for additional community financing in the event of natural disasters; - involvement of the commission and the european environment agency in the preparation of a strategic plan for the reconstruction of fire-affected areas; - adjustment of the programmes under the third and fourth community support frameworks to compensate for the losses; - derogation from community rules on agricultural and livestock quotas, state aid and tax exemptions. finally, we are grateful for the help we have received in recent days from the member states. it was indeed priceless. but i do not think it can replace the need to set up a european civil protection force, as suggested by mr sarkozy and mr karamanlis.
mr president, i come today from the much-suffering peloponnese, and in particular from my own country, messina, which has been hit hard by the worst forest fires in a century. it wasn't just one fire or one front. it was hundreds of fires burning at the same time, everywhere, at all hours, day and night, from all directions. i saw villages burn, forests and crops become a speck of fire; i've seen old people prefer to burn their homes to abandon them. i've seen firefighters heroically fall to their duty. 65 people died as martyrs, most of them fighting to save their homes and villages. over 2.5 million acres burned down. tens of thousands of residents have been left homeless and an entire nation is in shock. i am conveying to you the request of this people for support, for solidarity, for hope that they can get back on their feet. i thank the european parliament and the commission for accepting a number of important proposals from the greek government. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the europe we are building means solidarity but also self-confidence. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a force which is not only a political force but also a political force. they need the confidence that the european union can give them. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr president, this summer in greece we have experienced unprecedented situations and it is sad that a disaster of this magnitude involves a human factor. however, today i would like to make a special reference to the danger to which archaeological sites are exposed in the event of natural disasters. natural disasters, and particularly forest fires in greece this year, have endangered monuments of the greatest importance to european cultural heritage. we watched with excitement as the museum of ancient olympia and the archaeological site of the first olympic games were saved, as weather conditions did not allow the fire to be contained before it reached the archaeological site. however, the vegetation in the ancient forest of crone hill was completely destroyed. ancient olympia is a world cultural heritage site. here were born the olympic games, the most important games of ancient greece held in honor of zeus while it was an institution with pan-hellenic radiance in antiquity and global brilliance today, where in addition to the athletic program, cultural events were and are today primary elements of the institution. ancient olympia is the cradle of civilization. i would therefore like to make a special reference to this in the resolution. finally, in this context, i would like to ask for resources to be allocated specifically to these cases, so that in the future they can be protected from destruction and damage by fire can be repaired in monuments and sites of european cultural heritage.
mr president, this is an unprecedented disaster, with human losses, economic and ecological destruction. the reasons? it's the climate change. it's the drought and the high temperatures. but it is also the absence of prevention and planning, and above all it is the lack of coordinated action. it is necessary to take immediate, coordinated action to support the victims. to start immediately the project of reforestation and restoration of protected areas, to prevent illegal construction. we can achieve this by means of european reflexes: mobilizing community resources without bureaucratic delays, through the adoption and implementation of strict environmental legislation to protect forests and ecosystems, through the establishment of an autonomous european rapid reaction team, through the adoption of a european strategy to deal with the effects of climate change. but we also have to emphasize the needs of the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as children, the elderly, the disabled. i thank commissioner špidla for reminding us that we owe it to the greek plan to have anti-blockade measures.
mr president, i should like to focus my remarks on the amendments which i tabled in the committee on constitutional affairs and which were incorporated in the text of the opinion of that committee on the use of soft law. soft or intrusive law exists as a widely accepted form of european regulatory policy in conjunction with coordination, cooperation, negotiation and hierarchy. my main observation is that instruments of common law, which are not legally binding but nevertheless produce certain indirect legal effects, have proved capable of effectively regulating certain areas of community activity within the framework of the community treaties and under the conditions laid down therein. i have also taken the view that legal instruments should be used as preparatory instruments for binding legislative acts, which replace normal legislative acts and help to interpret and enforce community legislation. i would, however, like to point out the following: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a step in the right direction. common law should not be a substitute where binding community legislation is required, subject to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. as i pointed out in one of my amendments, the commission must make a special effort to ensure transparency, visibility and public accountability in the process of adopting non-binding community acts and the increased use of impact assessments in the decision-making process.
member of the commission. as you know, it is a complex issue and it is important to understand that some people have precautionary fears. that is why it is important that we develop the awareness and the level of knowledge as far as possible, because it is of vital importance that we base our decisions on the knowledge we have. i will try to do my best to ensure that this level of knowledge is developed in the future as far as possible.
member of the commission. i would like to respond and to repeat my response which i already sent to mr crowley about the annual procedures and budget procedures in general, and how they can and could be improved. i would like to give my answer in two parts. the first for the current reading, what can still be done, how we can use funds more efficiently, and, of course, the future proposals in our revised treaty, which arose from the june council this year. in the current treaty procedures, we can say that we are satisfied in general with the results, because under the current treaty we have the possibility of improving and finding the fast-track solution if an urgent situation occurs. a recent example is last year’s tsunami, and this year it was palestine and partly kosovo. we were able to find the solution by fast-tracking one reading – but it takes some time, and very much depends on consolidated, trilateral negotiations between the two budgetary authorities and the commission. but of course the honourable member is right in saying that, in this treaty, there can already be a lot of room for improvement, and one of the examples concerns the pragmatic timetable in the annual budgetary procedure – followed since 1975. we, on top of the treaty request, we altogether – i mean all budgetary authorities and the commission – agreed to add two and a half months to the procedure, mainly because at that time there was no electronic mail. now we do not need this time schedule but still, inertly, we have this time schedule on our tables and nobody tries to deal with this question. of course these productivity gains can be drawn already on this example. but another element which is very interesting and we have adopted together in negotiations with parliament and council, and the council has finally adopted, the new financial regulation and its implementing rules, which have been in force since may of this year, 2007. here, already, we have some simplification and streamlining in the implementation of the european budget on an annual basis. but of course probably the best messages i can transfer today to you are the revised treaty proposals. and, here, i would like to point out four elements which can improve democratic scrutiny, accountability and transparency in the budgetary procedure. the first innovative proposal in the revised treaty is that the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure is proposed to be eliminated, providing one procedure for the adoption of the annual budget by the budgetary authorities. secondly, the so-called ‘maximum rate of increase’ in article 27 of the ec treaty – usually a source of conflict in the annual negotiation process – will no longer be in use or necessary because the substitute in practical terms for the maximum rate of increase, the multi-annual financial framework, will be enshrined in the treaties, which is not the case today. finally, in future financial regulations we will have a different adoption process. this will be adopted by codecision with parliament. until 2007 it was decided unanimously only by the council – by the member states. that is a huge difference which we envisage. so all these proposals, together with the possibility of improving on an annual and everyday basis, will give more powers to the democratically elected european parliament and will further democratise the decision-making process.
member of the commission. i would like to announce that we obtained an agreement with the council precisely on the new financial regulation, under our transparency initiative, whereby member states have agreed to report and make public all information on all recipients of funds – not only for agriculture but for all funds. the agriculture agreement will take effect from 2009 and the others from 2008, 2009 and 2010. this is a huge step for transparency, responsibility, openness and communication with citizens. citizens will be able to know who will receive each penny and why, so it will also be much easier for member states to answer.
member of the commission. we know the problem and have applied new regulations and implementing rules to these questions. we hope that the new ones, which have been in place and in force since may of this year, will simplify the procedure and, of course, will allow for a more responsible response from the commission also. we understand that the rules need to be the same for everybody, not only for member states and recipients but for the commission also.
member of the commission. concerning greece in particular, we are looking for at least three sources of possible accumulation of funds. from the regional policy funds, we have a special fund of over eur 1 billion annually which we can use. we are also looking into some re-programming – redirection of programmes which had been previously planned, and the greek government next week will negotiate with our technical people on what programmes they want to change or replace by others and where to prioritise. also, agricultural funds can be used for restoring the land, especially land which was used as agricultural land on this peninsula. so we are able to look into three or four possible sources and to accumulate them. but on the procedural side, referring to the question of the main questioner, sometimes procedures take a lot of time, if we are being open with ourselves and do not fear saying that. of course, we will receive a final concrete request from the greek government approximately 10 days after all calculations, but the response and procedures will take a lot of time. usually, we pay, on average, between six and eight months after the event and that, of course, is not the best solution for the member states and for the situation to be resolved. while the procedures which we have today in the treaty make it possible for us to be faster, the political will of all the budgetary authorities needs to be in place. plus, of course, the proposed new treaty can make this faster. but, in general, on the amounts – that is an absolutely different question. we are all the time being asked to use the budget more flexibly. for example, we have some lines of new spending and some reserves which, by the end of the year, will have been returned. this flexibility is not yet given, by the council or by parliament. i would be happy to have this flexibility, and i am sure my fellow commissioners would be happy to have it because, yes, sometimes this rigidity of the budget leaves us with our hands tied. so there are a few sources: flexibility, general amounts and speed and rapid response from all budgetary procedures. these are the three sources where i see we can gain more efficiency in the final result.
member of the commission. as we are all aware, under article 149 of the ec treaty, the content of the education programme is the responsibility of member states, which means that decisions on the design of the curricula delivered by the educational institutions, as well as the subjects taught, are therefore taken solely by the member states. the commission has the role of supporting the member states in their development of quality education. under our education and training 2010 work programme, the commission plays a central role in facilitating the exchange of best practice between member states in order to help ensure that their education and training systems can meet the challenges of the 21st century. because labour market issues are an important part of the lisbon strategy, it is clear that aspects of education policy that relate to labour market, and more generally to competitiveness, play an important role in this respect. this said, it does not follow that subjects such as ancient greek, latin, history, archaeology and linguistics are unrelated to the labour market. apart from direct employment opportunities in many of these areas, the study of such subjects entails the development and transmission of a range of generic skills, such as analysis and reasoning. one of the reference texts for the work programme in the recommendation of parliament and the council of 18 december 2006 on key competences for lifelong learning, these competences include ‘communication in foreign languages and cultural awareness and expression’. the latter includes an awareness of local, national and european cultural heritage and their place in the world. civic competence as defined in the resolution includes knowledge of contemporary events, as well as the main events in transnational, european and world history. so i think this is a very direct and explicit contribution to the orientation which is asked for and supported by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou, and, i believe, by many other members of this parliament.
commissioner, thank you for your reply. you assured me you were still interested. but what part of the funding is allocated to this purpose in the education and training 2010 programme? you are also the commissioner for culture. what part of the research from the seventh programme will be used in the areas you mentioned above, in the deepening of languages, culture, history and linguistics?
member of the commission. we have to define the role of the eit itself, which is the institution for running the competition selection, the evaluation monitoring and organising the framework for a whole range of knowledge and innovation communities. however, regarding innovation, the core partnership is at the level of kics. there, one can imagine considerable cooperation with smes, and the internal arrangement is not only their right but also works to their advantage because they must build trust to increase or to start new cooperation under the umbrella of the eit and for the basic relations around the intellectual property, the proposal refers to the principles of the seventh framework programme. i am sure that there must be enough freedom and flexibility to arrange intellectual property rights between partners for the benefit of their cooperation and of the relation between kics, vis-à-vis or with the eit, and also for the benefit of course of further application of innovation. we have many models in europe. i think we can use a lot of inspiration for real encouragement and actually eit could be a kind of an icebreaker to open better conditions for a knowledge-friendly europe, including intellectual property friendliness or community patents or policies which are very much needed and important for a real transfer of knowledge between partners.
member of the commission. madam president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, directive 1999/70/ec on fixed-term work requires member states to take measures to prevent abuse resulting from the use of successive fixed-term contracts. however, member states need not convert fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration, provided that other effective measures exist to prevent or punish misuse. this interpretation was confirmed by the european court of justice in its judgment of 4 july 2006 in case c-212/04 adeneler, which concerns greek legislation. the court added that it was not its responsibility to interpret the relevant national legislation. it is for the greek courts alone to interpret the relevant greek legislation and to determine whether it meets the requirements of the directive as regards the existence of effective measures to prevent and punish abuse resulting from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts. greece has implemented the above-mentioned directive in particular by means of presidential decree no 164/2004 on the public sector. the commission has carried out a thorough analysis of this decree and has concluded that it is compatible with the requirements of the directive. since the implementation of the directive was delayed until 19 july 2004, the presidential decree contained a special temporary provision which, under certain conditions, allowed successive fixed-term employment contracts concluded before the date of entry into force of the decree to be converted into contracts of indefinite duration. i am aware that the legal situation regarding the abuse of fixed-term contracts in the greek public sector has been a subject of controversy in the last few years. this is evidenced by the recent judgment of the greek supreme court of 11 june 2007, which overturned its previous case law. as stated above, according to the european court of justice, it is for the national courts to interpret and apply the relevant greek legislation, including the constitution, taking into account the circumstances of the specific cases submitted to them. however, they must comply with the applicable eu legislation, in particular directive 1999/70/ec. the commission is closely monitoring developments in greece. it will closely examine the latest judgment of the supreme court and will monitor the follow-up action taken by the greek authorities. finally, i would point out that, according to the information provided by the commission, several greek courts have already referred questions to the court of justice for a preliminary ruling on this subject. this gives the court of justice the opportunity to express an opinion on the interpretation of the relevant community legislation.
the commission is aware that greece is the only country which has not yet implemented a directive which has been in force for six years. tens of thousands of contractors are suffering at the hands of a government which you say respects the decisions of the courts, but which passes laws which refuse to respect the final decisions of the courts and the case law of the european court of justice. many of those killed in this year's fires in greece were contracted firefighters, with more than 10 years of service, temporary employment and poor training. and you've been saying for months that we're studying it and studying it. are you going to do something as the guardian of european law?
member of the commission. i'll try to answer all the questions very briefly at once, so i'll just focus on the most important ones. since 2006, the european disability action plan has been developing an approach to the active inclusion of disabled people based on the right of disabled people to live independently. the commission is also exploring alternatives to care provided in closed institutions, as the commission's strategy and the overall strategy is to deinstitutionalize care in closed institutions. it promotes research into appropriate practices for deinstitutionalization. the independent living of disabled people needs to be promoted through the provision of quality community services to disabled people, not only in terms of material quality but also in terms of respect for human dignity. i can also say from my experience that the education of those who provide social services to dependent persons is very important for the quality of social services, and the actual respect of the fundamental rights of vulnerable persons and their quality of life depends to a large extent on this. i would also like to note that, as i have already mentioned, the commission, within its powers, actively promotes the development of community services and i would like to note that this development of community services is always geared to the quality of life of individuals. because deinstitutionalization doesn't automatically mean improved quality of life and autonomy. it guarantees it if it is replaced by community services of an appropriate quality and level. in this context, the commission commissioned a study entitled 'integration into society' to assess the situation of disabled people in large closed institutions, where, as is well known, the standards and lifestyles of people in many cases do not correspond to the standards and quality that these people undoubtedly deserve and that we must pursue in order to achieve. however, the commission cannot confirm the idea that the number of people in closed institutions is increasing. there are no such figures available, but as i have already stated, deinstitutionalization is a principle and we will therefore proceed in this direction. i would also like to stress that we welcome initiatives that focus on reflection on the fundamental principles of quality in the provision of social care at european level, and i would like to stress that i consider it to be an extraordinary step forward that the issue of disability rights has been raised to an international level by the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is the commission's endeavour to encourage member states to ratify the agreement as soon as possible and to react concretely to it as soon as possible. the commission is committed to taking into account the needs and rights of persons with disabilities and to addressing them in all relevant european union strategies. the integration of disabled people is addressed at european union level both within the commission's inter-agency disability group and with member states and stakeholders, including persons with disabilities, in the european union high level group on disability. since 2000, the european community has co-financed some 160 projects targeting people with disabilities in developing countries, totalling eur 100 million. these projects provide support to eastern europe, central asia and the acp countries and focus on, inter alia, persons with mental and physical disabilities, capacity building, community rehabilitation, disability rights issues, social inclusion, poverty reduction, deinstitutionalization, etc. ladies and gentlemen, i think there is no doubt that the commission is active in disability policy and that we have made significant progress within the european union. nevertheless, as i stated in one of my previous replies, we still have a long way to go, including the creation of a basic approach to the possibility of supplementing the existing system of european law with some further steps. this is what i was talking about in my answer to the question on the nondiscrimination directives. ladies and gentlemen, i have tried very, very quickly to touch on the most important issues and i understand that in this somewhat improvised form i may have neglected some things and not explained some things clearly enough. therefore, i propose, if it is acceptable, that i now hear your supplementary questions and answer them. however, i shall reply in writing to the questions which i have now answered orally, so that we can give them our due attention.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is the basis of virtually all european strategies to have a dialogue with those who are to be at the table, those who are directly concerned. i can't imagine that we would have developed any strategy, any process without this dialogue. this dialogue is deep and of high quality, but i think it is up to us to find even more effective ways and solutions. the commission intends to facilitate progress in this regard by organising peer reviews and other activities to promote peer learning. it will also strongly recall the commitments made together with the member states in the development of guidelines for the preparation of new strategies to be submitted during autumn 2008. so we have a lot of work to do together.
commissioner, a significant number of disabled people are forced to live in institutions without the choice or the possibility of defining their own lives like any other european citizen. since the active inclusion of disabled people in economic and social life is dependent on their ability to live independently, i would like to ask whether the european commission intends to adopt legislative measures to guarantee this right.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, why is mr de vries's post still vacant after all this time? does the council intend to pay for it ? does he find her useful? - yes or no ? and secondly, why have the counter-terrorism measures that have been taken not been properly implemented by all the member states? but the more general question is whether, in our effort to strike terrorism, we have merely taken steps to counter terrorist action and whether we are pursuing a smart and comprehensive strategy aimed at addressing the causes of terrorism. we must never forget that. fear of our safety often leads us to practices that create a false sense of security. i have repeatedly stated from this position that the preservation of public security is our common objective and self-evident. but the method we follow also shows the level of maturity of our civilization. respect for our rights is not only acquired, it is the only way to our prosperity and security. i believe that, along with the need to assess the effectiveness of all the counter-terrorism measures taken so far, we must examine our course very carefully, so that it does not consist merely in a series of reactions to the actions of terrorists. the debate between the council, the commission and the european parliament must therefore be intensified. the cooperation of the member states is vital. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i consider it essential. the commission has also made it clear that it is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
acting president of the council. i understand your concern. in any case, i think we should also have a positive view of the progress made. if we take account of where we came from and where we were, the creation of the frontex agency is, in my view, already a step forward and a step forward in cooperation within the european union on issues relating to the management of the external borders. as you say, we could eventually develop these capacities and competences of frontex if the member states so wish. but here too, i think, a fundamental word is valid, and it is a non-intergovernmental word, which is a fundamental word and i would say founding word of our union. and that word is solidarity. we must also count on this solidarity, on solidarity with those member states which may at one time or another need it. and that word, irreplaceable, is a non-intergovernmental word, it is a word of unity.
acting president of the council. i also understand the honourable member's question. we must take account of the commitments we have made in the area of frontex, whether they are material, financial or personnel commitments, and we must respect those commitments we have made, and from that point of view i must say that the presidency has not failed to draw attention to these aspects. if there are shortcomings in the commitments, we must make them up and do so urgently. only in this way will frontex be able to carry out effectively the tasks and powers entrusted to it.
acting president of the council. i would like to say that with regard to the question of the management of the frontex agency and to questions relating to emigration more generally, the portuguese presidency has the fundamental objectives of combating illegal emigration more effectively and of improving the adaptation, integration and quality of life of those who work among us and do so legally by contributing to our economic and social development. in this connection, several initiatives are planned under the portuguese presidency. we will also be taking account of the measures which are fundamental and necessary in this area in our relations with third countries. the issue of emigration will always be on the agenda of the presidency and the council in its dialogue with third countries.
acting president of the council. fundamental legislation has already been adopted on the inequality of treatment between men and women in paid employment, including some directives providing for equal treatment in terms of equal pay and access to employment, vocational training and promotions, and working conditions. the commission and eurostat are also responsible for monitoring the situation in this sector in the various parts of the european union. it is clear that policy-making requires high-quality data covering the whole of the european union. in this context, i am very pleased to recall the recent agreement between the council and the european parliament on the creation of the european institute for gender equality, which will work in this very area. as regards the updating of labour legislation, the council can only act on the basis of a legislative proposal from the commission. however, the council also takes advantage of more open methods of coordination in the context of the european employment strategy. in this policy area, our attention is currently focused on the recent commission communication on flexicurity, in which gender equality is explicitly mentioned as one of the possible common principles to be agreed at european union level. we should also welcome the fact that the 2007 spring european council agreed to create an alliance for families to serve as a platform for the exchange of views and knowledge on good practice and policies for families. as regards the question of the introduction of safeguard clauses for the protection of maternity and reconciliation of work and family life in the private sector, i would like to recall the important directives which have already been adopted in the area of parental leave and the protection of pregnant women and new mothers at work.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office for repeating the well-known measures on equality. my question is whether the positive discrimination which some member states have in their legislation, for example by providing for lower pension thresholds for mothers, is condemned today by the european commission which is taking these states to the european court of justice. the council is not prepared to accept this positive distinction.
acting president of the council. i believe that frontex will develop and deepen its powers in line with the needs and, of course, the will of the member states.
acting president of the council. the presidency agrees that improving crossborder law enforcement cooperation is not only an important and urgent issue but also a challenge. the draft council decision on the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime the well-known 'prum' decision on which the council reached political agreement in june 2007 represents substantial progress in implementing the principle of readiness and in strengthening cross-border police cooperation, in particular through joint operations and the provision of assistance in the event of mass events, disasters and serious accidents. the presidency is of the opinion that the 'prum' decision should be implemented as soon as possible so that tangible results can be achieved. the presidency therefore intends to concentrate its efforts on advancing the draft council decision implementing the prum decision in the coming months. the presidency agrees with the honourable member that not all the elements of both commission proposals - one on improving police cooperation and the other on the principle of availability - are included in the 'prum' decision. however, a significant part of the commission proposal on police cooperation is covered by the 'prum' decision and the presidency has no reason to believe that the reopening of discussions on other parts would lead to a different outcome from that reached in april 2006. while the commission proposal on the principle of availability sets out general principles and covers six types of data, the 'prum' decision de facto only deals with dna data, fingerprints and vehicle registration data. the presidency believes that the phased approach to implementing the principle of availability is the most realistic and practical and also one of the most likely to deliver concrete results in the short term for everyday police cooperation and for enhancing the security of the citizens of the european union. the presidency believes that these concrete results send a strong signal about the importance and urgency of crossborder cooperation, thus demonstrating that practical cooperation is possible and is being implemented, if only partially. this will not remove the need to continue efforts to further strengthen law enforcement cooperation, in particular through the elements contained in the commission's proposals. it is hoped, however, that this can be done on the basis of the results achieved to date and those resulting from the implementation of the 'prum' decision.
acting president of the council. the portuguese presidency is acting in this area with ambition, but also with realism. when we look at the measures taken or suggested, we always see where we are coming from and where we want to go, and indeed, in this area of police cooperation, i think that, compared with the starting point, progress is remarkable and important. perhaps not all the progress that many would like, but something has been done and something is being done if that is the will of the member states. for the time being, the portuguese presidency will support, develop and implement the measures that have been agreed and which, in our view, in relation to the situation that existed previously, already represent positive progress in police cooperation.
acting president of the council. the council has repeatedly stressed the importance it attaches to the issue of religious freedom in turkey. minorities and religious communities continue to face difficulties related to legal personality, property rights, schools, internal management and training, residence rights and work permits for turkish and non-turkish clergy, as well as the possibility for foreign clergy to be elected as leaders of their religious communities. the specific problems facing the orthodox patriarchate, in particular with regard to the use of the ecclesiastical title of ecumenical patriarch, must also be examined in this context. this should not affect the rights guaranteed by the european convention on human rights. religious freedom is a key area where tangible progress is urgently needed and where concrete action is required with regard to the adoption and implementation of appropriate legislation in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights. more specifically, the adoption of legislation addressing all the difficulties faced by non-muslim religious minorities and communities, in line with relevant european standards, is considered as a short-term priority in eu-turkey relations. social tolerance must also be developed. in this context, i would assure the honourable member that the issue of religious freedom will continue to be closely monitored as part of the accession negotiations, in the context of chapter xxiii, judiciary and fundamental rights, and the reform process under way in turkey and to be addressed at all levels wherever relevant. this was the case, in particular, at the last meeting of the ministerial troika between the european union and turkey, which took place in ankara on 4 june.
mr president, mr president-in-office, you have spoken for two and a half minutes, you have seen the problem i raised with my question, but you have not taken a clear position. on 22 august, commissioner rehn speaking for the commission stated: the patriarch and the patriarchate should and can freely use the ecclesiastical title ecumenical; and also stated: turkey must ensure that non-muslim communities can acquire legal personality. does the council share this clear position of the commission? if so, why don't you say so? if not, for what reasons? who has tied your tongue?
mr president, the agreement on the third railway package is another step in the sale of public property to capital in order to increase its profits at the expense of the working classes and to increase the exploitation of the workers. the regulation of rights and obligations included in the package is merely to add to the pill for the liberalisation of passenger transport. the railway workers have campaigned against the liberalization of rail transport in both the previous two packages and in this one. the committee on transport and tourism has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the future of the railways, which will be presented to the european parliament in the autumn. we stand with the workers who are fighting for the development of public transport, for a public railway service which will ensure safe, quality transport that will meet the modern needs of workers and be environmentally friendly. we therefore oppose the agreement of the european parliament, the council and the commission, stressing the responsibility of the european union and the governments of the member states for this anti-people policy and the plundering of the people's wealth by capital.
member of the commission. mr president, let me start by thanking ms batzeli and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for all the work they have carried out on this proposal. i will now start to place the proposal into its context. as you know, the restructuring fund did not fulfil our expectations during the second year of the restructuring period, after actually quite a promising first year. as you might remember, we were expecting about 1.5 million tonnes of quota to be renounced in the first year and more than 3 million tonnes in the second year. in reality, the total renunciation in the first two years amounted to only 2.2 million tonnes against an expected 4.5 million tonnes. i am still convinced that the restructuring fund is a good instrument as such, which should be strengthened and improved, taking into account the experiences that we have had up to now. concerning the proposal we are to discuss today, let me make it clear that we are not in a process of renegotiating the sugar reform from 2005. in light of the insufficient take-up under the restructuring fund over the first two years of its operation, the objective is to make a success out of it for the last two years. otherwise the final uncompensated cut of the quotas will kick in in 2010. this proposal aims to make a very attractive offer to those undertakings and to those growers that want to give up quota production in the marketing year 2008/09, while in principle keeping unchanged the conditions for the last year of the restructuring period. for the first time, growers will be able to trigger the restructuring process, but only up to a limit of 10% of the quota belonging to an undertaking. the percentage of the restructuring aid reserved for growers will be fixed at 10% and this payment will be then supplemented by a top-up of eur 237.5 per tonne of sugar quota and this sums up altogether to eur 300 per tonne. i think this is a very interesting offer for the growers and i do not see any need to go further. that is why i will not be in a position to support the amendments in the report on the restructuring fund that asks for changes in the amounts paid, for example 6, 7 and 12, or in the percentage that goes to the farmers: namely, amendment 8. an element of retroactivity will ensure that those undertakings and those sugar beet producers who have already taken part in the restructuring scheme up till now have not been or will not be disadvantaged by having done so. as requested in amendment 9, the eligibility of inulin syrup producers and chicory growers for retroactive payments will be explicitly mentioned in the final text. moreover, undertakings that will be restructured in the marketing or growing year 2008/09 could be exempted from the restructuring levy applied to the quantity subject to the 2007/08 preventive withdrawal, provided that they renounce their quota accordingly. and, last but not least, as an additional incentive for undertakings, their individual restructuring effort will be taken into account in case of an obligatory final quota cut. in order to make it easier to reach a market balance during the restructuring period, it is proposed to make the preventive withdrawal a permanent tool, not only during the restructuring period, exactly as is proposed by ms batzeli in her report. the proposed draft regulations aim to create a secure environment and to remove existing blockages from the system. all these improvements should make the fund a success in the third year, without changing the common market organisation for sugar on the basis of the reform that we agreed in 2005. the measures proposed are balanced to create strong incentives for all parties that are involved in the restructuring process. i want to thank you for your good cooperation, which makes it possible for us to adhere to the tight schedule that we have to work under and to have this much more efficient system in place for the marketing year 2008/09. i am aware that the fund must be improved to achieve its aim and, if this is not possible, i am quite sure that there will be no winners. there will only be losers and, therefore, i have been very grateful for the support that i have met from the agriculture committee and the members.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, allow me to recall that the european parliament in its original opinion on the common organization of the market in sugar had pointed out that the commission's proposals should contribute to the substantial viability of the new system and to the protection of beet growers, sugar factory workers and the producing regions affected by the abandonment of quotas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the final council decisions in 2005 to review the sugar sector, a sector of particular importance for balancing the arable crops market, supplying the european sugar and bioethanol industries and providing a new policy framework for the modification of other common market organisations under review in the new cap, failed to meet these high expectations. the council's decisions seemed from the outset to be fatal and marginal, for they were nothing but a confluence of national demands and complex mechanisms. as a result of this decision and the way it is implemented at national level, their production has so far been reduced by no more than 2,2 million tonnes compared with the target of around 6 million tonnes for 2010. i would also like to point out that for any reduction in production after 2010 the producing regions, workers and producers will not receive any compensation from the restructuring fund, a purely self-financing fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner, in the committee on agriculture and development, has adopted substantial improvements to ensure the smooth application of community decisions at national level without seeking to revise the cmo for sugar in depth, as you also point out in your text. we have not sought to propose a 'multi-speed' revision, since in many regions sugar production has already been partially reduced or completely abandoned, as, for example, has been done in ireland. we also took account of the existing budgetary savings of some eur 3 million which, if not allocated, will not be recycled in the sector, will be integrated into other actions or will be repaid. finally, while respecting the principle of proportionality and equivalence with regard to beef producers, we should all agree to the principle of retroactivity of the proposed measures so as not to create an unfair climate between producers, industries and regions already part of the new system. i would also like to stress that we were very concerned about the ineffectiveness of the great degree of flexibility and subsidiarity on the part of the member states, a flexibility which went so far as to involve an informal form of nationalisation of the measures, since the member states were free to implement the new common organization of the market at their own discretion and in accordance with the pressure exerted on them by the collective bodies and the regional authorities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the amendment of regulation no 318, we believe that a fairer application of the final linear reductions in quotas until 2010 is required. if a straightforward reduction of quotas is necessary in 2010, our committee is of the opinion that this reduction should be carried out in two stages. in the first stage a linear reduction of 13.5%. the second stage will be the application of the commission proposal exempting member states and undertakings which have renounced quotas during the restructuring period. the exemption will be commensurate with the efforts made at national level. i would point out to the commission and to the council - which is not present in this debate today - that the reductions should take account of the contribution of the companies which have either voluntarily reduced their quotas by participating in the restructuring scheme or participated in the precautionary withdrawal scheme. we propose a wider and more long-term use of the precautionary withdrawal measure, thus helping the sector to adapt more smoothly to future challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the amendment of regulation no 320 on the restructuring scheme, which is also the central aspect of the reform, my report proposes: firstly, that the flat-rate amount of eur 237 million per tonne which producers will receive be increased to eur 260 per tonne. and we insist, despite your disagreement, commissioner, because we think it is an important incentive for producers to accept the logic of voluntarily abandoning the 10%; secondly, the single rate of compensation for producers from restructuring aid, which is fixed at 10%, is to be increased to 50%. the 50% is a political commitment by the european parliament from the original proposal and it signals that subsidies should go mainly to producers. it is a political message and not so much a financial one; - thirdly, the compensation paid to companies for the production of bioethanol should be increased from 35% to 100%, considering that a major incentive should be given to the sector's contribution to renewable energy sources ·fourth, and particularly important for the regions, the maintenance of the diversification aid in the regions where the mills were closed at eur 109,5 per tonne of sugar refined until the period 2009-2010. the commission is also aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the community's financing. the revision is not to amend some general provisions but to strengthen incentives; - fifthly, the 10% of the quotas should not apply in principle to small or less competitive producers; - sixthly, the increase in the restructuring aid in the event of partial abandonment from eur 218.75 to eur 625 for the period 2008-2009 - and here i must admit that the rapporteur's position has a particular weight when it comes to supporting such issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to stress that the commission is not prepared to accept it. i think that this is why we should take into account the financing from the restructuring fund and the supplementary financing from the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. - first, retroactivity, since producers, undertakings and districts which have gradually complied since the start of the new marketing year cannot be penalised; - secondly, the level of aid must be reasonable and acceptable to all (and not eur 625 for one year); and - thirdly, it is important that aid to plants for partial cessation of production be increased retroactively until the end of the transitional period. in conclusion, i would like to express one concern: we are following the progress of the negotiations which the commission is carrying out in the framework of the economic partnership agreements with the acp countries. it seems that the commission is ready to abolish the safety clauses on the total quantities of sugar which can be imported into the community from each partner country and the minimum price clause for imported sugar. it also intends to open access to the community market to all 16 sugar protocol countries accordingly. i think, commissioner, that we are called upon to do an important job here and that such decisions outside the institutional framework should not apply because that would be to undermine the political and institutional role of the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the new sugar regulation, which was adopted in 2006 and is already in force, has had its bitter consequences and its first victims. we, of course, voted against it and we were right because factories in the sugar industry have been closed and many beet growers have found themselves on the road to unemployment and are getting a few crumbs as compensation which is also to stifle their reaction and protest. in my country, greece, beet cultivation ensured the people's self-sufficiency in sugar, but also provided jobs for many workers and farmers, as well as economic vitality in neglected peripheral areas. today, two of the five factories have closed, production has fallen by 50%, unemployment in the sector has increased, farmers have been eliminated, areas have been deserted. the amendments proposed today are designed to ensure full application of the new regulation so that there is no deviation from the rates of production reduction already decided: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural production is not reduced to a level of less than 1 million tonnes. this means even greater consequences than those already experienced. the food industry will benefit from the introduction of cheap sugar, and the workers in the sugar industry will suffer, as other factories will be closed and a new number of small and medium-sized beet growers will be eliminated. we are opposed to and will vote against the supplementary arrangements because they strengthen the implementation of the basic regulation and complete the crime against the european sugar industry and its workers.
mr president, commissioner, mrs batzellini and mr deß, we all know that the purpose of the proposed amendments to the cmo regulation is to make it more attractive for the community sugar industry to participate in the restructuring scheme in order to achieve the desired objective of reducing community sugar production. i would like to make three points in this connection: first, the commission's approach is positive, in particular with the proposal to grant, even retroactively, the increased aid to beneficiaries who had already complied with regulation no 318 of 2006 so that they do not feel unfairly treated, despite being the first to contribute to the restructuring of the sector; secondly, i think it is also well established that if the desired reduction in production is not achieved, future linear reduction measures will only concern those member states which have not made efforts to achieve this objective. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is particularly important for countries like mine to be sure that this position is not forgotten when we discuss the future of the sugar cmo for the period after 2010; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. what will be the future of workers in these industries, but what about farmers? are we facing another army of unemployed?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to say to the house that we have voted on a proposal which for the first time gives all producers a flat-rate subsidy of eur 260 plus eur 25, a total subsidy of approximately eur 400. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. article 10 (2) of regulation no 318 concerns the procedure for a possible further reduction of sugar quotas for the period after 2010. the amendment proposed by the committee on agriculture, without even knowing in advance the effects of the application of the new mfa on the member states and the companies, proposes a linear reduction of 13.5% for the period after 2010. for example, if the commission proposes a 10% reduction for the period after 2010, then there will be a problem. with my oral amendment, we are simply trying to give a message and a basic methodology to be followed for the period after 2013 for a possible further reduction, which will take account of the behaviour of the companies, that is to say, whether the companies have adapted to the existing regime and to the regime of the member states.
in writing. the commission's proposal to set a target of 20% of total energy production from renewable sources, to be achieved by each member state and included in national action plans, would be acceptable if it aimed at addressing the needs of the people, reducing energy dependence, saving energy, protecting the environment, safeguarding the energy product as a social good and not as a commodity. however, the guidelines given by the eu are investor profitability and the conversion of the exploitation of res into a vehicle for the entry of private capital, while ensuring its profitability. although renewable energy is inexhaustible in nature and its use helps to reduce pollution, it is also harmful to the environment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of fossil fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not a factor in the decision to liberalize the energy sector and to ensure that the impact on the public interest is not disguised. energy is treated as a commodity and not as a social good. as far as biofuels are concerned, it is a challenge to use food products for energy and not for feeding the hungry when millions of people are starving to death.
mr president, there is no doubt that brazil is a major player in world trade. the economic relations between the european union and brazil should therefore be further strengthened. the european union is brazil's main trading partner, while brazil is only the 12th largest trading partner of the european union. the strategic partnership between the european union and brazil should not, in my view, break up the 'en bloc' approach of the mercosur region. however, this relationship can play a complementary role in two directions: in relation to multilateral negotiations in the world trade organisation and in relation to the free trade area between the european union and mercosur. this free trade area will be the largest interregional cooperation area, while acknowledging the lack of progress in these multilateral and interregional negotiations, whose paths are largely interlinked. the free trade area between the european union and mercosur, as well as the doha round of the world trade organization, have been caught up in the issues of trade in agricultural goods. the role of brazil is particularly important in this respect: brazil, given its influence on economic stability and integration in the wider region, is called upon to contribute creatively towards a balanced and ambitious agreement between the union and mercosur. at the level of the world trade organization, brazil cannot only expect further opening of the markets for agricultural goods of the developed member states. it is up to the united states, mr commissioner, mr president of the council, like the other emerging economies, to assume its share of responsibility in the current doha round negotiations by making substantive commitments to open up highly protective markets and to comply with wto rules and disciplines.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the members who have already given some very interesting initial reactions. mr leichtfried, we have the problem of the eurovignette which is under consideration, a study planned for 2008 in the framework of the eurovignette directive. the date is fixed in the directive and work is under way. i think we have to ask ourselves about urban tolls, but also about the allocation of their product. i think this is a very important question, because, precisely, it would perhaps make it possible, if we had a legal framework, to facilitate the action of mayors to be able, in certain cases, to use this tool, but taking care to allocate the resources thus freed up. the last question in our questionnaire answers something mr savary himself said. i read it: "in the longer term, what added value could be provided by targeted european support for financing clean and energy-efficient urban transport?" it is a question which echoes what mr savary said to us: can there not possibly be a community programme in the future? it's too early to tell, but it's very important to ask the question. and i thank mr savary for saying that there was indeed a certain community added value in such an important policy for the future. mrs ayala sender, of course, citizen information is a major element for intelligent mobility and we know that in this respect satellite navigation, combined with the progress of new information and communication technologies, really must ensure that, for example, a bus stop can be a place of passenger information. there is a lot to be done there and we really need to put the best technologies at the disposal of cities. and then you mentioned the rationalization of the distribution of goods in the city centre: there is also a huge effort to be made. mrs ţicău, i thank you for stressing the problems of access for disabled city dwellers and also, quite simply, for people with reduced mobility. i think that's another major element of this case. we must give this european citizenship a content and i would only see advantages in the fact that we would end up with a real charter of passenger rights and duties which is favourable to these categories. mrs douay was right to remind us that, of course, mobility cannot be conceived as a whole either. there are those who live in the city, there are those who come to the city for work and, therefore, there is also a more integrated approach that must be taken. but, mrs douay, i will end by addressing all the members and you. we have made, if you will, a fairly open sketch, because we did not want to lock the answers, already, in a number of too restricted standards. the questions are open on purpose. however, i also see the effort that will be needed to arrive at a coherent and effective action plan, otherwise there will be no european added value. i thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and i hope that we will continue this exciting debate on urban mobility in the months ahead.
member of the commission. madam president, i am happy to contribute by answering on the issue of the specificity of sport. it would be very timely to discuss this even in more depth not now, but later on because on 11 july this year the commission adopted a white paper on sport. this was a very important contribution, which stressed the importance of promoting the training of young, talented sportsmen and sportswomen in proper conditions, which is crucial for the sustainable development of sport at all levels. this was an institutional and very political contribution to the question and to cooperation on this matter. i quote from the paper: ‘rules requiring that teams include a certain quota of locally trained players could be accepted as being compatible with the treaty provisions on free movement of persons if they do not lead to any direct discrimination based on nationality and if possible indirect discrimination effects resulting from them can be justified as being proportionate to a legitimate objective pursued, such as to enhance and protect the training and development of talented young players.’ i think this is a very important clarification of how to understand this issue. the commission is currently in the process of evaluating the compatibility of uefa’s measures on home-grown players with community law, with a view to striking the right balance between the need to comply, on the one side, with community law and the autonomy of sports organisations, and with the interests of european football on the other. this is done in the light of the declaration annexed to the amsterdam treaty, the so-called nice declaration of the european council in 2000, and the white paper on sport, which specifically mentions, as action number 9 in the pierre de coubertin action plan, ‘to complete the analysis of rules requiring that teams include a certain quota of locally training players’. this comprehensive comparative information on football academies in member states and on home-grown players is not available at present. in 2006, the commission launched a study on sport academies in member states, including the issue of home-grown players. the results of this study are expected to provide valuable input for its analysis. concerning the second part of the question – because it consists of two sentences on the specificity of sport – chapter 4 of this white paper develops the concept of specificity of sport within the limits of existing eu competences. as described in more detail in our staff working document in the annexes, decisions taken by the european court of justice and the commission show that the specificity of sport has been recognised and taken into account in the past. the commission shares the view that certain values and traditions of european sport should be promoted and will continue to recognise the specificities of this sector, while respecting eu law. however, a case-by-case approach remains the basis for the commission’s control of the application of eu law, and in particular competition and internal market rules. this is in line with the current treaty provisions. in order to provide legal clarity for all stakeholders and to contribute to the improvement of governance in european sport, the above-mentioned staff working document and its two annexes explain in depth this issue of specificity. it concerns sport and eu competition rules and sport and internal market freedoms, and takes stock for the first time of european court of justice case-law and commission decisions in the area of sport. i want to underline that, for the first time, the specificity of sport is set out in our policy document much more than it has been at any time in the recent past in the eu context. that is one of the most important contributions – not only to this answer, but also to the promotion of sport in the european union.
member of the commission. i would love to give more of an answer, but there is already a kind of step forward if we recall our debates a year ago, or at least from the perspective of parliament. i think that the answer i quoted, which is part of the communication, of this policy paper, is an important assurance that we want to support the specificity of sport, particularly of football, in terms of the protection and promotion of young people and the training of, and investment in, young people. the study has not been completed, because we do not have all the data we would like to have. i hope that with the complementary questionnaire we are now working on we will get the remaining figures. it is very important that partners from member states’ associations, federations, clubs and leagues, work with us. hopefully in a foreseeable time – i would like it to be early next year – we will be able to give a definitive answer. in two weeks’ time we will meet with all stakeholders from the world of sport in brussels to debate the content and implementation of the white paper. i believe that this part will be very crucial for concrete action and the promotion of the values of sport. on behalf of the commission, i can tell you that we remain committed to these issues, and all the sensitivities must be dealt with duly. before we take any decision – not only in this area, which is quite specific – we have to carry out a thorough analysis and then take real decisions.
member of the commission. i am sure that something really will be done. i use football as a great example, because in a way europe is the best in the world in football. i think we can be the best in many other areas like, for example, higher education, which is usually not seen as the best of europe. no, what europe needs is not only to refer to its successes or to refer to the importance of football or sport for its historical developments and current achievements, but also for the future. a balanced approach to sport activities is one of the answers, which means it is not about money in the first place, but about the rules and values that govern the world and money to support healthy investment. i know about the imbalances, the problems and doubts about the credibility of competitions and about corruption, and too much money deciding who is really a strong partner or strong competitor. since 1999, with the helsinki report – you remember, maybe, even better – and then the nice declaration, there has been, i think, a new momentum. the commission had never come forward with a policy paper. if we come forward, not just with a paper in hand, but to offer actions – and there are 53 actions offered under the name of the pierre de coubertin action plan – then we can do a lot. if we stay credible in implementation, i think we can prepare also the first treaty article on sport, because we do not have a legal base now, and that is why we cannot define some of the actions, and that is why we have to decide case by case, on individual problems. there are many collateral issues in this answer, so more credibility means cooperation of eu institutions, national legislators, but also governing bodies in areas of sport. they set the rules, they govern and they have to be also credible in governing individual disciplines or games or competitions. i would say a sports forum, which we will organise under the portuguese presidency, could be one of the answers for permanent or regular transparent and credible dialogue on all problems and possible solutions, whether on a small scale, in europe or in broader international cooperation.
in a letter to the heads of the 27 member states of the european union, the president of uefa, michel platini, asks them to intervene in the enrichment and expenditure of football clubs for the purchase of players and others, which makes football a trade and not a sporting contest of values. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the european union's competition policy. do you agree with these positions of the uefa president and to what extent? the white paper on sport will be a good occasion to clarify any outstanding issues?
member of the commission. thank you for your concern and for the message indirectly from the president of uefa, michel platini; we met repeatedly, and i even have a description of the ‘home-grown player’ proposal. now, we urge more common action, including the possible inclusion of sport in the reform treaty – it is in the mandate and in the draft. we are not asking for power; in the white paper we are asking for cooperation, for very concrete actions, which range throughout many areas – education, training, social inclusion, public health – but also, on the other hand, repressing phenomena such as violence, racism, corruption in sport or individual organisations or events. we cannot just wait for the next treaty, or even take any consensus reached today for granted in the future. we should act today for a better future, whether in football or in other areas. i think that the european parliament, the commission and the council can address many of the problems, and, as i said, together we can do a lot. it does not mean that we have to intervene at eu level. for example, if we agree in october at ministerial level on the content of an amendment or improvement to our code on anti-doping convention or rules within the world anti-doping agency, then this is the action against doping. i recall mr mavrommatis and many colleagues who claimed urgent action from the union when i became commissioner in 2004 against doping, which was the problem of the olympic games. doping is a very visible, damaging and influential cancer or phenomenon in sport. there we can do a lot, but we have to act, not only discuss, and that is our approach now.
member of the commission. the commission is currently finalising the directive on the promotion of renewable energy, and i am targeting adoption of this directive by the end of this year. and one of the very important issues in this directive will be addressing sustainability of biofuels, the principles described and ways of guaranteeing that biofuels do not have a negative influence on the environment. for this reason, a particular scheme will definitely be proposed that could be used – and will be used – both for domestic grown biofuels and also for imported ones.
member of the commission. first of all, i cannot confirm that there is a lot of illegal timber being brought into the european union, but what i can clearly say is that, so far, there has been a very limited amount of biofuels coming into the european union. we have not had any effect whatsoever in terms of negative consequences for rain forests. the certification schemes that are proposed will be implemented. i have no doubts whatsoever about that, because the general performance by customs within the european union has been very positive.
member of the commission. at present, the main reason for food price increases is the growing demand, especially in china, india and other countries. that is the main reason for the price increases. my colleague, who will speak after me, will explain what measures we must take. it is clear that we must produce more because we must also meet demand. as regards biofuels, the impact on food prices is currently very marginal because the global consumption of biofuels is still low. of course, we have to expect that because in the united states, a lot of corn is being produced for biofuels. this may affect a certain area, but there are ways of meeting the growing demand. i believe that we must find a solution to world market prices at commission level. my colleague has already prepared proposals to that effect.
madam president, commissioner, it is argued that the cultivation and marketing of biofuels can absorb the surplus production of developing countries by converting it into biofuels for own use or export. does the commission consider that the biofuels sector could unlock the doha round negotiations in the world trade organisation?
member of the commission. first of all, when we looked at the negotiating papers from the two chairs, mr falconer, who is responsible for the agricultural sector, put a paper with some gaps between the figures. and when we look at domestic support, which is the most difficult issue for the americans, it is obvious that they have now signalled that they will be able to operate within the gap or within the two figures mentioned in the falconer paper. the negotiations, or discussions, are ongoing, so it will be extremely difficult to say where the final game will end up. but i have to say, the difficult issue for the european union is, as far as the agricultural sector is concerned, of course the tariffs. but even more important than the tariffs is the way that we treat our sensitive products. this is simply key and more important, actually, than the reduction of the tariffs in the different bands which we are operating. so i can only encourage you to keep a close eye on the way to treat sensitive products as this will be key in the final game.
member of the commission. we have actually tried to introduce a discussion on what we normally call the non-trade concerns, but it has been very difficult to relaunch this discussion with some of the other operators. i am quite sure that the issue on the products for which we ask for a certain level of taking care of the livelihood of employees and the health of the employees – of course, i think personally that there is a commitment to the companies that import goods from those countries. you can talk about towels from india with the type of colouring that they are using in specific locations. so i think if we are pulling in the same direction – all of us – i hope that we can find a decent solution.
member of the commission. the commission is still of the opinion that there is a window of opportunity for a positive outcome of the doha negotiations in the very close future, as i mentioned in my previous answer. i can only say again that, unless a breakthrough is achieved before the end of the year, i find it very difficult to see a possibility of finalising the negotiations, because of the upcoming presidential elections in the united states. however, current offers made by some of our negotiating partners are still falling short of what could be required to obtain a balanced outcome to the negotiations. regarding the scope of a final eu offer, the ongoing common agricultural policy reform constitutes clearly the limits of the commission’s negotiating mandate, and this means that we cannot accept a deal that means that we have to reform our common agricultural policy again. it is clearly in accordance with the mandate given by the council, and the negotiation limits that we have will also be, of course, the equivalent concessions from our wto partners in agriculture and elsewhere, resulting in improving market opportunities for our exporters. it is important that when we talk about the reduction of tariffs we sometimes fear that our agricultural sector will come under immense pressure from imported commodities. we have to remember that the coin has two sides, which means that a reduction of tariffs will also take place on the new emerging markets that could be and i am sure this will happen of huge interest for european producers to enter into, such as, for example china, and india. so we are still striving towards a positive outcome of the doha round. it is obvious that a multilateral solution is to be preferred, whereas a bilateral one could be supplementary to the multilateral discussions. we are doing our very best at this stage, but it is crucial, if we find a solution, for it to be a balanced solution within the three pillars of agriculture but also between agriculture, industrial products and services.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. i have the impression that you speak more as commissioner for international trade and less as commissioner for agriculture. does he share your view that the revision of the cap will not affect the commissioner responsible for international trade, mr mandelson? do you share the view that accepting the july 2007 modalities, which go beyond the european union's october 2005 offer, does not go beyond the 2005 negotiating mandate of the council of ministers and that, therefore, before making any commitment to our trading partners, you should seek a renewed mandate from the council?
member of the commission. i think i have heard this before. i might be wrong, but it reminds me of some question raised by the irish minister and some irish meps on the import from brazil, traceability, and the opinion of the irish farmers on lack of traceability. it is obvious that we are following this case closely, and i know that my colleague, commissioner kyprianou, will be meeting the committee in parliament. we want to ensure fair trade, which means that importers or exporters into the european union have to meet the same quality standards as our own producers. i will be visiting brazil next month to see if they can show me what i want to see: that is, how things work in brazil concerning the possibility of tracing back the products that are taken into the european union.
member of the commission. in order to propose a fair share between member states of the overall amount that will be allocated to the national envelope, and of the amount transferred into our rural development policy, we have actually been using three different criteria: areas under wine on the basis of all the available historical data that we have; secondly, the production in terms of volume on the basis of historical averages; and, thirdly, expenditure, on the basis of an historical average, except for bulgaria and romania where the budgetary requirements calculated within the framework of adhesion were used, as those were the only reliable figures that we could use. the weighting between these three different areas is 25% on area, 25% on production and 50% on the budget for the envelopes and the transfer into the rural development policy. 50% for area and 50% for production for that part of the envelope which is specifically related to promotion in third countries, which i consider to be a new and very important forward-looking policy for the wine sector. when we had this discussion on the redistribution between member states’ envelopes, we made a positive correction for three member states so as to limit their reduction in view of the important divergence for these member states between their share in historical expenditure and their share in the two other criteria. this correction was not made to the detriment of the amounts allocated to other member states, meaning that we did not cut other amounts to find money for these three member states, so we simply increased the total budget. this makes it possible to share community support equitably by taking into account, on the one hand, the respective reductive capacity of each member state and, on the other hand, effective implementation of the new measures proposed within the framework of the reform.
madam president, commissioner, while the commission believes that, within the framework of the law, it must take structural action for some member states, is it considering the possibility of reacting in a similar way for greek vine growers recently affected by extremely devastating fires, with the consequence of a significant reduction in their income for the coming years, as well as for the huge areas of thousands of hectares of vineyards that have been burned, which means that the plant capital itself has been damaged? in this case, does the commission intend to show solidarity and help these people?
member of the commission. first of all, i think that everybody who watched the devastating forest fires in greece on the television wondered what would happen afterwards with the damaged areas. i have had the possibility to discuss it with greek members of parliament, with the minister, with the ministry, with the minister for economics from greece as well, while travelling round to find solutions. and there are different solutions, and that will be for my next question. i can only say we cannot solve the problems of the forest fire within the cmo for wine. that is excluded. and i can tell you, if we re-open the distribution of money between the envelopes and member states, it will be like opening pandora’s box, and i have no more money available than the present budget of approximately eur 1.3 billion every year for the wine sector. we have to find solutions to the consequences of the fires within rural development policy, within the regional funding, and i am quite sure that decent solutions will be found.
member of the commission. first of all, i can again only express my sympathy with all the people that have been hit by the consequences of the fires. i think it is important to say that the single farm payment the direct payment to the farmers is not at risk. the possible destruction of the crops, of animals or of buildings, has no consequence on the decoupled payment since there is no obligation to produce. as regards cross compliance, one important rule is that the reduction of direct cap payments under cross compliance can only be decided as a result of actions or omissions directly attributed to the farmer. therefore, forest fires like the ones we saw in greece this summer would not result in the reduction of payments. as far as wine is concerned, in the event of partial destruction, vineyards could be eligible within the restructuring scheme, under the current regulation, and within the national envelopes that will be foreseen for the new cmo. the reformed cmo for fruit and vegetables foresees new crisis prevention and management tools. however, this new regulation will only be in place from 2008, and there is no retroactive clause. as for the last question, the financial rules do not allow the commission to transfer possible savings from the market organisation budget to specific national programmes to support greek farmers. concerning the specific question on non-governmental organisations, monasteries or environmental bodies, the commission does not have the possibility to directly support these for the purpose of environmental restoration activities. european union assistance is only possible through specifically designed programmes and interventions which are drawn up by member states following the principle of subsidiarity and submitted to the commission for co-financing. i want just to mention some specific possibilities in our rural development policy which could be used to help as well. i referred to these in my previous reply. the first option concerns the programme 2000-2006, and can involve modification of the programme complements of national operational programmes and the regional operational programmes in order to reconstruct agricultural potential after national disaster measures. this can, for example, mean that a farmer can get money for buying cattle, fruit and olive trees or to restore buildings that have been destroyed. however, i have to repeat very strongly that it is not possible, via rural development policy, to compensate farmers for lost income. the second option is the new rural development programme 2007-2013, which includes measures for restoring agricultural production potential, as well as forestry potential, following natural disasters. it must be noted that interventions through these two options would be limited to reforestation and reconstruction of production potential, and again cannot be used to compensate for loss of income. i want to conclude with the possibilities that will be available within state aid schemes. a disaster like the forest fires in greece would normally be considered exceptional occurrences, which actually allows member states to grant support to compensate for material damage. nationally funded assistance to agriculture and forestry may be given following notification of a state aid scheme, and is subsequent to approval by the commission. i would also remind you that there is a much easier possibility, which is to use what we call de minimis state aid, which means that member states can pay farmers, with the new changes that have taken place, eur 6 000 and you can do that every three years. so, without asking anyone, you can actually pay direct to the farmer up to eur 6 000 to help immediately, if necessary.
i'm the deputy editor. i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you have received a specific draft programme for the reconstruction of the fire-affected areas. what would be the procedure for approving such a programme?
member of the commission. as i mentioned, you have two possibilities within the programmes. within the rural development programme, it is possible to find support for reconstruction to buy, as i said, new olive trees and new wine stocks. then you have the regional policy, which falls within the responsibility of my colleague commissioner hübner. i know that there is a direct link and very good contact where commissioner hübner has been nominated to hold the ropes. i am sure that lots of constructive discussions are ongoing.
member of the commission. madam president, it is good to be here again. i would like to thank the honourable member for the question concerning the funding for research. her question refers clearly in the first instance to research funded by the european union and in my answer i shall deal with these aspects. however, the need for increased investment in research at national as well as european level, private even more than public, is central to achieving the lisbon goals. at the same time we have to make sure that this money is well spent to ensure the maximum effect. the question is essentially in four parts and i shall reply to each of them in turn. at the same time, we must bear in mind that it is still very early to draw definitive conclusions and lessons from the sixth and seventh framework programmes. but before turning to the four aspects of the honourable member’s question, i should like to recall that european union cohesion policy, especially the european regional development fund and the european social fund, also makes an important contribution to the development of the european research area. the commission estimates that cohesion policy support for research and innovation will more than triple in the programming period 2007-2013 compared to 2000-2006. turning to the first element of the question, what are the sectors of research that the commission considers to be lagging behind in funding provisions under the plans 2007-2013? the commission believes that it has a good balance between the more top-down thematic areas in the programme and other, more bottom-up activities in framework programmes, such as frontier research and fellowships. it would not be appropriate to single out specific areas in particular need of funding. the closer you look at our 10 thematic priorities, the clearer it is that we need more funding and more research in practically all of them. but, to give you an example, i could mention the research infrastructures of pan-european interest, for which the final budget in framework programme 7 is much less than the commission had originally proposed. this is an important area where we have real added value in europe. we are seeking to combine funding from many sources, especially from national and regional sources and the european investment bank. it is also evident, following the first call for proposals of the european research council, that we are faced with serious oversubscription. we have received many more excellent proposals for fundamental frontier research than we have money to fund. looking at thematically orientated research, we can clearly see the need to better support research areas such as energy and climate change. here, member states can help not only by increasing investment in research but also by exploring ways of combining research efforts rather than allowing them to remain fragmented. this is also one of the areas which we advocated in our green paper on the european research area. turning to the general criteria, the thematic priorities for funding are set out in the cooperation specific programme. these research areas are the ones which will be supported through calls for proposals during the 2007-2013 period. our proposal was made after an extensive consultation with stakeholders during 2004, including a web-based consultation on the cooperation themes as well as input from industrial stakeholders through the european technology platforms. it was also based on an extensive ex-ante impact assessment. results from ex-post evaluation and monitoring exercises also form an important element in determining the priorities for research funding. this learning from past experience was indeed a key element in defining the priorities in the framework programme, as you suggest in the third part of your question to which now i turn. you asked how assessment of the usefulness and effectiveness of the research that was funded under the sixth framework programme influenced the selection of new research projects. here we have to distinguish two different ways of making that link. first, at the more detailed, operational level, we should note that the several thousand fp6 projects are monitored by the commission services. these colleagues are in frequent contact with the research community and their up-to-date insight into the progress achieved within this project is an important element in preparing the framework programme 7 work programmes. but, in the second place, at a more global level, in 2008 the commission will organise the ex-post evaluation of fp6. this assessment of the overall impact of the different research activities will be carried out by high-level experts. the results of this fp6 ex-post evaluation will be a major input in the forthcoming mid-term review of fp7 in the year 2010. finally, turning to the last part of the question, when considering the priorities for funding in each research sector, the topics to be funded are specified in the annual work programmes and the call for proposals. each year, we undertake consultation with the right variety of stakeholders in drawing up the work programmes. we also call on the assistance of external advisory groups, key specialists in the area, who provide input on ensuring that the work programmes contain the most essential areas of research, taking into account ongoing projects that have been funded in previous calls for proposals. once the individual proposals have been received in response to the calls, they are evaluated by expert peer reviews using a standard set of evaluation criteria. the proposals funded are those which receive the highest overall mark for the call or part of the call they address. in conclusion, i believe that it is fair to say that for research funded through community instruments we have a transparent system which allocates funding to the most relevant areas and also ensures it is then awarded to the best proposals.
thank you for your rather informative answer. i would like to ask whether international progress in research is taken into account when the various actions are decided upon, given that we live in a globalised world, and whether young people in europe are specifically funded to participate in research?
the commission's vice-president of course, mr president, i am prepared to speak. could you please contact me by letter on this subject so that i can speak to deutsche bahn and also see how we can improve things, because that is also part of our mission: not only to plan these large corridors, but to improve the situation already. so i'm expecting a little note from you that will allow us to act.
the commission's vice-president mr papadimoulis asked me, and i'm answering him. the commission has taken note of the decision of the greek arbitration panel of 13 july 2006 on public service obligations and the decision of 6 december 2006 on the relocation of olympic airways to athens international airport. the greek authorities have already informally consulted the commission on these compensation decisions, which have been the subject of a preliminary examination. on the basis of this preliminary examination and the documents provided at this stage by the greek authorities, the commission is still not in a position to decide on the nature of these decisions in the light of the community state aid rules. since these decisions would involve new aid, they should obviously be notified on the basis of article 88 (3) of the treaty. the commission has informed the greek authorities of this preliminary assessment and we expect them to respond. more generally, the commission makes every effort to ensure that the aid which it has ordered to be recovered is actually recovered. that's all the information i can give you, mr. papadimoulis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the olympic games are not cancelled. he owes the olympic games a lot of money. the total amount of the olympic games' claims on the greek state exceeds eur 1 billion. i ask you: does the commission intend to await, and above all to respect, the final judgments of the competent greek courts? i understand that next week you will meet with the greek minister responsible. you will discuss these matters. can you tell us where you agree and where you disagree with the greek government on this? there is great concern in greece and much of the public accuses the commission of favouring the liquidation of olympic society at a cheap price to the benefit of their competitors. what do you have to say to that ?
ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you! today, 26 september, is european day of languages and it is very important to recall here in the european parliament, in the temple of languages, the role that this day plays for the philosophy and essence of the european union and the work we are doing for a multicultural europe with respect for the specificities and cultures in the soul of our peoples.
mr president, the bureau will be informed of this matter, although it is something we have discussed many times and the answers are known.
the agenda includes the joint debate on the council and commission statements on migration, the report by mrs lilli gruber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft policy on legal migration (2006/2251 (ini)) (a6-0322/2007) and the report by mr javier moreno sánchez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the policy priorities to combat illegal immigration of third-country nationals (2006/2250 (ini)) (a6-0323/2007).
the committee on development and cooperation adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate lilli gruber and javier moreno sánchez on the excellent work they have done and the cooperation we have had together in drawing up the two reports. the commission of the european union has always been committed to the adoption of a genuine common immigration policy by the 27 member states. migration is inextricably linked to development and, given the demographic problem facing the european union today, legal migration is now part of the solution to many of europe's problems rather than just another problem. the opportunity to be consulted by the committee on development has enabled us, as the european parliament, to secure equal rights for both sexes, protection for the most vulnerable groups, such as women and children of migrants, and the possibility of information and language training for newly arrived migrants. it also takes into account the brain drain from regions of the world, such as african countries, which are in dire need of health workers and suffer whenever a doctor leaves his country to seek a better future in the european union. to this end, we welcome the commission's proposal to strengthen circular migration so that migrants can be repatriated after a certain period of time and thus transfer to their home country the knowledge and experience acquired in the member states of the european union. it is also necessary for the commission to provide more information on the legal framework covering the term 'cyclical migration'. on this point i would like to thank commissioner franco frattini for the sensitivity he has shown on the issue of immigration over the last two years and for his continued efforts to get the 27 member states to agree on a common immigration policy. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality, which drew up the report, is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation of women in the european union. madam president, the committee on women's rights and gender equality regrets that the communication on the draft strategy on legal immigration and the text we are called upon to vote on today make little mention of the problem of equality for women. we therefore call on the commission, the member states and the various council configurations with competence in this area to intensify their efforts to ensure that the right of migrant women who are subject to double discrimination is specifically safeguarded in the coordination of legal migration policies, and to combat illegal immigration which promotes networks of various forms of exploitation of vulnerable people, women and children. we stress the importance of a comprehensive approach to legal immigration policies that include integration measures with a two-way approach both to enhance acceptance by host societies and to strengthen the willingness of migrants to integrate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the fact that the social partners are not involved in the decision-making process. discrimination against the community of origin, mutilation, forced marriage, polygamy, honour crimes and all forms of violence must be combated and the legitimate exploitation of women's talents must be strengthened.
mr president, a few decades ago, millions of our fellow europeans emigrated to america, australia, south africa and even within europe. they weren't rich, they were escaping poverty. we demanded that they be welcomed and given rights. their remittances have supported our economies. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. they love the countries they have been to but they are allowed to love the countries they came from, without anyone feeling threatened by this double love. they have enhanced and boosted the economies of the countries they have taken and their cultural and democratic wealth. it is therefore clear that migration should not be treated primarily as a police phenomenon, let alone as a potential source of terrorism, as has come to be discussed in europe. immigration policy must be comprehensive and take account of a multitude of aspects: - first, improving channels for legal immigration; - secondly, combating illegal immigration, and in particular the inhumane trafficking of migrants, and respecting rights in detention centres; the only crime of these people is that they were born in poor countries or in war countries; - thirdly, the causes of migration: wars, poverty, underdevelopment, dictatorships; the european union must respond to these phenomena through its foreign and economic policies. - fourthly, reasons for the attractiveness of europe while at the same time combating illegal work; - fifth, the demographic, research, educational and economic needs of the european union; we need to attract labour; we need it. - sixth, respect for fundamental rights; - seventh, the creation of a europe which bridges peoples and cultures; strengthening our foreign policy and strength. few of these require police action. instead, they require politicians with foresight and courage, i am glad that the commission, from its initial emphasis on police action, is now moving towards a much better overall approach. i'm not sure i'm ready to go.
acting president of the council. - very good. i can tell you, mr president, mr president of the council, that the european union will do everything possible, through the diplomatic instruments at its disposal and in particular through the action of its special representative, to ensure that the current impasse in the field of constitutional reforms, in particular in the field of police reform, can be effectively overcome and the obstacles we have encountered overcome. that's our commitment. the council will of course also be aware of the proposals and suggestions which the special representative may make to us as a result of his presence on the ground. as the honourable member will appreciate, the council is aware of the complexity of the situation and above all of the urgent need to resolve the impasse we are currently witnessing.
acting president of the council. as you know, mr president, the council has repeatedly and systematically expressed its views and opinions on the accession processes or the european prospects of the various countries, particularly the balkan countries, and the council has clearly stated that there is a european perspective for the balkan countries. and as regards one, in this case croatia, we are already in the process of negotiating that country's accession to the european union. as i have said, in november, as usual, the commission will make a communication to the council in which it will report on the state of play of the negotiations, in particular the state of play of the negotiations with croatia, and will make its proposals. that will be the appropriate time for us to have a more thorough and up-to-date view of the state of the accession negotiations. of course, even if there are difficulties here and there, or problems, or delays, it seems to me, according to my assessment of the state of the negotiations, my personal assessment, that they have progressed at a good pace.
acting president of the council. as the honourable member will be aware, the european union has not currently agreed on any quantified target for investment in innovation. such a target would be almost impossible to define and implement, since innovation covers a wide range of activities that are very difficult to define and measure. the european union thus decided in 2002 to adopt an indicative quantitative target for r & d expenditure on research and technological development, called r & dt, i.e. the well-known barcelona target of 3%, since it is the r & dt actions internationally defined by the oecd frascati manual that are the easiest to measure and quantify. it should be noted that this objective has recently been taken as a desirable benchmark given the difficulties encountered in recent years in increasing private r & d effort in significant segments of the business sector. nevertheless, action to promote innovation and research is a very important priority in the european union's policy, and is carried out through various instruments such as the framework programme and the cip, i.e. the competitiveness and innovation framework programme, as well as through the structural funds. the seventh framework programme and the icp have been designed with the needs of smes in mind, the main beneficiaries of the icp, and the seventh framework programme introduced a minimum quota of 15% for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in research activities covered by the thematic priorities provided for in the specific programme 'cooperation'. it should be noted that support under the seventh framework programme for small and medium-sized enterprises can help to increase their competitiveness and their potential for innovation. mountain, island and very remote regions receive support from the structural funds and are also supported through the relevant thematic priorities of the 7th fp specific programme 'cooperation', in particular with regard to improving their transport, information, communications and energy supply situation. the research potential of the union's convergence and outermost regions should be unlocked under the specific programme 'capacities'. in addition to existing programmes and incentives, innovation will be further promoted by a number of initiatives currently under negotiation within the european parliament and the council such as the proposal to establish the european institute of innovation and technology, the eurostars initiative, actively involving innovative small and medium-sized enterprises and other initiatives under article 169 of the treaty and the joint technology initiatives provided for in article 171 thereof. in addition, the commission is currently preparing its proposal for a strategic action plan for set energy technologies based on a wide public consultation, which it intends to present before the end of 2007. in the same vein, i would also like to highlight the new approach to industrial policy in the context of sustainable development with a focus on climate change, in which innovation and the role of small and mediumsized enterprises in the european economy are key aspects. in all these initiatives, small and mediumsized enterprises will play a very important role, and some of them are also aimed at the particular interests of the regions mentioned by the honourable member, such as the 'bonus' initiative already planned, through which marine research in the baltic sea area should be coordinated. the portuguese presidency has been keen to pursue the 3% target for r & d expenditure, notably at the informal competitiveness council in lisbon in july, where the role of public and private investment in r & d and public policy measures that could also contribute to that target were discussed. the informal council to which i refer also dealt with the policy of small and mediumsized enterprises with particular emphasis on innovation and financing, internationalisation and energy efficiency. the portuguese presidency, by highlighting the role of the need for specific measures in the area of human resources in science and technology and the strengthening of measures in the area of the information society, also hopes to contribute to strengthening the conditions conducive to an increase in research and development and innovation efforts at european union level.
mr president, i would like to ask the council representative, whom i thank for his answer, whether the infrastructure of the member states and the preparation of good governance allow the development of this ambitious innovation programme and whether member states are being monitored when they implement any innovation programme support scheme.
acting president of the council. as you know, mr president, in march the council adopted a programme which is regarded as a leading programme in the world, both in energy matters and in climate change matters. and we have, the european union has, an almost historic responsibility, so to speak, as we leave for the bali conference which will set, we hope, the new post-kyoto 2012 co2 emissions targets. the european union has, of course, a responsibility to support and/or encourage the international community to set itself targets as ambitious as we have proposed for ourselves. we have therefore, mr president, already a very ambitious programme to implement at european union level. in the specific energy field, the question of energy saving is on the agenda, both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states themselves. i can tell you that in portugal - this is my direct experience - it is a matter of great importance and to which we have devoted a great deal of effort. but here too the question of investment in new technologies dedicated to the energy question was raised, as well as investment in science having to do with alternative energies. we have a lot to do. we hope that we can do what we have to do quickly and well, and we must of course concentrate now on the ambitious package, both on energy and on climate change, on which we have agreed.
acting president of the council. i should like to say to you, mr president, with your permission, that the question of the european institute of technology, its actual launch and its actual entry into operation, is a priority for the portuguese presidency. we shall therefore try to ensure that the institute can be set up by the end of the portuguese presidency. now, of course, the presidency acts, proposes, but it is up to the institutions of the union to approve the presidency's proposals to that effect. i can assure you that the presidency will try to act as quickly as possible. there are other matters and other issues which naturally fall within the responsibility of the council as a whole and the institutions, and we cannot of course forget that.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 18 june 2007 the council reiterated its position that the comprehensive proposal drawn up by the president, mr marti ahtissari, the united nations special envoy, constitutes the basis for the resolution of the kosovo question by means of a new resolution of the united nations security council and declared its readiness to support all efforts to ensure that the security council adopts that resolution in due course. as you know, consultations in the united nations security council on a new resolution are currently suspended, but the united nations security council is very attentive to this issue. in a statement in august this year, un secretary-general ban ki-moon highlighted the initiative of the contact group to conduct new negotiations between pristina and belgrade, now led by a troika of representatives of the european union, the russian federation and the united states of america. the secretary-general of the united nations has asked the contact group to submit a report to him by 10 december next. the intention of this new negotiating period is that the troika will play a facilitating role, with the parties proposing new ideas. on 29 july 2007, the secretary-general, high representative javier solana, as you know, appointed ambassador wolfgang ischinger as the european union's representative in the troika. the troika has so far met the parties separately on 10 and 11 august in belgrade and pristina, on 30 august in vienna and on 18 and 19 september in london. at the meeting of the ministerial contact group, to be held on 27 september in new york on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly, ministers will discuss the state of play of the negotiations and are expected to make a statement with a view to giving a strong impetus to this process. on 28 september, another separate troika meeting with the parties will also be held in new york, followed possibly by a first direct meeting between the parties on the same day. as javier solana has stressed, it is now essential that the parties cooperate constructively in this process and conduct substantive negotiations. as a conclusion to the troika process, the un secretary-general should report to the un security council on this issue. at this stage, as you will understand, it is still premature to predict the outcome of these processes.
mr president, just yesterday condoleezza rice declared that kosovo will become independent. the american scenario is clear: a unilateral declaration of independence by december and immediate recognition by the us. what is the council's position on this methodology? are you concerned about the growing destabilization of the wider region by albanian nationalism ? the council is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i read in the new york times that european diplomats are rushing to anticipate the council's position that it will be dragged behind the united states' position. why don't you tell us what the diplomats are saying in the council? we need a straight answer.
member of the commission. madam president, i thank all those present, especially ms záborská and the co-authors of the question, because i think it is very important, not only as a question, as a topic for our discussions, but also in terms of action in favour of those who need more specific assistance or treatment or conditions for their life in society, for education, training and so on. i especially underline what was said at the beginning: that we want to be the voice of those with these difficulties, and i think this is a very strong moral and political commitment. the commission is aware of the negative social and health consequences that these problems might have on affected individuals or families raising children affected by ‘dys’-related problems. we agree that measures should be taken to improve the everyday life of children and their access to education, information and culture. of course, the main responsibility for dealing with people with ‘dys’ problems falls on member states, but the commission, as well as european institutions, can support the action of member states. for example, our disability action plan 2003-2010 promotes access to support and care services for people with disabilities and their families. the commission promotes a level of service which strikes an appropriate balance between security, freedom of choice and independence of life. the commission work plans for 2005, 2006 and 2007 in the field of public health included specific reference to the need for further information and definition of indicators relating to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorders, cognitive retardation and disruption of motor, perceptual, language and socio-emotional functions. several calls for proposals have been published to support research on ‘dys’-related problems. however, the commission has so far failed to receive any proposal in these areas. the community programme progress provides support to a number of large european networks, including the european disability forum, as you know. we support the european agency for development in special needs education. the agency provides policymakers and professionals with relevant information on special needs education and facilitates the exchange of good practices. special education needs are also one of the general priorities of the lifelong learning programme and, as such, they must be considered a priority for all its actions because it is a general priority. the lifelong learning programme has a clear aim to integrate people with a range of special needs. concretely, this is done through funding cooperation projects to exchange, develop and improve practice in general, including on the design of pedagogical structures in ordinary and specialist education and by offering increased grants to disabled participants to fund any necessary extra support arrangements. furthermore, several research projects have been supported by the commission, including the neurodys project mentioned in the oral question. the commission also promotes access to information and communication technology (ict) and new technology in general for people suffering from ‘dys’-related problems. the ict part of the sixth framework research programme co-financed projects on e-accessible and assistive solutions. i just want to mention two projects in this regard: the agent-dysl project, which focused on developing the next generation of assistive reading systems and, secondly, the eu’s ‘for all’ project, which aimed to develop technologies to make education accessible to everyone, including people with dyslexia. the seventh framework research programme will continue to support ‘dys’-related projects or research, including as part of the health priority and as part of the e-accessibility priority. we recognise the importance of collecting relevant statistics. this was one of the very strong issues here. although the commission does not currently collect statistics on specific ‘dys’-related problems, eurostat provides eu-wide statistics on disability and social integration. following a special disability-oriented labour force survey in 2002, eurostat is currently in the process of developing an eu-wide survey model. the survey is part of the european health survey system and focuses on disabilities and on various aspects of social integration of people about 18 years old. we recognise difficulties encountered by people or families caring for people with disabilities, including with those with ‘dys’ problems. following up on our commitment in the roadmap for gender equality, in 2005 and 2006 we launched a consultation with social partners on reconciliation policies. the consultation covered a broad range of issues, including maternity leave, parental leave, paternity leave, adoption leave and a new type of leave to care for dependent family members. having finished the second phase of consultation in june 2007, the commission is currently engaged in an impact assessment process. depending on the outcome, the new proposals might be brought forward, possibly to 2008. the commission constantly monitors the transposition of eu anti-discrimination legislation at national level. directive 2000/78/ec, which prohibits discrimination in the field of employment and occupation, covers all citizens, including those suffering from ‘dys’-related problems. however, the commission believes that legislation should offer protection, not only to employees suffering from a disability but also to employees who care for a disabled dependent. in this regard, we follow with great interest the coleman case currently pending before the european court of justice. finally, i really want to say that this is primarily about real knowledge and awareness, and your contribution now is very helpful. it is a pity that it is so late, just before midnight. but, after raising proper awareness, i think we could focus more on implementation and concrete actions in favour of those in real need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, commissioner, for coming so late and for dealing so fully with the matter. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the commissioner responsible for health, who is responsible for taking action to recognise behavioural and learning disorders as health disorders, not as disabilities, is responsible for directing research to promote early diagnosis, medical methods of treatment and cure and making concrete proposals to research programmes so as to advance your own sector - the education sector - with special training of staff, special training of parents, special equipment of schools and various methods which use new technologies to enable measures to be taken to accompany and manage such disorders. the possibility of studying leads to training and vocational rehabilitation. i therefore see in your position the third commissioner, the commissioner responsible for employment, who should be concerned with measures to promote access to working life, social rights, opportunities for social integration, so as to avoid social exclusion for otherwise highly qualified people who have a special characteristic but do not have a disability. you mentioned the word 'disability' many times and you told us all the programmes relating to disability. but these are problems which can be tackled with minimal costs, minimal funding, only with care and organization, and by concentrating the best practices already available in the member states on a sufficiently wide area, without many new proposals. legal recognition is a basic prerequisite and enables access to health and education as well as to social benefits. the use of technical means and financial support for parents also contributes to the non-discrimination of the family, which suffers from the time the diagnosis of dyspraxia is made to the time it is corrected. i hope that our question will enable the commission to take action.
mr president, in addition to the 50th anniversary of the treaty establishing a united europe, we are also celebrating 50 years of progress in the area of guaranteeing equality between men and women, culminating in its horizontal application in all areas of action of the european commission and in dialogue with civil society. the hidden inequalities between men and women, which persist in the policies and practices of the member states of the european union, require analysis and evaluation of the negative situations that cause them. the report by my dear colleague mrs kauppi, to whom i congratulate her, therefore lists many actions to 'cure' discrimination against women. i would particularly stress the measures to promote equal participation of men and women in strengthening the family as a key actor for economic development, prosperity and, ultimately, social cohesion in the european union. gender equality should include cases of women who voluntarily, for a long or short time, wish to stay at home in order to provide their services to children, elderly and dependent persons without their stay outside the workplace resulting in discrimination in terms of pension and social rights. i am deeply disappointed, commissioner, that the situation of greek women has been reported in the press that you have brought an infringement action against my country for the abolition of the minimum age for women. why can't early retirement for daughters and mothers be in exchange for offering to the family? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. member states, the european union and the social partners can make good use of the newly established european alliance for the family to promote best practices and innovative approaches to family-friendly policies that are in line with national public policies and thus promote equality. the demographic problem of the european union requires equal opportunities for men and women. as regards parental leave, the directive on parental leave, which was agreed between the commission and the social partners, needs to be revised, and you have promised, commissioner, that this revision will take place in 2008. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome one. the productivity and development of the european union, commissioner, require the creation of a tool to control such discrimination. we hope your action will be immediate.
mr president, it is widely accepted that the present distribution of seats in the european parliament does not adequately represent the demographic reality in the member states and that the correlations are unfavourable for some medium and smaller countries. it is certainly a good thing that the report does not reduce the number of seats provided for by the treaty of nice. i should also point out, however, that in the case of greece, the increase in the number of seats from 22 to 23 would be perfectly legitimate, because the population of the country is as much as 10% higher than that of other countries with the same distribution of seats in parliament. but i should like to concentrate today on the various amendments tabled concerning the method of calculating the number of members. the total population of a country should not be estimated, but only its citizens. i am in favour of the concept of european citizenship, but i am totally against its application here. as a member of the european parliament, i feel that i represent a part of the population of my country who, without necessarily being citizens of greece or of europe, are raising our children, taking care of our elderly, building our homes, staffing our universities, contributing to the social security system, sending their children to our schools. the european parliament, the european council and the european parliament have been working together for a long time to ensure that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship, and that the european union's citizens are not excluded from the european union's citizenship.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all with regard to the question put by ms sudre concerning the ultraperipheral regions: there is no doubt that in a maritime policy we do not intend to formulate – as is clear, i think, from the blue paper, which has just been adopted, and the action plan – a one-size-fits-all policy. therefore, the specificities of peripheral regions and ultraperipheral regions in particular need to be taken into account. the other side of the coin is that the ultraperipherality offers the european union enormous advantages. it gives us a reach into other oceans to which we would otherwise not have had direct access. and, if i can quote fisheries as one example, the fact that you have ultraperipheral regions in the indian ocean, for example, like la réunion, is an example whereby we have a direct voice in the regional fisheries organisations that already exist and the ones that we are trying to promote for that sea. so, i certainly would encourage looking at the specificities of ultraperipheral regions. we also have to see to it that we maximise the advantages that these ultraperipheral regions can enjoy. and, yes, where we can use them as a laboratory, for example, for the development of renewable energies, we should certainly try and promote and encourage that at the same time, seeing to it that their vulnerabilities are not prejudiced in any way. concerning the question put by mr casaca concerning the ecosystem approach, i would like first of all to say that, yes, we in the directorate-general for fisheries and maritime affairs had commissioned a study by experts. it is a normal periodical exercise that we undertake, on how the common fisheries policy has operated, what the possible pitfalls are that have been encountered, in order that, from that exercise, we can learn from past experience and try to improve things. first of all, i have no problem with making this study available to the committee on fisheries. we know that it is very critical, but we accept that criticism because at the end of the day we are trying to implement the 2002 reforms of the common fisheries policy. we are still, in 2007, in the initial phases of real implementation of the 2002 reforms by moving in the direction of multiannual management and recovery plans, by moving in the direction of more ecosystem based management of fisheries. we have inherited a large number of years of management of fisheries, in a way whereby it was overtaken by the scientific advances, by the enormous increase in the number of vessels that went beyond any limits of capacity so to speak as a counter to what can sustainably be caught. and we have to see to it that we redress the situation and bring about a system of sustainable fisheries, measures and initiatives again which i hope will have the full backing of parliament: like a discards policy; measures and initiatives with regard to multiannual management of fisheries; management of fisheries by having more closed areas, closed seasons – these are all measures which go very much in the direction of the ecosystem approach to fisheries and the maximum sustainable yield. we have had the first example of a management plan on the basis of maximum sustainable yields in the plaice and sole management plan which was adopted in council only last june. so, we hope to continue moving in that direction in order to regain proper management of fisheries on the basis of the ecosystem approach. on the question put by mr morillon, i would like, first of all, to assure him that the integrated approach towards maritime affairs will not be financed through the european fisheries fund. the european fisheries fund for 2007-2013 has been committed. we have received the national strategic plans and the operational programmes from virtually all member states, we are looking into them and they are directed towards fisheries and aquaculture obviously. however, with regard to maritime affairs, one has to look at other sources of financing. i would say that the most logical source of financing could be through the structural funds, though the regional funds, because, at the end of the day, coastal areas are regions of the european union. therefore, one needs to create more focus on the specific needs of coastal areas and of the surrounding seas so that, in that way, one would redirect, as necessary, funding for initiatives and projects, which would very much go in the direction of establishing the proper tools for the management of an integrated maritime policy.
the commission's communication on the future common maritime policy of the european union, madam president, is moving in the same anti-worker vein. it includes new measures to strengthen competitiveness, increase the profits of the large shipping groups and signals the intensification of the attack against workers. its main objectives are: to strengthen the tendency to concentrate ships and capital in large shipping groups; to fully liberalise maritime transport and services in the related sectors; to give the european union institutions a strategic role in order to express the interests of capital in an integrated manner in international organisations; to make sweeping changes in labour relations; to downgrade and privatise maritime training to produce cheap labour; to create multi-tasking seamen; to introduce bureaucratic directives and regulations which do not improve the safety of ships and the protection of human life at sea. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. what is the commission's position on this matter, what measures are it going to take - and i conclude, madam president - on a phenomenon for which you may not be solely responsible, namely the encroachment of monopolistic tourist groups and individuals along the coastlines of the member states.
there is a great deal of interest from colleagues in another round of questions and i think that this important debate should be used to its full advantage. i would like to ask you, commissioner, if you could reply shortly so that we can give the floor to other colleagues and get on with it.
mr president, since i have not been present since the beginning of the debate, i am not aware of the priorities you have set.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, with regard to the question that was raised by ms doyle: yes, i would like to reiterate the fact that we have received significant support from the scientific community. the aberdeen declaration was very welcome, and ireland itself was extremely supportive. on the remark that was made, i would like to stress that this is not my initiative: it is a commission decision that has been adopted and, irrespective of the persons involved, there will certainly be continuity. if, in the first two years, we manage to register some success, i am sure that the new commission will be more than willing to take up those successes. so it is a crucial two-year period, where we need to see that the initial seeds for a future maritime policy do actually start to grow. in that way, we can guarantee that future commissions, with the support of the european parliament, with the support of the committee of the regions and, i am sure, with the support of the council of ministers, will be able to bring this maritime policy to fruition. on the second question that was raised regarding inland waterways, there is no doubt that inland waterways are a very important part of the whole concept of a maritime policy, just as the coasts and the coastal areas are a very integral part of a maritime policy. in fact, next week vice-president barrot is going to present a package which covers internal waters, including a ports policy and therefore going into internal ports as well. so the whole parameters concerning waterways and ports – even inland ports – are part of this package that will be presented next week. on the question raised by mr ortuondo larrea concerning military activities, whether they are to be included in the community policy, one needs to underline the fact that, here, we are entering into a very sensitive area concerning the sovereignty of member states. therefore, one needs to be careful. if you want this maritime policy to succeed, we should do it hand in hand with the member states. where member states are willing to take steps in the direction, for example, of joint activities with regard to national coastguard services, concerning questions on the environment, questions with regard to fisheries, questions with regard to illegal immigration, questions concerning drug trafficking and trafficking of human beings, then in those instances i think that there is a lot of scope for having a system of national coastguards coordinated in a more effective and efficient way by, for example, sharing the assets that different member states enjoy, by exchanging data and by creating necessary tools, including for example sea mapping, which could be an asset for coastguard and other activities. but, on the other hand, if we go into very sensitive military aspects, then that could be more difficult to handle. my underlying message is, if we want an integrated maritime policy to succeed, we have to do so hand in hand with the member states, who, after all, have the primary responsibility for ensuring that the necessary instruments are in place for such a policy to succeed. on the question concerning the baltic sea, there is no doubt, as i said in a previous reply, the maritime policy needs to take into account the specific features or characteristics of the different maritime regions of the european union. therefore, if there are particular problems, as there are, with regard to the baltic sea, then the maritime policy has to create the tools in order to tackle those problems of the baltic sea. therefore, if there are particular ecological problems in the baltic sea that need to be addressed and that can be addressed in some way or other, then we should do our utmost in order to do so. for example, with regard to fisheries, we are taking measures in order to try to attain, against various odds, sustainable fisheries in the baltic. we are also taking measures with regard to the baltic in order to try to reverse the problems that there are concerning maritime transport traffic routes through the baltic sea. therefore an integrated approach to maritime affairs would certainly mean that we look at all these problems and try to bring about more coordination between the different stakeholders, between the different member states and also third countries like russia, with regard to the baltic, so that in that way we can achieve a better result with regard to the management of the different sectoral areas concerning the baltic.
i thank you, commissioner, and i apologize to the members who were not able to speak, but it seems that we should be giving more time to such discussions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 october 2007. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the murder of women (feminicides) in central america and mexico and the role of the european union in combating this phenomenon (2007/2025(en)) (a6-0338/2007).
member of the commission. i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful for this really important debate, and i would like to thank the rapporteur once again. i have already said that as a woman and as commissioner for external relations, this is of course a very important subject for me, and it is absolutely right - and i have said this before - that this is a general subject which unfortunately affects us all in all countries. and in the european union, but of course much more in the countries that are poor, that don't have the right socioeconomic conditions, and where, above all, not only don't have a good police system, which means that there are already difficulties in intelligence, but also, most of the time, don't have a good justice system. because that's very important, too. we also know that in many of the countries that we have spoken about here - central america, mexico, but also in many other countries - there is still the phenomenon of corruption and here mafias sometimes cooperate with personalities of the judiciary, so the intelligence rate is still very poor. i agree with much of what has been said here: firstly, legislative measures, secondly, measures in implementation. and i can tell you again from the commission's point of view that we are already working on these things with our programmes. but you also have to take into account the time factor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals. and it's something we're all going to have to deal with, unfortunately. of course we must take preventive measures, and i have just highlighted this projovenes programme, for example, because it is such an interesting programme. and if you, honourable members, ever come back to el salvador or guatemala - but especially el salvador - take a look for yourselves! that's a little bit of good news. i can only say that we will of course continue our programmes, we will continue this very critical dialogue with mexico, but i am happy to admit, as mr salafranca said, that mexico itself must be prepared to address this issue and to put it on its own agenda. but if the information is too late, it is very difficult to establish all the elements in retrospect. that is why it is very important that all the methods of modern police technology are discussed here, because information is the first factor, justice is the second, and of course the question of general non-discrimination in a society is also crucial. all i can say is that i'm sure you'll have me by your side.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 11 october 2007. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on important political issues.
mr president, i am glad to see that we all want both transparency and control. we all want the european union's money, which comes from taxpayers, to be saved and to go to the real beneficiaries of aid. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. however, it is clear that the measures envisaged must enter into force after the adoption of the regulation concerned and relate to the following financial year. we believe that this clarification is absolutely necessary and that is why we tabled an amendment to that effect. the amendment aims to make it clear that the measures to suspend the monthly payments provided for in articles 17a and 27a of regulation 1250/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy will not apply before 16 october 2008. we therefore think it right that they should not be retrospective. in conclusion, i would like to point out that we all want: - first, the protection of taxpayers' money; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. - fourthly, to be just, as is the case throughout the world; the laws do not and should not have retroactive effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by saïd el khadraoui, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a decision of the council and of the representatives of the governments of the member states of the european union, meeting within the council, on the signing and provisional application of the air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (com (2006) 0169 final c6-0210/2007 2006/0058 (cns)) (a6-0320/2007).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the central core of the european union's external aviation policy is the establishment of an open airspace between the european union and the united states of america. it is a policy that is fully integrated into the satisfaction of the needs of capital. it is being used as a means of pressure and blackmail to create two or three monopoly airline groups within the european union which will have the sole control of international air transport, while the remaining airlines will be regional in nature and will be restricted to the member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the negotiations with the united states of america and the subsequent agreement have been marked by friction over state subsidies to airbus and boeing, the abolition of cabotage on us domestic flights and the refusal of the us government to allow the participation or even the acquisition of us airlines by european carriers. the agreement reflects the necessary level of compromise between the european union and the united states. it is far from the need to satisfy the needs of the people. it will act as a catalyst for the trend towards concentration through acquisitions and mergers of airlines. in all of this, serious problems remain with regard to the protection of personal data, but also with regard to the protection of the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i have observed over the last few years a frantic attempt on the part of the europeans to sign an aviation agreement with the united states. but while i noticed a great willingness on our part, i was also struck by the unwillingness i saw on the part of the americans. if the americans want to get a lion's share of the deal, then we must warn the europeans to be ready to hand over a blank check. but these agreements, madam president, are not just about machines, interests and companies. these agreements concern people, people travelling from europe to the united states, including greeks, who are excluded from other europeans and have much to say about the difficulties they face in obtaining a visa to visit the united states and also about what they face when they arrive in the united states, where they are subject to checks and investigations as if they were potential terrorists. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the agreements signed between governments, madam president, or between parliaments, if they do not touch the hearts and souls of the peoples, the people of europe, will be extremely short-lived and utterly unsuccessful, and i would like to include this in our own reservations in the new negotiating effort. the agreements must be based on equality, fairness and reciprocity.
the commission's vice-president madam president, i thank all the members who have spoken. i would first like to say, in reply to your rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, that it can still be said that the first phase resulted in a balanced agreement. in fact, there was a commitment from the united states to negotiate the second phase. there is even an obligation to start negotiations within 60 days of provisional application. the european side retaliated. we can withdraw certain concessions if the second phase does not meet european interests. that is a major point. the commission has already started a debate with the member states, in the framework of the special negotiating committee, to define the negotiating strategy for the second phase. you have stressed, and mr jarzembowski has also stressed, the need to define a good negotiating strategy. of course, i intend to involve you, to involve parliament, so that we can really negotiate with the greatest efficiency. the truth is that, as mr jarzembowski said, there are opportunities for european companies today that must be seized. this agreement allows for a wider choice of services, reduced prices, creates jobs and already allows us to coordinate measures that may affect passengers safety and security problems and, eventually, one stop security and, of course, in environmental matters. i want to reply to mrs ludford that the pnr is not part of the airline agreement. any decision or action taken in the context of the pnr shall be consistent with the terms of the agreement. but the question of the pnr must be seen in its context and my colleague mr frattini is aware of your concerns in this respect. it is true that you have stressed the problem of security and it is true that this dialogue must really be initiated within the framework of the joint committee on the agreement in order to develop solutions in a positive way. both parties are working to maintain a high level of safety, which does not penalise air services and passengers. the transport security and coordination group must of course be able to provide, on the basis of this agreement, concrete answers to your concerns, which i have of course noted with great attention. i would also like to say a word, if you will, about two problems, do we not, which should be able to find gradual improvements and probably solutions: the problem of safety and the problem of the environment. in this respect, on the environmental problem, we obviously want an integrated and comprehensive approach to the challenge of climate change and, as you know, i said it earlier and i will say it again, we all defended the emissions trading system in montreal at the international civil aviation organisation, which is a market-based system that seems to be the most effective solution. at the moment we have faced rejection from the united states and also from some asian countries. we believe, however, that this does not prevent cooperation. you know that in the cleansky project we have a growing cooperation with the united states. the atlantic interoperability initiative to reduce emissions is interesting. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. what i would like to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are obviously faced with the need to succeed in the second stage. it will take strong pressure, unwavering commitment from the europeans to get this second phase, which is obviously very important, because it would really allow us to complete this open skies agreement. you can be sure that parliament will be very much involved in a negotiation which is difficult, but which, as i said earlier, will be opened in good time, since we signed the first part of the agreement only in so far as there was this second stage. i am very grateful to parliament for its support, which seems to me to be very broad and solid and we will still need this parliamentary support to complete this agreement and to make this second stage a success.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by anne e. jensen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on airport capacity and ground services: for a more efficient policy [2007/2092 (ini) ] (a6-0349/2007).
in writing. the european communities group opposes the lamassoure and severin report because it further reinforces the reactionary character of the european parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one year before the opening of the olympic games in beijing, alarming messages are being sent to the world public daily. this time it is not about human rights or environmental pollution, but about the decision of the organizing committee and the relevant authorities of the people's republic of china to ban all kinds and forms of religious prayer by the participants in the olympic games. in violation of the agreements signed by the chinese authorities with the international olympic committee, and which are observed by the olympic games, the symbols of religions such as the bible, the new and old testaments, places of prayer, even the crucifix as a necklace around the neck of athletes, will be banned. as a christian, i am deeply saddened and hope that the international community and the european union will prevent the implementation of this unprecedented measure by the 2008 olympic games organising authority in time. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, today the european union's website reports that olaf, in cooperation with the austrian authorities, has dismantled a ring of illegal imports of clothing and footwear of chinese origin, and that the damage to the community budget amounts to eur 200 million. in view of this fact, this news - which is not an isolated phenomenon but a pan-european phenomenon - i would like, and i invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to send a message to the commission to intensify customs controls, extend import restrictions beyond this year and make trade defence measures more effective in footwear imports.
mr president, in the european union, 650,000 people die every year from smoking-related causes, as if we were at war. of these, 80,000 are due to secondhand smoke. in tobacco, 4,000 substances have been detected, 50 of which are carcinogenic the medical community has documented the adverse and even deadly effects of smoking for decades. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat tobacco use, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. to do this, strong legislation is needed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. control and strictness at the point of sale. we owe it to the 70% of the citizens of the european union who do not smoke and to the vast majority of smokers who want to stop smoking.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal we are about to vote on aims to achieve a high level of protection of human health and the environment by establishing community standards for the sustainable use of pesticides and rules for their placing on the european market. i believe that by supporting the environment committee's proposal for a 20% reduction in the use of pesticides at european level, we are sending a strong message that we must strengthen controls on the rational use of pesticides and, above all, promote research into safer alternative methods of plant protection. at the same time, the proposal to abolish the system of zones and compulsory mutual authorization is a balanced position which, taking into account the concerns of farmers and industry, seeks to give the possibility to as many member states as they wish to apply higher levels of environmental protection, in accordance with their local conditions. finally, i would like to refer to the specific needs of protecting secondary uses and i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the proposal for the creation of a european fund to promote research. in this way we will ensure the welfare of farmers, but also the preservation of our particular national products which are part of the european agricultural tradition and a strong asset of the european agricultural economy.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the issue we are discussing today from a political point of view is the balance between two objectives - as the rapporteur, mr corbett, has said - on the one hand, the technical issues, how to achieve better technical adaptation of the translation and saving resources, and on the other hand, the question of ensuring the greatest possible pluralism, multilingualism and transparency in the work of parliament. i should like to say that, particularly as regards language, in a political assembly such as ours, and indeed a multinational political assembly, language is of great importance. it is not just an instrument of understanding, it is a vehicle, i would say, of culture, of the expression of ideas, which it is very important to preserve and therefore the debate on equality and the coverage of all issues by all languages on a completely equal footing should not be brought up by this technical issue. i should also like to say that there is another practical issue here, which is how it is covered in relation to the economy. we're having some problems. the first problem is the degradation of the written word, which has been mentioned and which matters. i think in politics we should preserve the written word. the second problem to be taken into account is the trace left by the work of our parliament, and the third - and i conclude, madam president - problem is how the work of our parliament can be directly accessible to the public, and i am not sure that the public always has access to the internet.
member of the commission. mr president, i am really pleased to be able to discuss with you the contribution of taxation and customs policy to the lisbon strategy. a major priority of the european union is to improve its competitiveness while preserving its social model. taxation policy has a major role to play in helping to achieve growth and employment objectives. i welcome the essential message of your report, which is one of support for the commission’s initiatives in the tax area. in particular, it encourages increased efforts concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), the home state taxation pilot scheme proposal, the strategy ensuring better coordination of member states’ tax systems particularly in the field of exit taxation and cross-border loss relief, the work undertaken by the joint transfer pricing forum, the strategy to combat tax fraud, the vat package, the reduced vat rates on labour intensive services and environmental taxation. all these files are extremely important. they are the core of the commission’s approach to tax policy and many of them have been discussed in several committees of the european parliament. it is clear that european companies deserve a system of corporate taxation adapted to the degree of their actual and potential economic integration at the scale of their cross-border activities in europe. this is one of the keys to their future competitiveness. it is also essential that other direct tax obstacles find a solution by coordination and not only through costly litigation. there is only one area where i cannot follow you. this is in paragraph 17 of the wagenknecht report, as it stands now, where it asks for the suppression of minimum rates for excise duties and the replacement of current community legislation in this domain by a code of conduct. we discussed these elements in this house when dealing with the proposal on alcohol taxation and, with all due respect, i have got to say that the commission has not changed its mind. community legislation on excise duties in general has an important role to play in order to reduce distortion in the internal market, to protect public health and to gear consumption patterns towards more environmentally sustainable behaviour. the commission strongly believes that minimum rates are necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market by providing a safety net for member states which ensures that all member states actually apply excise duties and that the levels are meaningful. i hope that the tabled amendment which aims at changing paragraph 17 will be endorsed by a majority of members. i would like to conclude with three messages. firstly, you all know that my services are working very hard to table a legislative proposal on the ccctb which i intend to present to you after the summer break in 2008. secondly, in the vat field, the commission fully supports the portuguese presidency in its efforts to reach agreement on the vat package and also to advance substantially the broader debate on vat rates before the end of the year. we can also work to ensure adoption of the proposal for prolonging certain derogations in new member states on reduced vat rates. in addition, we will continue our intense efforts to combat vat fraud and we will soon come forward with a proposal on the vat treatment of financial services that will provide the sector with more legal certainty and with modernised rules. thirdly, we remain committed to a system of minimum rates in excise duties in order to reduce distortion and to promote fair competition in the internal market to contribute to the protection of public health and to the environment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, the owninitiative report by mrs wagenknecht, who had the political audacity to highlight in her draft report the redistributive and social dimension of tax policy, is one of the most important reasons for the fact that the debate on tax policy can be opened up at european level. the commitment to the lisbon objectives, the rules of the stability and growth pact, the obligation to manage and redistribute tax revenues in a way that is consistent with the objectives of cohesion, employment and the completion of the internal market, all point to a political issue: that member states' tax policies can no longer be based solely on national criteria, but that tax dialogue is necessary to further promote tax coordination at european level. in the context of such a dialogue, where there was considerable cooperation between the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups, we focused on the following key points: firstly, the question of tax competition. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. in the absence of common rules on tax policy, the existence of tax competition with a low tax rate supply and demand creates problems. however, as in the case of the other sectors of the internal market, tax competition can ensure the competitiveness and improve the productivity of national economies, and of the european economy as a whole, when it is limited by those necessary rules which prevent harmful competition from developing. secondly, the relationship between direct and indirect taxation: there has been a tendency in recent years for member states to increase indirect taxation in order to cover their budget deficits. but this is a burden on consumers and not a check on the market. the report seeks to identify the safety nets which will allow a balanced combination of direct and indirect taxes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's efforts and the problems in the ecofin are well known, but above all as the european parliament we must have a close cooperation with the national parliaments to discuss this major budgetary policy.
in writing. there are serious gaps in the oligological report which underestimate the importance of the issue. environmental protection legislation is a compromise between the need to protect the environment and the demand of big business to maximize their profits at all costs, making the 'competitiveness' of eu multinationals a top priority over all others. for example: the kyoto protocol, in which trade in pollutants is at the forefront, the whole legislative framework facilitates the use and extension of mutants. the legislation to control to ban the use of chemicals in consumer products took 40 years to complete, from 1967 (directive 67/458/eec) to 2007, when the reach regulation came into force, with many exceptions. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs containing dangerous substances. the 'reverse' evolution of biofuels, at the expense of food crops. however, the anti-environmental action of multinationals is allowed, with some fines, which are a small part of the additional profits they derive from the destruction of the environment, legitimizing the "who has money can destroy". we consider that this is a serious omission, that is to say a brief but very substantial and useful reference to these matters.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the chairman of the committee on budgets, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs who have presented a budget in this chamber today which is clear in its political objectives but at the same time within the limit of 0.98% of gdp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament stresses in paragraph 24 of its resolution the need for the commission to adopt as soon as possible the operational national programmes of the european agricultural fund for rural development and the structural funds. the timing is particularly important, especially after the recent widespread natural disasters in the countries of the south - and particularly in greece - where the necessary resources must be secured in time to repair the damage. the second point i would like to make is the recent crisis in cereal prices, which has caused disruption to the market and to agricultural incomes. the community budget is being saved. i would like to stress, however, that under no circumstances can these savings be used for other policies, not just the cap, such as the management of crises in the agricultural sector.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i fully agree with your wishes and i can tell you that my dissatisfaction is to see that even when we adopt initiatives, the member states do not put them into practice. the idea of a single european emergency telephone was to be put into practice by each member state by the end of september. we are at the end of october and only four member states have an operational system; 17 others took action but were left behind. the other proposal we want to make is that of closer cooperation to pursue what is commonly called 'sex tourism'. unfortunately, there are many european citizens who go on what appear to be tourist trips to other parts of the world to commit horrific acts of paedophilia, and i agree that international cooperation must be strengthened in this regard. i agree with you - and unfortunately we have evidence - that missing children are often destined for organ trafficking. this applies not only to the region you know best, but unfortunately also to some regions very close to the european union such as the balkans, the eastern dimension, the black sea region. unfortunately, organ trafficking is a reality, not to mention the discovery of the trafficking of adult and child organs from the far east and south-east asia, to say that of course even if this is a matter which so far the national governments have not been very willing to entrust to community competence, also thanks to the adoption of the agreement on the new institutional treaty, it will be able in the near future to be conducted more effectively by the european union.
i would like to ask the commissioner, madam president, whether he is sure that births of children are registered in all the member states and whether the number of children who cross the european union's borders is recorded, so that their possible disappearance or the use of their organs can be identified.
member of the commission. that is not an easy question. the commission condemns all terrorist attacks as criminal and unjustifiable under any circumstances. having said that, we regret the suffering caused by those actions. turkey faces continual cross-border terrorist attacks from the pkk, which is on the eu’s list of terrorist organisations, as you are aware. the commission understands turkey’s need to protect its citizens but we continue to urge turkey and iraq to tackle the problem through cooperation between the relevant authorities and by respecting international law. in this context, the recent bilateral agreement between turkey and iraq on the fight against terrorism is a welcome step. the eu and turkey have regularly reiterated that they remain committed to the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of iraq. we expect turkey to continue to play a constructive role in order to reach those objectives and promote regional cooperation. however, let us take into account the pressure from the turkish public, which is faced with killings of soldiers and civilians in the south-east of the country almost every week. the government has to show its willingness and ability to take more effective action. as many of our member states know well, it is very difficult to tackle terrorists effectively. the turkish authorities are understandably trying to engage the us, iraqi and iraq’s kurdish authorities in their efforts. it is the only way. the resolution passed in parliament and the building-up of a credible threat of intervention should be seen as a part of that strategy.
vice-president of the commission. it has been drawn to the attention of the honourable member that the detailed answers provided below relate only to the commission, which is of course by far the major employer amongst european institutions. one of the purposes of directive 1999/70/ec concerning the framework agreement on fixed-term work is to establish a framework to prevent the abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts or relationships. to prevent abuse, clause 5(1) obliges member states, where there are no actual legal measures to prevent abuse, to introduce one or more of the following measures to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term contracts:(a) objective reasons justifying the renewal of such contracts and relationships;(b) the maximum total duration of fixed-term contracts or relationships; (c) the number of renewals of such contracts or relationships. the rules governing the employment of staff in the european institutions are laid down in the staff regulations, which were discussed with staff representatives before being adopted by the council. the european institutions are thus bound by law to respect the provisions of these staff regulations. the staff regulations allow the european institutions to recruit three main types of staff: permanent officials, temporary agents and contract agents. temporary agents and permanent officials occupy a post in the establishment plan. there is no limit to the level of responsibility which permanent officials and temporary agents can exercise. the situation for contract agents is different. they do not occupy a post in the establishment plan and they must work under the supervision of a permanent official or a temporary agent. there are two distinct categories of contract agents. one category of contract agent was created to perform tasks which are non-core and which do not necessarily need to be performed by an official. such contract agents can be offered permanent contracts so their tasks can be considered as permanent in nature. the spirit of directive 1999/70/ec is followed for such staff as they are generally offered a first contract for a fixed term, an extension for a fixed term and a third contract for an indefinite period. in some cases a permanent contract can be offered directly upon recruitment. there are currently around 2 300 such contract agents working for the commission around the world, mainly in delegations, representations and administrative offices. a second category of contract agents exists to cover temporary or specialist needs not covered by existing posts, and to substitute staff temporarily absent, among others on maternity or parental leave. by limiting to three years the maximum total duration of successive, fixed-term employment contracts in any one institution, the staff regulations give de facto effect to clause 5(1)(b). such contract agents represent approximately 15% of the total staff. it is clear that permanent officials are the mainstay of the commission staff. contract agents provide valuable support on a temporary basis to the work of commission officials. there are currently around 3 200 such contract agents working for the commission in its different sites.
madam president, i would like to ask the commissioner - and i thank him for his answer - whether contractors, assistants as he has said, have prior rights and can be more qualified than successful candidates in competitions that have not yet been decided.
member of the commission. thank you for your kind words. you are right that we must be very careful in the review of the state aid guidelines, because that training, which contributes to broadening the scope of workers in europe, should indeed be allowed. but that requires facts, and that means that in this case we have gone back to the interested parties and stakeholders to get more information from them.
member of the commission. climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time; it hardly needs restating here. it is not a trade issue first and foremost, but there are areas where trade can help. that is why the commission wants the doha round to deliver liberalisation of environmental goods and services and also sees scope for the new generation of free trade agreements to help facilitate sustainable trade. the commission is aiming to negotiate an ambitious and comprehensive post-2012 climate framework. if we succeed in including all major players, we will have gone some way, the furthest we could, to obtaining a level playing field for eu industry. that also means that the carbon leakage – the displacement of pollution from one place to another – that might otherwise flow from a failure to reach agreement will be avoided. our aim is to include all major polluters in a proportionate way and not to frighten away partners from the negotiating table in bali, and later on, by preparing trade measures for imports at this stage. we should rather address the free rider issue when, and only if, it actually arises. a well-designed trade policy can help the world deal with climate change by generating the wealth needed to pay for the mitigation and adaptation measures required. investment in trade, in both low-carbon goods and services, can carry skills and climate-friendly technology throughout the global economy, helping to address climate change at global level and in the most cost-efficient manner. throwing that away would be doing a disservice to climate change policy. it should not be forgotten that our approach to climate change policy has helped put european industry at the forefront when it comes to environmental low-carbon technology. the eu has a considerable first-mover advantage as a result. the stern report made clear that combating climate change makes economic sense, in addition to the numerous societal benefits, because the costs involved are lower than the costs of inaction. trade policy can support climate change objectives by minimising those costs and generating part of the finance required and by fostering regulatory frameworks that support investment and trade in low-carbon goods, services and technology.
madam president, the commissioner, mr mandelson, does indeed honour question time. he is not satisfied with formal answers. today, commissioner, we have adopted the new framework for the placing of plant protection products on the market. the introduction of this framework will have an impact on primary agricultural production and, by extension, on the european food industry. can you assure us that imported products are subject to effective controls to ensure that they meet the strict standards imposed on domestic production?
member of the commission. i am not quite sure what the honourable member means by the ‘liberalisation of our trade policy’. by definition, trade can only take place when markets are opened and trade flows are, in effect, being liberalised. trade does not take place behind closed borders or where economies are being converted into fortresses, so of course the commission seeks to promote the liberalisation of trade. the global europe trade policy review and strategy that was presented and agreed by the commission and the member states a year ago sets out very clearly the interests of the european union, which are to maintain open markets at home, to promote and use multilateral and bilateral negotiations, to open markets abroad and to use effective trade defence measures to tackle unfair trade or unfair competition. those are the three legs of our strategy; each is equally important. the review of the third leg of that tripod is taking place after quite dramatic changes have taken place in the world economy, and indeed in the european economy, since the last review of our trade defence measures took place, which was over 10 years ago. we have a responsibility to make sure that our measures are operating as well as they could be and that they command consensus and support and solidarity amongst our member states. when that weakens, the trade defence measures become less easy or possible to use. it is in an effort to rebuild and restore that consensus, support and solidarity amongst our member states that we are undertaking this review.
madam president, to what mr caspary has asked, i would like to add when we will have access to the evaluation of the questionnaire on the green paper. the european anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures, commissioner, represent less than 0.45% of the value of total imports into the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
mr president, the problem of large increases in bread, milk, potatoes and other foodstuffs - which in some member states are ten times the current inflation rate - makes the problem very acute, especially for the low-income earners who spend the largest proportion of their budget on food. the problem did not arise suddenly. we know that the food sector is concentrated and controlled by a few companies with significant profits at the expense of producers and consumers, since consumer prices are many times higher than producer prices due to the large number of intermediaries or the monopoly of the market. so we have today the growing global demand for food and feed, together with the use of cereals and oilseeds in the production of biofuels, which is not done for environmental reasons but is part of the profitable plans of the multinational oil companies. we have the degeneration of prices and intervention in cereals and the compulsory agricultural levies because of the cap. all this has drastically reduced stocks and production in the european union, together with, of course, bad weather conditions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. these were the reasons for the increase in food and feed prices. these increases have worsened the situation of workers, increasing the number of malnourished people and bankrupting small and medium-sized farmers. in greece, livestock farmers are in desperation - and in action - demanding substantial aid for their survival. the decision of the council of ministers on 26 september to lift the compulsory agricultural levy and suspend the import duties on cereals, and the other measures you mentioned, madam commissioner, will alleviate the problem somewhat, but they do not address it, because they are half measures, that is to say, insufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the over-production of cereals.
member of the commission. mr president, i am very pleased that we have been able to find a solution agreeable to all on the important issue of access to medicines for poor, developing countries. our debate during the last months has been fruitful and i would like to thank parliament for the intensity and the quality of our exchanges. the commission has always been receptive to the concerns expressed by parliament and, indeed, shares most of them. that is why the commission was at the forefront of the debate on trips and access to medicines in the wto. i have seen in this debate an opportunity for the commission to clarify its position on a number of issues. we all agree that the amendment of the trips agreement is one part of the solution among many others to the problem of access to medicines. obviously, other measures are needed, in particular to improve health care systems and the infrastructures, notably in poor, developing countries. some members fear that the mechanism will not work. this is certainly too early to assert. in our regulation implementing the waiver, and together with parliament, we agreed to evaluate it three years after its entry into force, and we will do it. we also support the work of the intergovernmental working group with the who to explore other measures to further improve access to medicines. the commission has been able to reaffirm its attachment to the doha declaration on the trips agreement on public health and its support for the flexibilities contained therein. similarly, this debate allows me to dispel any misunderstanding about what the commission is doing in the economic partnership agreements with acp countries. let me confirm that, in those agreements and in other future bilateral and regional agreements with poor developing countries, the commission is not asking and will not ask for provisions which could affect access to medicines or undermine the trips flexibilities contained in the doha declaration on the trips agreement and public health. thanks to this frank and direct debate parliament is now in a position to give its assent to the commission proposal. the european community will then join the other wto members which have already accepted the trips agreement. this acceptance will enable the ec to continue to play a leading role in the wto on the issue of access to medicines. to conclude, i would like to insist that access to medicines remains a priority for the commission and i am willing to continue to work in a constructive spirit with parliament on this matter in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, as rapporteur for the european people's party i should like to thank mr sousa and the other members for the constructive cooperation we have had, which has enabled us to maintain, despite the differences between the political groups, a united position on this important issue. the european parliament did not confine itself to the powers laid down in the treaty, that is to say, to merely expressing its agreement. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. it sought and succeeded in obtaining commitments from the commission and the council which largely coincided with the european parliament's positions. i would even say that it was a warm-up for interinstitutional cooperation in view of the new role which the european parliament will assume after the adoption and entry into force of the reform treaty. the acceptance of the amendment by the union is therefore accompanied by substantive commitments. these relate to ensuring the effective operation of the mechanism. they go far beyond this, in that they set out the guidelines for a comprehensive approach to public health in developing countries. the acceptance by the union of the amendment to the trips agreement sends a positive message of hope to the developing countries. we hope that it will also lead the other members of the world trade organization in the same direction.
mr president, we could not be discussing today the proposal for a european framework for professional qualifications if mr mantovani, drawing on the experience of previous colleagues who have dealt with the subject, had not worked so well with the commission and the council. so today we can talk about the shaping of the eight levels of learning outcomes covering general education, adult education, vocational education and training and the three levels of higher education qualifications. in reply to the previous speaker, we would stress that articles 149 and 150 of the treaty are the legal basis for the proposed recommendation, because there is the prospect of lifelong learning - that is all - and that we do not accept that education can in any case be a competence of the union. it remains a national responsibility. however, the comparison of qualifications within the european qualifications framework ignores teaching methods and types of learning organisations, and therefore refers only to knowledge, the ability to understand and the ability to apply knowledge and skills in practice. greece and many other countries insist on the optional nature of the european qualifications framework. it has been formally stated that the promotion of comparative training is not related to the development of the national education system and the recognition of qualifications. in addition, due to its diversity and the particular conditions under which it is acquired, non-formal and informal learning does not provide the possibility of automatic validation, but only of simple reference. we must also be aware that the same person may be qualified on many levels.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr president, we have heard wonderful things, and from the commissioner in charge, who has been quick to call terrorists those who, in any event, claim to be fighting for freedom. i wonder if we are not too quick to call turkey a country that is all over the place, a turkey that has troops in a member state of the european union, a turkey that is not adapting to the requirements of the union, and this is unprecedented because it is the only country that is not adapting. finally, to go into something more technical, just before its adventure on its eastern border, turkey found a price for oil in europe of $76 a barrel, and today, because of its resort to arms - as turkey always does to solve the problems that concern it - oil has passed $90 a barrel. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, today's debate gives us the opportunity to express our satisfaction with the result of the elections in turkey and to welcome the expressed will of the turkish people to continue the course of reforms. the european perspective of turkey, which remains the objective, paved the way for the reform effort. but unfortunately, from one point to another, it has slowed down. the new government, with a fresh and strong mandate, must move swiftly to ensure that all the provisions of the association agreement and the additional protocol are fully implemented. the reform process is primarily concerned with democratisation, fundamental human rights and religious freedoms. in this context, it is imperative to abolish article 301 of the penal code and to effectively address the requests of the ecumenical patriarchate. unfortunately, the turkish government's attitude to this last issue has so far allowed extreme acts to take place. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that the logic of resolving disputes by force must not prevail, because that would mean instability in the wider region. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of contacts with the countries of the region, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe and the countries of the former soviet union. the international community must play a peacekeeping role in this looming crisis. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that we expect turkey to respect all its obligations so that it can take firm steps towards the prospect of european integration.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her excellent work. mr president, the popular mandate given to the erdoğan government and to mr erdoğan in particular means that a reform process has been pursued since turkey's european perspective was established. it also means a new will for a just and lasting solution to the cyprus problem, with the first condition being the withdrawal of turkish troops from cyprus. it means a new will for substantial good neighbourly relations in general, and with greece in particular. it means respect for human rights with new laws, such as the law on church institutions, such as laws on respect for individual rights and freedoms. it means historical reconciliation with the past and recognition of the genocides that have to do with the armenians, the pontic and the assyrian. it also means a new logic in dealing with the kurdish question. the european union must be seriously concerned by the talk of an invasion of northern iraq. the european union must not allow itself to be taken over by the united states, which is the only country in the world to have a nuclear weapon, and we must not allow ourselves to be taken over by the united states, which is the only country in the world to have nuclear weapons.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is burdened by a succession of deviations which sometimes reach the limits of intensity. their dramatization allows the revival of works of the past, makes the present doubtful and interrupts the creative flight forward. the union-russia partnership is accompanied by legitimate questions. has russia come to terms with the reality of the enlarged union? the european union has been able to absorb the shock of enlargement to the east? do the new member states feel that they are part of an effective european security system? how does the union react to russia's attempt to redefine and strengthen its new role in the international arena of power? will the two sides remain in a climate of mistrust and tacit diplomacy or will they pursue joint action plans? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the declared objective of four common spaces must remain politically binding, just as the objective of russia's accession to the wto must remain politically binding. broad and solid partnership structures are therefore needed in the economic area, the area of freedom, security and justice, external security, and research, education and culture. the 'russophobia' syndrome does not belong in the union of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. i understand the sensitivities of some of the citizens of the new member states, but the projection of past experiences may cast doubt on the prospect of transparent political cooperation and strict institutional interconnection. mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, it is in the mutual interest of the union and russia to pursue common political and economic objectives which serve the democratic principle, serve peace, stability and security.
in writing. the establishment of a european qualifications framework strengthens eu intervention in the education systems of the member states, the homogenisation and adaptation to predefined quality and efficiency indicators. it is another tool for substituting flexible 'learning' for education, outside the socially institutionalized process of education. the knowledge is replaced by a temporary, permanent training which will equip workers with the skills that capital needs every time. the recognition of these qualifications will not be based on the qualifications awarded by the official education system of each country, but on the basis of certification examinations in bodies controlled by employers. the disconnection between the degree and the possibility of pursuing a profession is thus further promoted. the link between different levels of education and different forms of learning, which is intended to equate experiential learning with systematic training, attempts to level labour rights and to reduce the wages of all workers to the lowest possible level. the general objective of the eu through the system of lifelong learning and the certification of vocational qualifications is to subordinate the whole of education to the priorities of the market and to the enhancement of the profitability of capital, in full proportion to the educational needs of workers and young people. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one.
in writing. tax policy is a means of redistributing income in favour of capital. this is what all the centre-right and centre-left governments are doing and it is the direction of the eu of capital. the common tax policy is not a reality because of inter-imperialist contradictions. but even if there were, capital would serve its own profit at the expense of the people's incomes and needs. in its relentless competition, capital today moves easily and quickly from high-tax countries to lower-tax ones. however, in all member states the tax rate on business income is reduced, shifting taxes to personal income. the same is not true of the tax burden on labour income, which remains stable, while indirect taxes and vat have increased, widening inequality and the gap between rich and poor. this is also reflected in the oecd data, where indirect taxes in the form of vat reached 6,9% of gdp in 2006. the tax exemption of capital is thus systematically implemented and the tax burden of workers is increased by indirect taxes. this is also the case in greece, where the business tax has been reduced by 10 points, vat has been increased by one point and a further increase of two points is now being prepared. this is the capitalist barbarity that creates inequality and poverty for the many, this is what we must overturn.
in writing. i supported the florenz report on the green paper 'towards a smoke-free europe' because i believe it will help to protect public health and will substantially help to reduce the harmful effects of smoking, both on young and chronic smokers, by promoting the immediate ban of all addictive additives and by promoting prevention actions at european and member state level.
in writing. the report on the progress of turkey's eu accession process is full of congratulations to the turkish government and the new president, a candid and uncritical account of human rights in general and indefinitely, condemnation and the joint eu-turkey fight against terrorism. on the contrary, there is no mention whatsoever of the continued occupation of the northern part of cyprus by turkish military forces. the european union is not prepared to accept the fact that the turkish cypriots are not in a position to take part in the elections. no condemnation of the turkish regime's policy of questioning greek sovereign rights, or its threat to use force against neighbouring countries. the european union is not prepared to accept the death penalty for the kurdish people, but to accept the death penalty for the kurdish people. not even the slightest hint of political persecution of communists and other progressive people by the turkish bourgeoisie, however it appears: secular or veiled. while urging her not to use disproportionate force in the impending attack on northern iraq! the report reflects, within the eu, the aspirations of the powerful imperialist countries, in accordance with their geopolitical interests in the wider region. it is in the interests of the turkish people and the peoples of the region to oppose turkey's accession to the eu and its imperialist plans.
mr president, the european union is partly responsible for the unjust and dirty war launched by nato against yugoslavia. it is responsible for the murder of thousands of yugoslavs, for the enormous destruction of infrastructure, factories and the entire country. for the use of depleted uranium. the ones who should be arrested, tried and convicted of war crimes are clinton, blair, javier solana (former secretary general of nato) and the other leaders of the countries that attacked yugoslavia. unfortunately, the opposite has happened. you have dismantled yugoslavia, created protectorate states, and are now trying to annex serbia. you're asking for a declaration of repentance from a people who took it for granted. he defended his country's independence. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. today you are continuing the same policy with the independence of kosovo and the creation of a new protectorate. the measures proposed in the report are intended, among other things, to try to buy up the blood and destruction with money coming from the workers of europe. the murderers of the yugoslav people must be presented as saviors. to create conditions for serbia to be attached to the imperialist chariot, and for european capital to conquer the country. the kke votes against this report and considers that it is in the interest of the peoples of the balkans not to forget and to fight against the european union and the barbarism which you serve.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have of course followed this debate with great interest and have of course taken note of the suggestions or even the concerns which have been expressed here by many of the members. in any case, the outcome of this debate seems to me to be clear. he points out that only the granting of a truly european perspective to serbia can bring peace, stability and progress to that country and stability to the western balkans region as well. this is, after all, a given, so to speak, because the council has repeatedly reaffirmed that serbia's future is indeed, of course, in its future membership of the european union. we all know that this project is not a project without conditions. there are of course conditions which will have to do with the internal political process in serbia itself, with respect for democratic values and with respect for the values which are proper to a state governed by the rule of law. but it also has to do, of course, with the cooperation that serbia will have to provide to the international criminal court. serbia has already done a great deal in this respect by cooperating with the court. we all know that other gestures and other steps will have to be taken. but let me express my confidence and encouragement that the serbian authorities will be able, at the end of this process, to take the steps that are still needed to make this cooperation a full cooperation. we must, the european union must, help serbia. we believe that it is a strategic mistake to leave serbia and its people in a kind of limbo, without direction, without prospects, without a plan. it is a strategic mistake which we must not make and if we do not make it we must do everything to avoid it. i also want to welcome the progress that has been made with regard to the possibility of free movement of serbian nationals within the european area. we can make progress on that too. something has been done and that something that has been done, those initiatives that we have taken must be duly welcomed. we must also offer a future prospect to the youth of serbia. it is in the young, of course, that we will build and it is with the young that we will build a democratic serbia which fully shares our values and principles and which can aspire to be an integral part of the european union.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very substantive and responsible debate and for the very substantive report. the debate has shown that there is a broad consensus in parliament and in the union as a whole that serbia's future lies in the european union, that the door of the european union is open to serbia when it fulfils the conditions and that the government of serbia holds the keys to bringing serbia into europe. the majority of serbian citizens support and approve of this development. the serbian government is now very much on guard, with the keys in their hands. i hope that the serbian government will now use these keys and fulfil the will of the serbian people, the will of the serbs to move towards the european union. you can be sure that we will take account of the views expressed in the report and that we will also take them into account in our own progress report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 25 october.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by maria martens, on behalf of the committee on development, on progress in relations between the european union and africa [2007/2002 (ini) ] (a6-0375/2007).
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, we are obviously not expecting that either rome or lisbon or london or paris will experience natural disasters so that we can eventually reflect more deeply on this matter, and we are really hoping that the palace of bethlehem and the tower of bethlehem will stand for many, many centuries, as they have done so far. as regards the specific deadlines for amending the rules currently in force, i cannot, of course, commit myself on behalf of the council to any specific date.
acting president of the council. - very good. i think that at least some of the questions that have been asked here have already been answered in my previous speech and i have also said that the analysis we have made of the operation of this solidarity fund in relation to the past is positive in the sense that it has actually worked. the question of the rapid reaction force is being considered. there is no decision at the moment, it is being considered, debated by the council. we have no decision on this in relation to fire prevention. of course much has been done. something still has to be done and i suppose this is a situation where the exchange of experience called 'back practices' and cooperation between member states at the level of the european union can be really useful. there is an effort being made here to do this. i must say that my own country, which is a country which is systematically, year after year, very much affected by this issue of fires and fires and all issues relating to fires, and forest fires in particular, and that we have been able to adopt internally a number of measures and initiatives which have proved to be very successful initiatives in terms of fire prevention and the stopping of fires and fires and we are of course very open to sharing our experience with all the member states.
acting president of the council. thank you very much for your question, madam president, but as you know, the council can only act in its legislative capacity on the basis of a proposal which the commission will put to it or present to it. at present the council has not received any legislative proposal for a council decision to establish an integrated european policy for the support, vocational training and integration of citizens with disabilities. in 2000, as you know, the council adopted directive 2078/ec establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation and prohibiting discrimination on a number of grounds, including disability. in addition, the current year has been designated 'european year of equal opportunities for all' by a decision adopted jointly by the council and parliament under the co-decision procedure.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office. the abolition of discrimination in employment is not a solution to any disability. yesterday, just yesterday, we had the announcement of the health programme using new technologies. could this proposal not be exploited so that a large proportion of european citizens - who could be active and useful to the whole in a period of demographic decline - could be exploited and live in social cohesion?
acting president of the council. mr president, as you know, the decision on the conclusion of visa facilitation agreements is taken on a case-by-case basis and naturally takes account of the country concerned, the type of relationship we have with the country concerned, technical security issues, etc. so if that is the case, at the appropriate time, with regard to belarus or with regard to other countries, the decision will be proposed by the commission to the council and the council will decide, but as i say, these are not agreements which are simply decided to conclude or to start negotiations without certain technical and political conditions being met. but i must say that i think that if there is this technical possibility, if there is this political possibility, visa facilitation agreements contribute to what i have already referred to, the so-called 'human' or 'humanitarian' dimension of neighbourhood policy. we should not make each other strangers, but on the contrary we should and can recognize each other more and better.
acting president of the council. mr president, the council would like to recall that on 15 and 16 june 2006, and also on 14 and 15 december 2006, the european council endorsed or took note of the presidency reports on strengthening the european union's response capabilities in emergency and crisis situations with a view to improving coordination and the use of available resources. the european council of june 2006 also provided further guidance on improving the union's response capabilities to emergency, crisis and disaster situations both inside and outside the european union, calling for particular attention to be paid, in particular, to further developing the european union's rapid response capability, building on means made available by member states, including civil protection modules, and to work on commission proposals on strengthening the community's civil protection capabilities. with regard to the report presented by michel barnier in may 2006, the council would also like to point out that the european council of 15 and 16 june 2006 welcomed this document as an important contribution to the debate. although certain ideas in the barnier report have been incorporated into community rules or practice, no proposal to set up a union civil protection force has been submitted to the council to date. in its conclusions of 15 and 16 october, the council, taking into account the devastating situations which have recently occurred in the member states and recognising the need for the european union to be able to respond effectively and in a timely manner to crises and emergencies following natural disasters, as it said, invited the commission to continue to examine the matter and to present relevant proposals before the general affairs and external relations council meeting on 10 december.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office, but he has described to us in the council's own language the history of inaction and delays for a year and a half. the text you have just read has succeeded in completely 'airing' the barnier proposal. i ask you: how many more dead must we mourn in fires and floods ? how many more fortunes to lose? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you, as president, will you propose to the council on 10 december that it should consider what the european parliament is proposing, namely the creation of this auxiliary civil protection force, or will your successor tell us again, after a year and a half, the timing of the new delays?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to make a brief comment on the remarks made by mr medina ortega and then thank all those who have spoken for saying that this european instrument, this european mandate of which we are speaking, can really be a complementary instrument to national legislation and therefore take account of those serious violations of the rights of creditors which are being committed on a transnational basis. i very much agree with mr medina ortega that we must also be careful about seizure, protection, so to speak, of those who take refuge in tax havens. of course, you all know: europe has no unilateral power of action. i believe that the instrument to be worked on is that of strengthened cooperation between the judicial authorities, the financial investigation authorities and the large banking groups operating in these so-called tax havens, and then convincing the governments of those countries that it is also in their interest to cooperate with the european union. so even if we do not have an active instrument in the near future, a unilateral instrument to influence the tax haven system, i believe that it will be with an instrument of democracy on the one hand, and of judicial, financial cooperation on the other, that we will be able to deal with this problem, which is a real and existing problem.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i support both initiatives, which are, in my view, complementary and which would both enable the greater social reintegration of persons sentenced either to a non-custodial sentence or to a custodial sentence in a member state other than the one in which they habitually reside. we also support initiatives such as these, which implement the principle of mutual recognition. the draft texts of both initiatives have evolved very much in the course of discussions in the working party on cooperation in criminal matters. many of ms esteves’s and mr varvitsiotis’ suggested amendments during the first parliamentary consultation have already been taken up during the course of the following discussions. i thank both rapporteurs for their interesting reports, and, in particular on the first initiative, ms esteves has carried out a very rigorous legal analysis of the german/french text. she has identified the main problems as being the different sanctions available in the member states and the problem of how to operate mutual recognition when one’s own system has no precise equivalent. the other problem she, as rapporteur, has highlighted is that of how to deal with a breach of non-custodial conditions, and of which member state – the issuing member state or the executing member state – should be responsible for imposing the sanction for that breach. some comments on some main amendments. i have a comment on amendment 1 on the first report. the title will have to change on adoption, since conditional sentences have been removed from the scope. this is also relevant to a number of different amendments which refer to conditional sentences. amendment 12 relates to the definition of ‘lawful place of residence’. this is currently under discussion in council, as is the possibility of going to another member state for work or study. i refer, in particular, also to amendment 16. i can inform you that discussions of the text in council are going very well, and the portuguese presidency hopes – with the full support of the commission – for political agreement by the end of december 2007, before the end of the portuguese presidency. on the second initiative, the initiative on the european enforcement order and transfer of sentenced persons, i welcome the second report by mr varvitsiotis, which states that issues raised by the european parliament in the first report have largely been taken into consideration. this is correct: we took into consideration amendments and proposals by parliament. concerning the sole amendment suggested by the rapporteur concerning the new recital 2a, i fully share the substance of the statement that procedural rights in criminal proceedings are a very crucial element for ensuring mutual confidence among member states, and i also agree that it is highly regrettable that this instrument on procedural rights was not adopted, despite the support from parliament and despite our efforts to make possible an agreement on procedural rights. this, unfortunately, was not possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, i should like to begin by paying tribute to the late mr correia, who made a major contribution to the drafting of a proper and comprehensive report, which was also mentioned by the vice-president of the commission. i would like to say that the subject we are discussing today has a very long history. it started with a council of europe convention in 1983. the convention has been accepted by all the member states. but that convention provided that the prisoner's consent was required for the transfer of the prisoner from one country to another. so that contract had no effect. a second convention was made, which provided that the consent of the prisoner was not required, but this convention was not signed by all the member states of the council of europe, and so that effort was also foiled. we are therefore faced with a new initiative by three member states of the european union, austria, finland and sweden, which have submitted a draft which was properly drawn up by the council and came as a framework convention. what does this framework decision provide for? it provides that a convicted national of a member state of the european union must be transferred to the member state of which he is a national or has his permanent residence or all his interests. this makes a lot of sense, because we see that it will be much easier to rehabilitate him when he gets out of prison, because when he is transferred to the member state of his nationality he will have much easier access to the language, he will have much easier access to his friends, his relatives and he will be in a familiar environment. this report, as you will recall, madam president, was voted by a large majority in parliament in june 2006. unfortunately, the bureaucratic approach of poland, which delayed the implementation of this framework decision by means of various procedural 'gimmicks', has been overruled, and we are now in the process of a renewed consultation. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a european coincidence that each member state, for its own - insignificant - reasons, is undermining such a good measure. in such cases what kind of united europe are we talking about ? i would like to stress that, fortunately, the constitutional treaty presented by the portuguese prime minister the other day provides that there will be an increased majority in this area and that the veto will be finally abolished. i would like to conclude by thanking the vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, for his contribution and to wish him well, after 25 years, to see this right initiative become a reality as soon as possible.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the commission should ‘take a leading role in promoting a service culture’. when the ombudsman said this in the introduction to his annual report, i could not agree more. the european union needs to be closer to its citizens, to explain better, to listen better and to deliver good policies. to have a top-quality public administration is a necessary condition for that. to have a well-equipped watchdog to monitor our progress is equally important to our common success. the ombudsman acts as an external control mechanism for sound and accountable administration on the part of the european union institutions and bodies. i therefore very much welcome the ombudsman’s annual report for 2006, and i want to stress that the relations between the commission and the ombudsman are very positive. for example, the number of open enquiries addressed to the commission decreased by 20% in 2006 in relation to 2005 and 2004, and we more frequently acknowledge our mistakes and apologise. we seek satisfactory solutions for complainants, just as we follow up the critical remarks and the draft recommendations of the ombudsman. i also welcome ms sbarbati’s very important report and the constructive proposals in it. just as i agree with the ombudsman’s call for a service culture, i agree with ms sbarbati’s call for the necessary budgetary and human resources. we are judged by our deeds and not by our words, so we need to really ensure that citizens receive prompt and substantive responses, as ms sbarbati says in her report. let me briefly comment on a few particular points in the report. first, the commission welcomes the ombudsman’s initiative to draw up a list of ‘star’ cases exemplifying best practices. we also welcome this initiative to prepare a study on the follow-up given by the commission and other institutions and bodies to the critical comments and further remarks of the ombudsman. i hope this can contribute to improving practices to the benefit of citizens. secondly, regarding the alleged overlaps between the activities and powers of the committee on petitions and those of the ombudsman, the commission reiterates its willingness to work with those two bodies within the framework of their respective remit, and the definition of that remit does not fall within the commission’s competence. thirdly, parliament has requested the commission make proper use of its discretionary powers under article 226 relating to infringement procedures. of course, we should avoid delays or failure to take action, and that is why the commission recently adopted a communication on the implementation of community law, and we laid down more targeted preventive measures, improved information provision and problem solving. in short, this was the commission’s new commitment: to seek a more efficient management of infringement cases and increased transparency. concerning regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 on public access to documents, as you know, the review of this regulation is under way, and the ombudsman’s contribution to the consultation has been very much welcomed. only a few weeks ago we had a meeting with the interinstitutional committee on public access to documents which was chaired by vice-president wallis, and i want to thank her for taking this matter about public access to documents forward in a very constructive way. my penultimate point concerns the ombudsman’s statute. it is being dealt with in a separate context but, as it is mentioned in the report, i just want to assure you that the commission closely monitors the developments, and that contacts are under way between the commission and the ombudsman at different hierarchical levels. i want this issue to progress in a spirit of close cooperation between the council, parliament and the commission. lastly, concerning the ombudsman’s communication strategy and the european network of ombudsmen, we need to share experiences and administrative practices. we need to raise public awareness and to bring citizens closer to the eu. the ombudsman has a very important stake in this, and so does the european parliament and the committee on petitions. this is important to me and the whole commission, and you can be sure that we will do our absolute best to cooperate and find good, forward-looking solutions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the author of the report on the 2006 annual report of the european ombudsman, my colleague mrs sbarbati, the secretariat of our committee for its assistance in drafting this report, and the european ombudsman, mr nikiforomandoro, for the timely submission of his 2006 annual report and for his subsequent cooperation with the committee on petitions. the ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, is an independent institution and a monitoring mechanism of the european union's administration. however, despite mr diamantoure's public information work, there is still confusion about the european ombudsman's areas of competence. the efforts to inform the public and the corresponding financial support from the european union should therefore be continued. the european parliament has therefore again tabled an amendment in this connection, in which we call for the media to be increasingly involved in publicising the work of the european ombudsman. the report on the activities of the european ombudsman, as shadow rapporteur, i tried to contribute with amendments that i tabled and supported. the adoption of these amendments has, in essence, made progress in the following areas of the european ombudsman's activities: first, the european ombudsman was asked to continue to conduct inquiries into matters falling under the third pillar. secondly, reports concerning the european ombudsman should be translated in a timely manner into all the official languages of the european union, and in particular with regard to the annual report of the european ombudsman. thirdly, the european ombudsman should maintain good relations with the members of the committee on petitions and work with them to achieve the desired results. finally, the european network of ombudsmen is called upon to expand and include ombudsmen with specific responsibilities, such as the ombudsman for the protection of minors, for family problems, for the protection of personal data, for the rights of prisoners and for the rights of the sick.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, today's debate, the excellent work of the european ombudsman, mr nikiforos diamantinos, over four and a half years, and the excellent report by mrs sbarbati, are an opportunity for the european parliament - and for the commission, madam vice-president - to see how the citizens view the institutions of the european union. it is the large share of citizens who are calling for more transparency and good governance. and he doesn't find it enough. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the number of cases settled amicably decreased. the commission (which is not listening to me now, madam vice-president) has reduced the number of cases where it has complied with the european ombudsman's suggestions. it is not enough to congratulate the european ombudsman, madam vice-president, but we must also listen to his suggestions. mr diamantorous rightly calls for his powers to be extended to third pillar matters, so that there is greater transparency and control there too. the commission is also proposing to amend the statute of the european ombudsman to make his work more effective. i think he has the support of the european parliament. the commission's support is needed, not in words but in deeds.
madam president, it seems that we are beginning to realise how important it is for european citizens to feel close to the union through democratic and, above all, transparent institutions. the institution which is the best at receiving citizens' complaints and at the same time the institution which can most obviously make citizens feel that the union is concerned and responds to their problems by showing the way to acknowledging and correcting the mistakes of the administration is the institution of the european ombudsman. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the philosophy of her report. it gives due weight to the role of the ombudsman as a key factor in the democratic character of the union. i am concerned, however, that although the incidence of maladministration has decreased - where an amicable settlement has been reached - the ombudsman's critical remarks have not been sufficiently accepted by the institutions. the rapporteur is right to point out that parliament has the right to appeal to the court of justice, which is certainly not the case. but we must all understand that the institutions are ourselves and that, by extension, their credibility depends on our attitude. i also agree with the rapporteur's view that the commission should be able to exercise its responsibilities in a balanced and active manner. the ombudsman is not, cannot and should not act as a façade of democracy for the union. we must accept this, we must decide together and above all we must take responsibility. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i would of course like to point out that we are dealing with the ombudsman's tenth report, who in 2006 received 3,889 letters or complaints, 3,619 of which were sent by individual citizens. out of 3889 letters, 3051 were letters without jurisdiction; 838 complaints for one year. i think that the ombudsman has a service with sufficient staff and resources to deal with the 838 complaints, which are of course mainly about maladministration by the commission, the european communities' staff regulatory office and to a lesser extent the european parliament and the council. it is good that it publishes a list of best administrative practices. i do not know, however, whether his service gives citizens the opportunity to express their complaints about the functioning of his own service. i am sorry that in the report of the committee on petitions we are addressing the european selection office exclusively and not the european ombudsman, who has not yet acted on his own initiative in the investigation of this office. we are therefore asking him not to change the statute but to deepen the rights we already have, so that he respects the citizens and is very active in the proper administration of the european institutions. respect the personal data of citizens, meps and officials who are bound by confidentiality. the ecj should operate independently, without interference, and effective international bodies with an autonomous function to protect fundamental rights should be respected. our support for the european ombudsman is not without limits.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to refer to the tragic political situation in lebanon and the role which the european union must urgently play. today is a typical day in this crisis, as the election of the president of the republic has once again been postponed. the geostrategic interests in the region of regional powers with influence in lebanon have deepened the rift between the political groups, resulting in the hostage-taking of the people, the danger of civil war, insecurity for the whole region. the european union has a partnership with lebanon. it has an action plan under the neighbourhood policy. the european union and its member states contribute 40% of international development aid. the union has lived up to its responsibilities in the context of the enhanced peacekeeping force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the process is difficult. it seems impossible on the grounds of failing to elect a president of the republic. the union must play the role of an effective negotiator. i think that is a very good thing. we have no room for waiting and politics. we wait and see.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all my congratulations to mr schmitt and the committee on the own-initiative report. this report is timely and very inspirational. we used this report in drafting our white paper as one of the contributions that i think important in a common strategy towards sport in europe and i am happy that there is a lot of concrete convergence between the white paper adopted in july and this report. in general this report and our white paper agree that the general orientation of physical education does not necessarily correspond to today’s societal needs. the subject is increasingly marginalised within school curricula programmes, so that is why we need to improve. i would like to mention some of the issues or areas in the report and in the white paper. both documents recommend enhanced cooperation between the health, education and sport sectors to define and implement strategies to reduce health risks such as being overweight. regarding the time devoted to physical education, we will build this into a set of physical activity guidelines. we should develop this with member states by the end of next year, 2008. we are also considering introducing the award of a european label to schools which are actively involved in supporting and promoting physical activities in a school environment. concerning research, the white paper proposes mobilising the seventh research framework programme to support multidisciplinary research in this area, mainly on lifestyle aspects of health. we also recommend considering the role of sport in the field of social inclusion, social integration and equal opportunities in the programming of structural funds. concerning investment, as far as top class sport is concerned, we have launched a study on the training of young top-level sportsmen and sportswomen in europe. this should enable us to identify the right instruments to develop sports training and education for young persons, and also ensure higher quality and quality more generally. in the mean time, we are supporting sport and physical activity through the lifelong learning programme, the youth in action programme and the europe for citizens programme. let me underline at this moment that the general call for proposals for 2008, 2009 and 2010 in the framework of the lifelong learning programme has included physical education and sport among its priorities, and this will open new funding opportunities for this education area. to conclude, we are looking forward, as mr schmitt mentioned, to the ratification and entry into force of the reform treaty because this will open up new possibilities. our experience with the pierre de coubertin action plan and your own report will help us to shape those possibilities better to support member states’ efforts to promote the role of sport in education in the coming years. i thank you again for your contribution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate the experienced colleague, mr pál schmitt, on his report and to stress that sport and the participation of children in sporting activities are very necessary today, given the changes that have taken place in our daily lives. today our children spend much of their time in front of the television, video games, and computers. their diet is anything but healthy. childhood obesity has become a lingering scourge and sets the stage for major health problems that will inevitably arise in the future. sport is a way for children not only to exercise and develop new team skills, but also to have fun and learn to be team members. the physical exercise that young people will do on the occasion of their participation in sports also has a beneficial effect on their physical health. the children are not eating more, but they are moving and exercising less, commissioner. the result of a sedentary lifestyle and obesity is often high blood pressure and diabetes, which affect an increasing proportion of the population in the european union. today, member states must focus their efforts on the school physical education curriculum, which aims to prepare children for a healthy lifestyle. member states and competent authorities should ensure that the development of health is given greater emphasis in school curricula and that the physical education course is given equal status with other courses in terms of teaching time. member states should also set the minimum number of physical education classes in schools. finally, member states should actively support all forms of physical education and promote dialogue between parents, physical education teachers and extra-curricular sports associations.
mr president, europe benefits from its immigrants, but xenophobia is increasing rather than decreasing in europe today. the italian example is fresh. in my country, greece, a delegation of meps recently found deplorable conditions of detention for hundreds of migrants and asylum seekers in samos. in a facility that the ministers promised would close immediately, but has not yet closed. the european union has also been criticized for its lack of political will to tackle the problem of migration. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very good one. the problem you've presented to us is primarily policing and it's not balanced. of course, we need to combat illegal immigration. solidarity is needed with countries that are receiving huge flows of migrants and serious readmission agreements at european level, but also european solidarity in protecting the fundamental rights of migrants. they cannot be driven back to misery and danger. we need a serious european foreign and economic policy that tackles the main causes of migration, such as poverty and war, in a peaceful but firm way. and of course, above all, we need a multifaceted policy to integrate immigrants into our societies. instead, in your program you equate immigration with crime. commissioners, you specifically mention that the european border control system, a programme which forms part of the migration policies, will increase internal security in the schengen area by preventing illegal immigration, terrorism, etc. what does security really have to do with immigration, even illegal immigration? what does this really have to do with terrorism? by linking migration to these phenomena in the minds of citizens and in the policies of europe, you are, i fear, playing into the hands of the extreme right-wing forces in the european union. i would ask you to remove these dangerous attitudes from your strategy papers. there are certainly criminal immigrants, such as criminal englishmen, germans or greeks, but the only crime of immigrants is that they were born in poor or war-torn areas.
the rapporteur. mr president, the number of non-attached members may be increased at any time by unforeseen events, depending on political cohesion within existing political groups or the possibility of reaching consensus among non-attached members, provided that the number necessary to form a political group is available. the provisions of the rules of procedure relating to the composition of the conference of presidents should therefore not, from the point of view of legislative policy, cover only the case where the number of non-attached members is small. parliament's rules of procedure are a set of rules with provisions - presumably of long-term effect - which must produce useful results not only for the time of adoption or amendment but also for future changing situations. for this reason, ad hoc situations which can change at any time, and even return to the status quo ante, must not lead to the adoption of new regulations every time. it is a question of parliamentary sovereignty, parliamentary autonomy, the ability of the house to organise itself, and i ask for a vote in favour.
in writing. the commission's proposal on soil protection is general and vague. it also does not provide for community funds for basic and necessary projects to prevent and replace degraded land. in the mediterranean countries and greece in particular, the problems are more acute, because of the arid-temperate climate, the relief of the land, the strong winds, etc., which contribute to desertification and soil erosion. the large length of the coastline in relation to its total area also favours salinization and land-use change in the direction of building. there is a lack of soil and thematic maps, resulting in the unwise use of agrochemicals, and the inability to promote mixed farming in practice, due to the irrational system of prices and subsidies for agricultural products in the cap. the lack of any government service for the recording, prevention and rehabilitation of pathogenic soils etc. makes the situation worrying. the commission proposal does not seem to be able to deal with these problems, although many of them should already have been dealt with. as regards the great variety of soils (320) used as justification, this could be overcome if the proposed measures were based on the pathogenicity of the soils to be prevented or restored rather than on the specific soil type.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, the council leaves this debate with the conviction that the euro-mediterranean partnership must be fostered and consolidated and that the holding of the ministerial meeting in santa eulalia is the right choice. this cooperation, this partnership, this new word and this new concept must be based on concrete projects if it is to be successful. there are very good reasons for this and there are dramatic realities, which have been very eloquently evoked by the honourable members, for us to change the present situation. that will only happen if we can see far and act quickly. we have a global vision, a global approach, we have action plans, we have the ambitious legislative proposals that vice-president frattini has mentioned here, and we have to take concrete steps in relation to projects, particularly in the three areas i have mentioned. firstly, migration and development - in this area we have to take steps to promote concrete actions - and this is what the ministerial meeting wants to do in the area of remittance transfer and micro-credit - and for this we will have to bring together all the actors (it is not a decision that members of parliament or the commission or the council can take), we have to bring together all the actors, banks, the world bank, the european investment bank, immigrant associations, civil society, to find concrete ways of encouraging the use of financial services and enhancing the efficiency of services, in particular through alternative methods of transferring money and the use of new technologies which can also help a great deal in achieving our objectives here. and we will certainly have no difficulty in setting up a euro-mediterranean website with all the information on shipments, including costs, in order to promote competition and reduce the costs of shipments, which is a central objective, which links us to the countries that are our partners. we need concrete initiatives on legal migration. we would like to set up a working group with representatives of the euromed partners and relevant social partners to study the employment situation and labour market needs in greater depth, to promote training for migrant workers before they move, to study the possibility of making the european union portal in the area of migration and employment accessible to all euromed partners, to set up information centres and to manage job search in the euromed countries, respecting national competences in this field, of course. we also have concrete projects in the area of illegal immigration, madam president, ladies and gentlemen. given that many euromed partners are also countries of destination and transit for migratory flows, it is important that we strengthen institutional capacity in the areas of combating illegal immigration and, to this end, we must also promote concrete actions. here are some of them: firstly, to promote documentary security, because only this can lead to the exact identification of people and flows, to greater confidence, to greater ease of movement; secondly, to promote access for euromed partners to frontex training courses so that they can strengthen their own know-how in the fight against illegal immigration, in compliance with all the international instruments to which we are bound, in particular those on rescue and search at sea. this could be a concrete step, a first step, towards participation in joint actions coordinated by frontex. we also need initiatives in the field of voluntary return and readmission. an open discussion on this topic would be useful to reflect on information campaigns, identification processes, assisted voluntary return processes and the negotiation of readmission agreements with countries of origin. these and many other points will be discussed in santa eulália in the algarve. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we may have many differences, but one thing is absolutely certain and i also leave this debate with the impression that this path of dialogue, of effective partnership, has no alternative and is the path needed to change the status quo and, on this point, we are all absolutely in agreement: the status quo must be changed and perhaps santa eulalia is a very important step on this necessary path.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate has also offered many practical insights as well as interesting reflections. i believe that a political point of strategy is how to really take a step forward from cooperation towards a real partnership, to belonging to a real common euro-mediterranean area. mr pannella's idea is very interesting, and it is clear that this is a strategy which requires us to think long term. only when there is a truly single euro-mediterranean area can this sense of common belonging lead us to work towards a common goal, which we are building. first we had to get the agreement of the 27 member states, now we are discussing it with the partners on the southern shore, but the road is already paved. the second very concrete point, which i shall certainly take up again at the euromed meeting, is an appeal to all the participants in the meeting to have their respective countries ratify the existing international conventions. before we think of new rules, let us remember that only a few have ratified and applied very important international conventions. i am thinking in particular of the international convention against trafficking in human beings. if there is one area where a convention must be ratified immediately, it is the issue of international trafficking in human beings. the third point comes from mr gaubert, to whom i am particularly grateful. the emphasis on the humanitarian dimension of this great debate. we are not talking about laws, we are not talking about bureaucratic issues, we are talking about women, men and children who, as has been said, risk their lives and often lose them; so the theme of solidarity. i believe that the theme of solidarity with those who suffer is a key to tackling a truly equal relationship with our partners. the fourth point i would like to take from this debate is how to move, let us say brutally, from the final documents to concrete actions. we have written many documents, and indeed we have taken some very important concrete initiatives. we must now multiply these concrete activities, for example, how to use development aid funds. it is clear that if i, as the european union, have funds to help local development, i must be able to understand how these funds are spent. i must have, as some have said, the possibility, for example, of giving positive incentives to those partners and countries which cooperate positively with our common strategy. if there is a common strategy which has been the euro-mediterranean strategy since barcelona and there are countries which are implementing it more than others, i believe that these countries should be given an incentive, a positive recognition. this is a way, i would say an important way, for example, of eradicating corruption. corruption is one of the roots of illegal immigration. if there was less corruption in the countries of origin, if there was less corruption in the countries of transit, many human traffickers would be stopped along the way to get to europe and there would be more cooperation. but this is just one example. and finally, the credibility and firmness towards illegality; minister magalhães said it very clearly, but i agree with him: we are not credible unless we show that illegality can neither be rewarded nor tolerated, so we have to be very clear. and that is where the issue of readmission agreements came in. the readmission agreements give credibility to our policy because those who do not respect the law must be returned with full respect for their individual rights. but there's a political point: the countries of origin taking back their own citizens cannot be the border guards of the european union. i'm gonna say this a little roughly. they don't just agree to cooperate on security. so one of the themes i will be proposing at this conference is how to use visa policy and the movement of people as a political incentive for these countries, for example for greater mobility of students, for the movement of entrepreneurs, to encourage this movement we use a european visa policy and thus offer a positive political signal to those states from which we ask for readmission agreements. we have done so with the western balkans, i think it is time to speak now with the same general approach to the mediterranean.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the status and funding of political parties at european level (com (2007) 0634 c6-0202/2007 2007/0130 (cod)) (a6-0412/2007).
madam president, i am glad that another colleague will be listening to the debate, especially on this particular subject, in our fine language. i would say that on the subject we are discussing we have a valuable tool, which is the political parties, but i am afraid that this valuable tool is still hidden in our institutional cupboard and is in danger of rotting away. we all, or at least most of us, agree on the democratic role that political parties have to play in europe, but i think we must also agree that - so far - they do not play that role. and that is because the parties of today, as has been said by several speakers, are not really political parties. it is a loose federation of parties, as my teacher and rapporteur at the time, dimitris tsatsos, said in his report back in 1996. so we have no real political parties and it is a good opportunity with this debate to see if we can go to real political parties at the level of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. there are two important steps forward in this report. we said it doesn't solve all the political problems, but it does make two important steps forward. one is that by recognising the functioning of political institutions, a thinking factor enters into our discussion. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the second is that it is a very big step forward in terms of transparency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to us why he has not taken this step. i would like to conclude with a brief remark on the question of the breakdown of the legal base. i understand there are technical difficulties. i am sorry for this division, because if we all agree that the financial part, financial independence and transparency, is an intrinsic part of the political functioning itself, i think it would be much more symbolic to have a single act.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner wallström ended her first speech in this debate by expressing the hope that we can walk together. i, the conclusion i draw from the debate is that we will indeed walk together. this can only be good news for the council and the portuguese presidency, and i have to thank the commission and the european parliament for being able, and for being able to move forward together, on the basis of the proposal i have put to you and proposed to you. it's not so much the form, as it's been said here, that matters, it's the substance. the substance of this is to provide the european political parties with additional means so that they can fully exercise their political activity and powers and so that they can fully involve all our citizens in this fascinating process of european construction. this is the real substance, this is the real cause, this is the real issue and i can only rejoice, as i say, that we, the three institutions, can reach agreement on how we can move forward with regard to this objective. i can also tell you, let me be frank, that the fact that we have been able to reach this agreement under the portuguese presidency is of particular importance to me and, of course, to the portuguese government as well, in the exercise of our presidency which is now rapidly approaching its end. i would like to say three things to you: the first is that we expect the court of auditors' opinion to be available shortly and that we therefore hope that we can reach a quick conclusion on this point as well. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter, and that it is not possible to say that the commission has not been able to reach a decision on the matter.
i take note of the information you have given us, mr leinen, and we conclude our discussion with the vice-president, mr wallström.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, mr lobo antunes, i definitely think that you should take all the credit that you deserve for hopefully being able to conclude this particular file before the end of the year. then i think we should have a glass of wine, or port, to celebrate what the portuguese presidency has achieved on this very important file. if mr helmer had remained in plenary, i would have turned to him and said that he is a living proof of how european democracy works because european taxpayers pay his salary to be here to oppose, to be against the european union and all the rest of us. we welcome him here, we accept him here because his voice is also necessary in this debate. so those who oppose also play a very important role in this chamber in the european political debate. this is exactly the idea behind giving all the political parties the possibility of forming and contributing to the european political foundation, to have a lively debate where both sides and all the different views can be expressed. and we do it in an open and transparent way about the criteria, about the rules, about exactly what legal base to apply for all of this. there are no secrets in this particular proposal. as the situation is right now, all the 10 currently existing political parties at european level have set up political foundations which represent a very wide range of political views and programmes. this can only stimulate this lively and diverse debate on european policy issues, and it will contribute to bringing europe closer to its citizens.
the debate is closed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority'. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
member of the commission. madam president, i think there was some lack of clarity concerning the interpretation because i do not believe that the honourable member would have said that the commission has difficulty in dealing properly with this dossier. we are dealing with it with all the accuracy and determination that is needed. in fact we are making, as i said earlier, good progress with croatia on the basis of the merits of croatia. if the border issue and the ecological and fisheries zone were referred to, which relate especially to the bilateral relations between croatia and slovenia, that is a bilateral issue and we encourage both croatia and slovenia to solve these longstanding problems. i trust that, at the latest immediately after the parliamentary elections in croatia, both countries will step up their efforts and intensify work in order to use this window of opportunity and try to settle these outstanding issues, like the border issues.
vice-president of the commission. it is true that, very often, children, because of the illegality of their stay, have no possibility to attend a school and are thus deprived of their chances from the start. as stated in our communication on a european strategy on the rights of the child, a basis in the treaties is required for action in a specific policy area to safeguard children’s rights, and in the immigration field no such specific base exists. however, as regards substance, a common standard already exists – at least a minimum standard – as all member states are bound by international human rights conventions. in particular, in line with the european convention on human rights, member states have to grant certain rights regardless of a person’s immigration status, such as emergency medical care or resources to ensure subsistence. as concerns the convention on the rights of the child, it must be recalled that, besides the specific provisions, it foresees the obligation for the member states to always take into account the best interests of the child. at community level, the commission proposal for a return directive foresees that, where member states are subject to obligations derived from international fundamental rights, such as, for example, the right to education or the right to a family unit, no return decision shall be issued.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his brief answer, but my supplementary question is whether the obligations of the member states are being respected and whether you are aware that we have not only children who are illegal immigrants, but also illegal traffickers who are children. on my island of chios, which is just off the coast of asia minor, a 14-year-old slave trader was arrested.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject you have raised is certainly one of the most sensitive. it is certainly an issue which merits european action, and that is why, with reference to the illegal employment of immigrants on the one hand, and of those who enter and then stay beyond the period of residence on the other, i proposed a directive a few months ago which aims to punish employers. in cases where black labour affects the most vulnerable categories, as you mentioned, of children who are illegally employed and thus exploited, i have proposed a prison sentence. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. today, not all the member states of the union have very strict penalties for employers who exploit the illegal employment of children or women, and i believe that such legislation should be introduced at european level.
the commission's vice-president i think you're right. we must be more vigilant, because i share your conviction that it is important to monitor the activities of private organizations which provide care for children or make seemingly attractive educational offers, etc., which sometimes conceal illegal activities. this is why we have paid particular attention to this phenomenon in the context of the implementation of the european strategy to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings and the most vulnerable groups, especially children. i have included in my proposal for a european strategy for the rights of the child a special attention to the activity of private organizations which must be monitored when they are dealing with children.
vice-president of the commission. as the honourable member knows, the portuguese presidency included the topic of new technologies and integrated border management for discussion at the informal council of interior ministers on 1 october. the presidency presented ideas in relation to increasing security as well as in relation to facilitating travel. i participated, obviously, in the council’s discussion. europe will need to make effective use of the great opportunities new technologies provide in the area of border control. advancements made in biometric technologies will allow for speedier and more reliable identification of travellers. as a concrete example of steps taken by the union so far, the introduction of biometric passports and the development of the visa information system (vis) and schengen information system ii (sis ii) will pave the way for increased use of biometrics at borders. we have, of course, been cooperating very closely with parliament on both these issues. transforming border processes cannot happen overnight. a step-by-step approach is needed, therefore. it is important to first implement what is already planned before embarking on even more ambitious projects. but it is necessary to develop and maintain a long-term strategy and vision, accompanied by a thorough cost-benefit analysis. at the beginning of next year, i will present a communication, not a legislative proposal, outlining how an entry-exit system and a registered travellers programme might look. the communication will evaluate the different options and their impact, including with regard to data protection and other fundamental rights. an entry-exit system and a registered travellers programme should be seen together as part of the same package of measures. simplifying checks for bona fide travellers allows us to focus resources on high-risk travellers. faster border checks for bona fide travellers can offset the impact on border crossing times resulting from an entry-exit system. when implementing such automated system synergies with the business processes and the equipment for sis ii and vis, we need to examine carefully whether we are using our existing infrastructure as efficiently as possible. this communication on the entry-exit system, which i will present in february, will be part of a borders package, which will also include the evaluation report on frontex, as requested by the hague programme, and a communication on a european surveillance system (eurosur). on this basis, i look forward to a truly strategic discussion with member states and parliament on the future directions of the union’s border policy, where new technologies will play a decisive role. in other words, it will be, in my view, an initial basis for a comprehensive strategic approach and discussion.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the informal council meeting, as you know, is certainly an invitation to take part in it, and the european parliament is taking part in it in the person of the chairman of the libe committee, but as far as i am concerned and as far as i said on that occasion, i said exactly what i am saying to you today. i have said specifically that the impact assessment will be presented and made public on the commission's website together with the proposal for a communication. everyone will be able to see the impact assessment, the various implications, our proposal and then of course a discussion will open up, precisely because, as i have already said, we are talking about a communication suggesting ways of working and not a legislative proposal.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i can tell you that it is a little premature because then baroness ludford would immediately intervene and tell me that i put the cart before the horse and i do not want to do that. i would say that certainly to induce or encourage a country like ireland to an even fuller participation in the common area of freedom and security is something i look at with obvious approval. i can only say that when, very shortly, all the various technical options for a proposal are published, it is clear that ireland will probably also be able to find a satisfactory answer as to whether or not this option is beneficial to its citizens, and it is clear that at that point we can come back and discuss this in detail.
vice-president of the commission. the new treaty, already agreed but not yet signed, does not include any general provision authorising the transmission of personal data of european citizens to third countries. in fact, article 15a of the new treaty guarantees the right, the general right, to the protection of personal data. article 24 refers to the application of this general right and the processing of data in the common foreign and security policy area. this means that the transfer of personal data to third countries is based on the general principles or relevant provisions of directive 95/46/ec on personal data, particularly articles 25 and 26. this personal data directive remains in force. according to article 25 of this particular directive, transfer of personal data is permitted only if the third country ensures an adequate level of protection. article 26 of the same directive provides for the strict and explicit conditions under which it is possible to transfer personal data to third countries in other cases. the framework decision on data protection in the field of judicial and police cooperation will also be another very helpful instrument. we made a promise. the promise is to adopt, in agreement with parliament, a framework decision on personal data protection by december. i am very confident that we will be able to get this very important political result. why? because the portuguese presidency seems very determined to reach this goal and there seems to be an overall consensus among member states. you perhaps know that we discussed the framework decision on data protection at the last formal justice and home affairs council. on this, of course, i warmly wish close cooperation with parliament, even closer than in the past, during the coming weeks. i think we have the common goal of getting it adopted before the end of december.
madam president, commissioner, you have slipped through the articles of the treaties like a skilled legal skier. i ask you and beg you for a clearer answer: does the commission agree that these council decisions ignore the clear position of the european parliament and the relevant resolution, weaken the protection of citizens' personal data and attempt to circumvent the review of the court of justice of the european communities? my question is simple. does the court of justice of the european communities have the power to overrule the council's decision under article 24 on the basis of the council's decisions?
the dispute between boeing and airbus is a point of contention in commercial policy with serious economic repercussions. however, it should not be dramatized. it is also far from the bilateral trade wars of the past. what makes this dispute problematic, ladies and gentlemen, is that it arose following the unilateral denunciation of the relevant bilateral contractual framework by the united states. this complaint in turn triggered the union's reasonable reaction that the us subsidies were incompatible with wto rules. whatever the merits of the arguments of both sides, it is true that the reallocation of market shares in favour of airbus and the consequent loss of competitive advantage for boing was politicised to such an extent that it was necessary to call for the activation of the protective reflexes of the us administration by bringing the matter before the wto's judicial mechanism. the union has rightly sought an agreed solution to avoid the conflict escalating beyond the limits of negotiation. but he didn't get a response. i hope you will meet. otherwise, the gravity of the dispute under discussion and its intense politicization will undoubtedly be a testing ground for the jurisdictional resilience of the wto system. in such a case, the resolution of the dispute should further enhance the credibility and international leadership of the body, which go beyond the balance of power and the balance of interests. the outcome of the case is expected to have a wider impact on the economies of the two partners in terms of employment conditions, trade balances and technological development. we hope to resolve this dispute.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers in this very interesting debate for their positive contributions. i agree with most of the speakers, especially ms mcguinness, mr tomaszewska and mr matsakis, who said that this committee is one of the most important committees and that it connects european citizens with the european union’s institutions. i fully agree and i am willing to cooperate as much as possible in order to respond to the concerns of european citizens. i would like to answer two main questions: how to conciliate the precautionary principle with the need to have evidence before attacking a member state. i am aware of the issues raised by mr hammerstein and i would like to say that legal enforcement action can only challenge decisions formally taken by member states in breach of european union law. the commission cannot initiate legal proceedings on a judgment of intent. therefore, until a decision is formally taken, there is no room for legal action. regarding the issue of the speed of action, the commission needs to respect the procedural requirements of the treaty and to make sure that it has developed the right arguments and compiled the necessary evidence where court action is needed. this can take time. nevertheless, in december 2006, the commission – myself, actually – for the first time obtained an interim order from the european court of justice in the environment domain, suspending illegal hunting rules in italy before the main legal action was heard. on 18 april 2007, we obtained our first interim order in relation to an infrastructural project. each case needs to be evaluated on its own merits, even if recent initiatives from the commission, supported by the european parliament, such as those relating to illegal hunting in italy, which i have previously referred to, or to the rospuda valley, illustrate the interest of using this procedure in order to protect the environment. it should not be used as a routine mechanism. this mechanism should only be used for high-profile cases where the adoption of interim measures can have a pedagogical effect. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his very informative report, which i sincerely hope will contribute to raising the visibility of the work of the committee on petitions, and i assure you, once again, of the commission’s firm commitment to collaboration with you all.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i asked for this report when i found that, despite the fact that in the 20th century earthquakes caused 1.5 million deaths and many more injuries worldwide, despite the fact that earthquakes are the second most deadly natural disaster in the world, and finally, despite the fact that for the period 2002-2007 in the member states and the candidate countries it was the fourth most frequent natural disaster, in the european union we were facing the phenomenon of earthquakes sporadically and regionally and only in the context of other natural disasters. i am pleased and honoured today that my report has been adopted by the committee on regional development with the support of all the political groups. the message from the european parliament is clear. the european union must not and cannot now deal with the earthquake phenomenon sporadically and regionally. we must focus on it individually and independently and examine all the individual aspects and components. the report calls on the commission to draw up a communication on the assessment of earthquake risks, in which prevention, management and response and recovery measures are addressed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european parliament expects the commission to consider in the context of such a communication - and not only - a number of proposals contained in the report, such as: firstly, to make seismic protection a necessary condition for the financing of infrastructure by the structural funds in the future. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, to promote, as well as new construction, the protection and upgrading of old buildings and structures, including our monuments, which do not meet seismic standards. thirdly, the european commission should provide more funds for public information and training of professionals involved in earthquake response. fourthly, to create a european earthquake research strategy, taking into account not only the social but also the economic benefits of this action. fifthly, to draw up a technical protocol for joint action by the european union in the event of major earthquake disasters, with particular emphasis on critical transport, energy, telecommunications and health infrastructures. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european civil protection force is a good one, but it is not enough to make it a legal instrument. the report which parliament is going to adopt tomorrow, mr president, mr commissioner, makes specific proposals and we want both the commission and the member states to respond immediately and to take action in their respective areas of responsibility. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and the colleagues from all the political groups who, with their contributions and amendments, have improved my original proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, earthquakes are inevitable, but we can take protective measures to minimize damage and death. so it is possible for there to be security for the peoples. the rapporteur has suggested a number of appropriate measures, and i shall not repeat them. however, i would also like to stress the need for pre-seismic control and reinforcement of structures which are in difficulty, not only in public but also in private buildings such as factories, nurseries, entertainment centres, i.e. public gathering places. at the same time, it is necessary to protect and develop free space for the movement of the population after a catastrophic earthquake, because the profitability of the land has boosted cementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. seismic protection measures should start from areas with a higher seismic risk. in fact, they are the densely populated and socially, economically and housingally degraded areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is the people's money, but also a state concern, with standards that will be adapted to the territorial and housing conditions of the area, in order to provide the maximum possible seismic safety and upgrading of housing. in oc
on behalf of the ind/dem group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and from the fire, mr. president, you can escape and from the flood, if you know how to swim, you can escape. in an earthquake, you have to have god with you. and since this is part of our metaphysical aspirations and hopes, it would be good to have the european union with us, which unfortunately sometimes we do not have, because we have seen that the solidarity fund was activated only in one case of earthquakes, while in other cases of floods and fires it showed great willingness. we realize that the restrictions stipulate that the damage must exceed 3 billion, yes, but the houses that fall are not onassis's or mr. gates's, they are the homes of poor people. we can therefore bypass them and - because the mediterranean region has often been subjected to an intolerable ordeal which is tantamount to an unjust physical punishment - we call for the activation, if possible, of the structural development fund, the solidarity fund if it can moderate its severity, the european regional development fund and also the protection of citizens, in order to finance research projects which are absolutely necessary, but also to make good the damage where it is humanly possible and also legally achievable.
madam president, the subject of today's debate is mis- phrased. the success of the globalisation era is not in the european interest and the welfare of workers in the countries of the european union, but in the interest of capital. the new order of things shaped by the interests of business and multinationals in the context of globalisation - at community and international level - aims to increase the profits of capital through the intensification of the exploitation of workers. the statements made by mr sarkozy yesterday on globalisation confirm the european union's support for big business, underline the intensity of the inter-imperialist contradictions and the desire to use the european union as an aggressive bulwark against the other big imperialist centres and, above all, against the conquests and demands of the workers. the common denominator of all these pursuits is the full-frontal attack on the workers. reducing wages, increasing working time and adapting it to capital requirements, raising the retirement age, flexicurity and the restructuring of industrial relations are the main thrust of the lisbon strategy. we therefore consider that any cloak of globalisation cannot be used to judge the harsh reality experienced by millions of workers. the arguments put forward by the commission and the council on the protection of the environment are also not convincing.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. in this internal dialogue, as in any opening up of the european union to the rest of the world through policies on economic, social, environmental, security, sustainable development and migration, the european commission must highlight and safeguard the cultural 'culture' of the european union. the commission should immediately highlight, in its annual legislative work, in the lisbon strategy and in the process of ratifying the reform treaty, the following aspects of the cultural sector: first, the promotion of cultural industries based on high-quality and innovative services, which provide significant productive and innovative potential for the european economy. the importance of this area is important for intercultural dialogue. secondly, the protection of the so-called knowledge triangle, namely research, education and innovation, which unfortunately has not been accompanied by legislative acts until now, whereas it should be one of the ambitious strategies of the european union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. madam president, the european commission and the council should clearly define their positions on how to meet the challenges of globalisation through an open dialogue, first of all with the national parliaments. globalisation can emerge as part of european history if it can be imbued with the culture of european civilization.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. as a rule, globalisation is perceived by european citizens as an external phenomenon, i.e. without any significant european regulatory and political intervention. it is therefore the responsibility of the european system of action to demonstrate that it is indeed protecting a visible and measurable european interest while promoting global understanding. as regards the union's external trade agenda, i believe that priority should be given to ensuring reciprocal conditions of access to the market and equal conditions of competition, as the president of the french republic, mr sarkozy, emphasized yesterday. the strong european regulatory framework for environmental protection, consumer health and workers' health is an important indication of the union's political and institutional maturity. however, in order not to constitute a prolonged competitive disadvantage for the union, it should be met with an equivalent response from other leading international actors. synergy between the internal and external aspects of the lisbon strategy will help to promote the european model in the global governance arena. it is, however, affected by the reduced regulatory intensity and binding comprehensiveness of both the world trade organization and other international organizations. the union is called upon to play a leading and constructive role in increased international cooperation. it called for the adoption of binding commitments and international standards to promote regulatory convergence on an upward scale.
acting president of the council. madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, this was a long and intense debate, and i suppose that of all the debates in which i have taken part on behalf of the presidency in this parliament, this was the one with the largest number of participants and members who have expressed their views here, because this is obviously a subject of the greatest importance and the greatest urgency and a subject, let us not be under any illusions, difficult and also controversial, on which, moreover, we have had very different opinions, analyses and comments here. but there is, i suppose, a common conclusion, is that globalization is here and it's here to stay and to develop and to have new manifestations. there is no going back, no going backwards, we cannot go backwards in history, globalization is itself the result of humanity's march towards the future. and what we have to do and what we have to analyze and what we have to decide is about, of course, how to get the most out of it, the greatest benefits of globalization, by reducing or eliminating all the known risks that are associated with that same globalization, and never losing sight of, and this is very important to me, that globalization should serve man, it should be at the service of man and the citizen and not the other way around. it is not the man, it is not the citizen, it is not the human being who should be in the service of globalization. there is also little doubt that in order to take full advantage of the benefits that globalisation can bring, we in europe must equip our companies, large but also small and mediumsized enterprises, with the tools and policies to enable them to meet the challenges of economic globalisation, that we must train and qualify european citizens and that we must also reform our social model. it is not a question of diminishing it, of weakening it, but of strengthening it, of adapting it, so that our social model can successfully face the challenges and threats that globalisation can bring to our social model. we must also recognize that the european union has proven itself in protecting the environment, has shown itself in leadership and in being able to show the way, to show the future, as no other regional bloc in the world has done, and we will demonstrate this very clearly from the negotiations which will begin in bali next december. finally, a word about the so-called external dimension of the lisbon strategy, which is closely linked to the issues of globalisation. the point is to invite others, who share with us this path of globalization, these difficulties and these challenges of globalization, to share with us values and principles of economic, social and environmental, is of course to make very clear that globalization will only be successful for the benefit of all if, indeed, we can wake up in a world, a social world, an economic world, an environmental world that is truly regulated for and in the service of all. this is a fundamental aspect. and on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, let us not be naive, we believe that with sound policies, with sound principles, with sound values, we can indeed, as i say, achieve what is for us a fundamental objective: globalisation at the service of humanity.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's communication on the european interest, which was the basis for today's debate, is nothing more than a kind of stimulus speech. this is not the lisbon plan for the next three years. this is a document which should stimulate the debate in the european council and the european parliament so that the commission can incorporate the results of this debate into the proposals which will be made for the next lisbon cycle. these proposals will not be made until december. they are not on the table today, and that is why those members who criticised the commission for not having put forward any concrete proposals have made a mistake. that wasn't the point today. the commission was asked today what you, the representatives of the european electorate, have to say to the commission in order to put this into words. and i would like to respond positively to a lot of what has been said here. the guidelines will remain the central instrument of the new lisbon package. the president also made it clear that the instrument has proved its worth and that we will not change the instrument as such, but it will of course be designed in such a way as to allow us to take due account of the experience of the last three years and to give greater weight to the issues that have come to the fore in the last three years. i would like to give you a few examples. we will have to put more emphasis on the link between competitiveness, energy and the environment. that has been called for several times in this debate today. that's exactly right. we must put an end to the isolationist policies. we need a fully integrated approach. we must put more emphasis on the development of concrete proposals for creating the global competition we want on equal and fair terms, that is to say, the external dimension of competitiveness. we must pay much more attention to the question of how structural change is accompanied socially. and that seems to me to be the very big question in the debate today across all the groups. she's entitled to it. let me say something about that. i think it is a mistake to present investments in social stability and social security as gifts, as charities. on the contrary, they are also investments in economic efficiency. because it is quite clear that europe's economic performance is determined by the fact that we have a highly motivated, highly efficient workforce, and we have that because we have a high level of wages and a high level of social security. it is not that economic and social aspects are opposed to each other, but that, as has been said many times today, they complement and condition each other. i think that is a very important point. i would also point out that, in the light of the fact that we have a shortage of trained and qualified workers in an increasing number of regions and sectors, the question of employability needs to be addressed much more sharply than before. so i think we're in broad agreement on that. i would also like to point out that the commission also believes that the turbulence on the financial markets which we have recently experienced must be the occasion for international, multilateral action. we cannot simply let this go on, because it is, as has been said, an inherent structural defect in the international financial system. it is not a matter of individual failures on the part of the managers who are now being sent into the desert with compensation of between 100 and 200 million dollars, but it is a structural defect. i would like to make three very brief comments on the great debate which has taken place here today on the subject of globalisation. firstly, it is so difficult to find a common european policy in this debate because there is no agreement on what the european interest actually is. in our daily work we are constantly confronted with a very different definition of the european interest. depending on the situation, the european interest is low prices in the supermarket of one member country or a high level of employment in the industry of another. and that is a contradiction that cannot be resolved so easily. or a high level of employment in the steel industry in liège - a very recent example - or a high level of environmental standards in the european emissions trading system. we are constantly faced with these conflicts, and there is no common line between 27 member states on what is in the european interest. secondly, we cannot act as if we say that globalisation was good as long as it consisted of the domination of the poor countries of the south by the rich countries of the north. she was good for that long. and globalization is bad, where the countries of the south become competitors. i can't do that. and what is not possible is to approach the developing regions with the demand for high environmental and social standards, but not to be prepared to change our own policies. what i hear in europe today is that china, india, they need to change their environmental and social standards. that is true, but the chinese and the indians feel that this is pure european protectionism, because we have built our prosperity on using lower social standards and lower environmental standards, and now we tell the others that we want to keep what we have, but you cannot have it. this policy, ladies and gentlemen, is doomed to failure. i'll tell you what. the only thing that works is we have to demonstrate to these emerging economies that another way is possible. that it's possible to turn an ecological and social challenge into an economic opportunity. that is why we have an ecological industrial policy. i think we are largely in agreement on this point and, in the light of this, the commission will now work intensively to put forward proposals for the next lisbon cycle. they will then be dealt with by the spring council in march, so that the european parliament has ample opportunity to express its opinion on the concrete actions and proposals before the final decision is taken in march next year. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (summary declaration in accordance with rule 142)
on behalf of the ind/dem group. mr. president, i saw the entire western world, led by america, calling for a shortening of the time for the elections in pakistan. holding elections without ensuring that the opposition gets out of jail, that mr. akhtar, who is the president of the supreme court, gets out of house arrest. developments in pakistan, beyond the consequences that will certainly arise in that country - and i mean the expected political instability and the negative impact on the economy of a country that is being manipulated in any way - may create other parameters of regional and wider-ranging developments that will affect stability throughout asia. it is absolutely impossible for me to dissociate developments in pakistan and kashmir from those in afghanistan. i suggest that the european union should insist on safeguarding the large nuclear arsenal, even through the united nations, at least until the country returns to its political and - if possible - democratic status quo.
mr president, commissioner, the bali conference is called upon to promote an ambitious and realistic framework for the period after 2012. there is no room for further postponement. global warming must be addressed immediately and decisively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the benefits far outweigh the financial costs. but this requires a broader agreement with concrete commitments to reduce emissions, not just wishful thinking; commitments to address emissions from international aviation and maritime transport, to capture greenhouse gases through sustainable forest management, to change production and consumption patterns, and to land use. but to achieve this, the commission must recall the objectives it has forgotten about in the bold promotion of renewable energy sources, it must push for more bold objectives and show a stronger political will. that's what we're waiting for, mr. dima.
i would like to begin by congratulating you, commissioner, on your efforts on this important international issue of climate change. mr president, the fight against climate change must be the catalyst for the creation of a new development model that will redefine existing policies towards environmental protection, combining economic activity with respect for natural resources and social welfare. the european union must take the lead and ensure that negotiations do not end with the extension of the flexible mechanisms of the kyoto protocol. in bali, an agreement should be sought that takes an environmental perspective, while also exploiting opportunities for technological innovation, economic development and job creation. the transition, for example, to a global low-carbon economy through the interconnection of carbon markets and emissions trading systems is on the right track. the bali conference should be the opportunity to formulate a comprehensive post-2012 proposal with binding and long-term objectives.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the thoroughness with which they have covered the subject. i would like to point out, however, that since one of our main objectives is to create a zone of peace, we must also be concerned about the political future of these countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals. does any of us know what will happen in the post-mubarak era? i'm afraid none of us are. do we not realize that sooner or later this country will be taken over by the muslim brotherhood, which is a large islamic extremist organization? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would not like to repeat here, once again, the proposal i made last year, in the previous debate on the report, for the creation of a commonwealth between these countries, which would go on to deepen political neighbourhood relations. finally, i would point out that the european neighbourhood policy was promoted alongside the accession of the ten, with the aim of mitigating the creation of new dividing lines with the neighbouring countries. the european neighbourhood policy must therefore remain united, geographically coherent and balanced between its eastern and southern legs. furthermore, given the political, economic and cultural differences between the countries participating in the european neighbourhood policy, the principle of differentiation should remain crucial, but should not be used in a way that creates greater distance between those countries.
acting president of the council. i am well aware of this situation, mr president, and i am well aware of the question raised by the maltese government in this connection, and your question is based on the answer i gave earlier to a fellow member: the presidency is aware, portugal as a member state is aware, portugal is also a country of the south, and therefore we will also do everything in our power to make this expression 'solidarity' come to fruition in practice, not ignoring the difficulties, not ignoring the problems, they exist, they exist, but as in many cases this is also a matter of perseverance and persistence.
acting president of the council. mr president, i do not know whether this is possible or whether it is regulation, but when you introduce the question i would like to know exactly which member of parliament, who is the author of the question, because he is obviously the first addressee of my answer. as i am sure you are aware, madam president, the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common rules and procedures in member states for returning illegally staying third-country nationals lays down specific rules for the treatment of third-country nationals who are found to be staying illegally in member states. article 13 of the proposed directive provides in particular for guarantees as to the conditions of stay until their return of all persons covered by the directive. article 15, which lays down the conditions of pre-trial detention, defines the treatment to be accorded to third-country nationals pending their return. paragraph 3 of the same article states that the situation of vulnerable persons must be given special attention and contains specific provisions on minors. as the honourable member is also aware, the european parliament and the council are currently considering this proposal for a directive.
i would like to thank mr president, and i repeat what mr moraes said, that you are very good at giving us theoretical answers and details. but what is the responsibility of the member states while your analyses are not yet available? are there international treaties, are they applied uniformly in all member states, or do some member states offer more or less for some specific reasons? what is the responsibility of the acceding countries through which the illegal immigrants, mainly children and women, pass? i also mentioned to the commissioner at yesterday's meeting that up to a 14-year-old illegal migrant transporter has been arrested.
acting president of the council. i have just mentioned, madam president, that a proposal for a directive on this subject is currently being discussed between the council and the european parliament. as the proposal for a directive has not yet been adopted, i cannot tell you specifically what measures this directive will propose for the defence and protection of the most vulnerable, those who need the greatest protection. we'll see about that. now this proposal for a directive has that concern, concern for the protection of the most vulnerable. i can also tell the honourable member clearly that when she refers to the issue of illegal immigration, we, the portuguese presidency, always say that the fight against illegal immigration is based on two fundamental concepts: solidarity and respect for people and respect for the humanitarian dimension, for the humanitarian tragedy behind this phenomenon. we must not treat people as objects, and the presidency, and portugal, does not accept, and has never accepted, that in these situations the humanitarian dimension, the human dimension, is not considered or is considered secondary. this is our position of principle as the presidency and our position of principle as a member state of the european union, a position which we will not abandon under any circumstances.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president of the council, in the four years since the adoption of the european security strategy, which was adopted, as you know, in december 2003, the european union's foreign and security policy has undergone a dynamic development. we have successfully responded to the threats we have identified in the european strategy by following the guiding principle that has guided our approach. we had to be more active, we had to be more consistent and we had to be more competent. terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, the degeneration of the state, organised crime: these new threats have been met in concrete terms and through a number of actions reflecting the panoply of instruments which the european union now has at its disposal - instruments which are diplomatic action, civilian and military missions, commercial activities and development activities. we have supported effective multilateralism by supporting and increasing our cooperation with the united nations in crisis management, counter-terrorism and non-proliferation. our operations in the area of european security and defence policy are our most visible contribution to global peace and security and demonstrate our willingness to assume global responsibilities. since 2003, we have launched 16 crisis management operations, four of them military, 12 civilian, in different parts of the world. these european security and defence policy operations span three continents and range from purely military operations, through security sector reform and institutional development, to police missions for the rule of law. from aceh to ramallah, from kinshasa to sarajevo, the union is providing the main catalysts for peace and stability. and the pressures on the union are mounting. we have just decided in principle to lead a military mission to chad and the central african republic to help to relieve the regional repercussions of the darfur crisis. we are also prepared to lead a police mission to the rule of law in kosovo. from the western balkans and eastern europe to the mediterranean, we have been actively working towards peace and stability in our neighbourhood through every means at our disposal. the efforts of the high representative javier solana, the enlargement policy of the union, the barcelona process, the european neighbourhood policy which we have just discussed here, the eu special representatives in bosnia herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, moldova, the south caucasus and the middle east peace process, as well as the union's role as a member of the quartet on the middle east and the troika on kosovo and the other esdp missions which i have mentioned here, i suppose reflect well our determination to create security in our neighbourhood.
i thank you, mr president, for your answer. i have a sincere feeling that the european security strategy has more success to show in missions outside the european continent than in challenges on the periphery of the european union. i think that situations such as that in kosovo, the management of an emerging crisis, political selectivity in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, a candidate country for accession whose political system is literally highly pathogenic, the plausible or not plausible russophobia that our colleagues from the former eastern european countries are experiencing, pose challenges to a more coherent and effective formulation of a european security strategy.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr zaleski on his excellent work. ukraine is an important trading partner of the european union. we support its accession to the world trade organisation and negotiations for a free trade area with the union. to this end, ukraine's economic performance needs to be further developed in order to bring it as close as possible to the european union economy. furthermore, more effort is needed to effectively address challenges in ukraine, including: fighting corruption, tackling illicit trade, enhancing cooperation with the union in the fields of science, technology and education, and building closer cross-border cultural links. if ukraine continues to push harder for the reforms it has undertaken, i believe the desired results will not be long in coming.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with most of mr braghetto's views on the restoration of tuna stocks. i think we all want seas with adequate fish stocks. i would like to express two concerns. firstly, it provides for the submission of a detailed bluefin tuna fishing plan by fishing vessels, in order to ensure greater control. i believe that the situation of this fisheries plan is only possible with large tuna-fishing vessels, not with small vessels that fish tuna in addition to other species. we all want to control tuna fishing, but we do not want to exclude the states with small boats. besides, there's a great fishing tradition here. secondly, this point is referred to in amendment no 3, which links the capacity of the fattening plants to the national quota. the farming of bluefin tuna in the european union is carried out in countries other than those with the large quotas. my country, for example, is not one of the most favoured countries in the matter of quotas. on the other hand, we have comparative advantages in terms of raising him. why should we reduce the capacity of our units to the level of our quota? in conclusion, i would like to mention here the unacceptable fact that tuna fishing was banned in september because two european union countries caught quantities that all the countries together should have caught. these countries must be subject to appropriate sanctions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for the interest expressed in the cross-border management of music rights and the 2005 recommendation on online music. the commission’s 2005 online music recommendation aims to allow the music market in europe to develop in the digital environment. it aims to create a framework in which the best new online licensing model will emerge by agreement between the market players. this should allow authors, composers and music publishers to get a fair share of the distribution of their online works. the recommendation does not prescribe a particular eu licensing model, and leaves implementation of its principles to the market. exactly two years after adoption of the recommendation, the commission is assessing the development of online licensing practices in the music sector in europe. stakeholders were invited to comment on emerging online licensing trends by 1 july 2007. the commission received 88 replies from interested parties, such as collecting societies, authors, creators and music users in member states. the process of reviewing the submissions is still ongoing. only after a thorough examination will the commission assess further policy steps regarding the online operations of collecting societies. the submissions analysed so far show that most stakeholders do not see the need for a framework directive, and prefer market-based solutions to regulatory invervention. on the question of whether the 2005 recommendation is limited to online sales of some recordings, the commission would like to point out that the principles on transparency and governance set out in the recommendation should not be limited to online music sales and should apply to all the activities of collecting societies. to conclude, while the online market for music is still in flux, legislating in favour of a particular licensing model would appear premature. the commission will monitor developments and report back to parliament and the council as foreseen in the recommendation. any follow-up, if necessary, will be closely coordinated with the european parliament and the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, on 13 march 2007 the european parliament adopted a resolution on the crossborder collective management of intellectual property rights. in its resolution, parliament called on the commission to present as soon as possible a proposal for a framework directive to regulate the collective crossborder management of intellectual property rights and related intellectual property rights for legal online music services. it also called on the commission to clarify that the 2005 recommendation in this area applies only to online sales of music recordings. can the commission inform parliament of the measures it has taken to date to respond to parliament's requests? can the commission inform parliament whether it is on the same lines as president barroso's guidelines and directives for a united, democratic and fast-growing europe? when will the commission respect the rules of procedure of parliament and the majority votes of its 785 representatives? the resolution of 13 march reflects a clear position of the european parliament on crossborder collective management of copyright. the establishment of the commission was the first step towards a future convergence of the different practices in the 27 member states. i myself, on behalf of the committee on culture, presented in my opinion to the committee responsible the importance of ensuring equal treatment for all rightholders, whether authors, composers, publishers, record producers, performers. in other words, the issue concerns millions of rights holders throughout europe. the current regime for online services is considered to be inefficient, both for rights users and for rights holders. so we have all worked to present to the commission and the council the proposals that we think would bring about a change for the better in collective copyright management. close cooperation between rights managers should be maintained for the benefit of all parties. the biggest problem in the music industry today is still piracy. three of the reasons that help to develop piracy internationally are: first, the technological facilities for low-cost illegal copying; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internet is not used for commercial purposes. we should all bear in mind that the growth of music piracy is affecting smaller countries more, where the music industry is mainly local and regional in nature. in particular, piracy is causing a shrinking of the legal music market, resulting in a fall in legal sales and therefore affecting the viability of the national record label. it is true that it causes losses in copyright for composers and songwriters, but also losses in taxes for the state - either income or value added tax. the fight against piracy should therefore be included among the first objectives of the commission in any legislative proposal on the subject of collective management of copyright. i would therefore like to call on the commission to take action as soon as possible to respond to parliament's requests and to present a proposal for a framework directive to regulate the crossborder collective management of intellectual property rights. finally, as i always say, music is not a commodity and it is up to all of us to protect and promote creativity in europe. a directive that will probably come in 2010 is a disaster for millions of creators in the european union.
i would like to congratulate you, mr president, and mr commissioner, on your two statements and i hope that you will continue to make constructive proposals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the social reality check should provide guidance for the social policy of the member states and take account of the fact that europe is currently facing serious demographic problems which directly affect social cohesion and solidarity between generations. the family continues to be ignored by the states in the support it should receive, even though it is the basis of society. the poverty of families, not only single-parent families but also families with many children, is increasing due to a lack not only of income but also of social support and equal treatment, particularly in the tax field. the living conditions of families also have a direct impact on children, especially the most vulnerable. their unequal access to resources and opportunities is increasing, with the result that their personal development is being constrained as well as future economic growth and european cohesion. could the european union not provide for every child born in the union an income for his or her survival and development which is in proportion to the per capita income of each member state? the policy to promote social cohesion must be based on participation in the labour market, but must also contribute to the social integration of inactive people and those providing informal services within the family. for this reason, member states are invited, in particular, to explore ways of recognising the non-formal qualifications acquired in the provision of childcare services and care for dependent persons as prior training and experience, in order to facilitate their integration into the labour market and the provision of pension and insurance rights. intergenerational solidarity must be maintained through the exploitation of the knowledge and experience of older people, their dissemination and their use by younger generations. member states are invited to promote systems of mutual service between generations and to invest in volunteering systems, whether educational, cultural or entrepreneurial. this will be achieved through the creation of appropriate infrastructure and information to increase the participation of older people in such activities, so that they do not become marginalised and victims of social exclusion.
in writing. the eu's european neighbourhood policy report the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. it is part of the eu's overall imperialist strategy throughout the world. the report uses, as usual, the 'democratic reforms' and 'democratization' in the neighbouring countries as the most appropriate pretext for extortion and pressure on governments that do not align with its policy, to support and finance the action of various 'civil society organisations' to develop their subversive role within these countries and to promote the eu's interventionist projects. parliament called on the neighbouring countries to contribute to the eu's anti-migration policy by intensifying repressive measures against migrants. to cooperate closely with all its repressive mechanisms (europolice, frontex) by integrating them into the eu's plans to restrict democratic freedoms, to strike at popular movements, under the pretext of fighting terrorism. it openly calls for 'joint action with the us to promote common objectives', namely joint imperialist interventions and the sharing of the spoils. it is in the interest of the peoples to oppose and overthrow the imperialist designs of the eu and the usa in the region, to strengthen their struggle for their national independence and popular sovereignty.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the christian communities in the middle east.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission is aware of and strongly condemns discrimination on the grounds of religion and belief. our policy is to fight all types of discrimination, and we do it in bilateral relations and multilateral forums such as the un. at the un general assembly, the eu has taken the approach of tabling its customary resolution on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief. last year, the consensus on the text of the resolution gathered a record 99 co-sponsors. together with the member states, we are paying very close attention to the human rights and democracy situation in partner countries. we raise those issues in political dialogue meetings via demarches and public statements, reminding partners of their commitments under international law prohibiting discrimination on any grounds. the eu is actively seeking to advance the cause of human rights protection under the neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy action plans cover a wide range of issues in this regard. the individual meetings of the subcommittee on human rights with jordan, israel, morocco, lebanon and tunisia have already reviewed the progress made in the implementation of the enp action plans’ commitments on human rights and fundamental freedoms. the first meeting of the human rights subcommittee with egypt is scheduled for later this month. in parallel with bilateral contacts with governments and support for political reforms, we are supporting non-governmental organisations worldwide that are active in protecting and promoting human rights. we believe that human rights defenders play an indispensable role in society. we find it equally important to maintain and further increase freedom of religion in europe. the eu can show and share good practices.
mr casaca has asked to be heard on a personal matter, pursuant to rule 145 of the rules of procedure.
mr. casaca, you have exceeded the limits of interference in a personal matter. the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on uzbekistan.
member of the commission. madam president, the recently adopted new strategy for central asia reflects the commitment of the european union to enhanced long-term engagement and cooperation with the region. the eu and central asian countries, including uzbekistan, have agreed to make human rights, the rule of law, good governance and democratisation key elements of the strategy. we intend to step up support for the protection of human rights and the creation and development of an independent judiciary, thus making a sustainable contribution to the consolidation of the rule of law and respect for international human rights standards in central asia. eu-uzbekistan relations have to be put in this context, where encouragement to take positive steps to improve human rights and democratisation are the basis of dialogue and cooperation. our relations with uzbekistan have gone through a difficult phase over the last few years, notably since the events in andijan in may 2005, and we remain seriously concerned about the human rights situation. it is our firm belief that we stand a better chance of encouraging progress in the human rights situation in uzbekistan by engagement rather than isolation. isolation has not worked. we welcome the gradual re-engagement that has taken place over the past year, since the eu-uzbekistan cooperation council agreed to establish a regular human rights dialogue, the first round of which was in may this year. two rounds of expert-level talks have also taken place on the andijan events. we are also planning a dialogue with uzbek civil society on freedom of the media, which should take place in tashkent early next year. we also welcome uzbekistan’s introduction of habeas corpus and the abolition of the death penalty, which should come into effect in january 2008. at the last meeting of the general affairs council, the eu member states agreed on the renewal of restrictive measures but, at the same time, agreed on the conditional suspension of the visa ban. the council urged uzbekistan to fully implement its international obligations relating to human rights and, in particular, to allow unimpeded access by relevant international bodies to prisoners, to engage effectively with un special rapporteurs, to let all ngos operate without constraint in uzbekistan and to release human rights defenders from detention and cease harassing them. the council stated that the lifting of the visa restrictions would be reviewed after six months, to assess whether uzbekistan had made progress in meeting these conditions. the uzbek authorities agreed to continue the discussion on human rights issues in the context of the eu-uzbekistan cooperation committee early next year. uzbekistan has also shown itself open to discussing with the commission ways to further enhance community assistance in supporting the reform of its political institutions, such as the parliament, and the reform of the judiciary, all of which we will discuss further in the cooperation committee. the fact that the eu’s restrictive measures remain in place clearly signals both to the uzbeks and the broader public our concerns about the situation in uzbekistan. uzbekistan has a long way to go in the area of human rights and we will continue to stress to the uzbek side, in line with the council conclusions, that we expect to see concrete progress in the human rights situation on the ground. human rights will continue to be an important and difficult issue in our relations with uzbekistan, but the commission believes that engagement is the best way to promote positive developments.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. (summary declaration in accordance with rule 142)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on somalia.
member of the commission. madam president, i fully agree with mr bowis that, as long as people talk, there is always hope. we consider it very timely to have this wake-up call on somalia today, since the situation currently poses a significant threat to peace and security, not only in the region but also beyond. it also causes immense suffering for the people of somalia. as you know, the union has taken a lead role in the somali peace process and the establishment of the transitional federal institutions. we have always strived for a political solution involving all somali parties, and commissioner louis michel carried out a last-ditch peace mission to rescue the peace process prior to the ethiopian intervention in december 2006 and has been instrumental in linking eu support to the african union peace mission to somalia and to the launch of a genuine national reconciliation congress. we have an unfolding humanitarian disaster and a diminishing humanitarian space in somalia, including a crackdown on the independent media and journalists, who are dying in targeted killings. the current levels of humanitarian distress in south and central somalia have reached alarming proportions. an estimated 1.5 million people are in need of humanitarian assistance, including more than 730 000 internally displaced persons, of whom one-third are estimated to be at extreme risk. an estimated 173 000 mogadishu residents fled the violence in the past two weeks alone. i also wish to inform you that, in response to the current humanitarian crisis, the commission’s humanitarian aid office, echo, is working with implementing partners to support 1.5 million people, providing the local population, internally displaced people and host communities with access to water, sanitation, nutrition, drugs and support for livestock and livelihoods. this year, it has allocated the highest ever budget for assistance to somalia, amounting to eur 20 million. we are also very concerned about the evolving security situation in mogadishu and other regions in south-central somalia. insurgency operations appear to be expanding and all parties have significantly increased their military capabilities in the past weeks. the eu is committed to following a multi-pronged approach that entails supporting a comprehensive security strategy, including a ceasefire process and a full deployment of the african union mission in somalia that would facilitate ethiopian withdrawal, and encouraging the nomination of a representative and effective prime minister and government while engaging and providing reassurances to the opposition, to facilitate their involvement during the remainder of the transitional period leading up to elections in 2009. the eu will also urge all parties to respect basic human rights and international humanitarian law. finally, we need to take into account the regional dimensions of the crisis and engage with ethiopia and eritrea, which are fighting a proxy war in somalia, which risks provoking their own border conflict. the commission has nominated an ec special envoy for somalia and is driving forward proposals for eu action at the general affairs and external relations council. it remains committed to working closely with the european parliament to stem violence and to find a political solution to this crisis.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda calls for voting time. (for the results and other information on the votes: see minutes)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 15 november 2007.
the final draft agenda, drawn up in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments have been proposed:
mr schulz, we shall deal with this in the order in which we are going to deal with it. wednesday: the joint debate on the community railways will take place before mrs hieronymi's report on television activities. - the ortuondo larrea report on the interoperability of the community rail system will be put to the vote at the next partsession in strasbourg. thursday: i inform you that at the time of the vote: - the report by mr leinen on the amendment of the regulation establishing the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities is adopted in accordance with rule 43 (1) and is included in the vote. - the blokland report on dangerous chemicals is postponed to the january partsession in order to reach a compromise on first reading. now, as to the matter you referred to, mr schulz: i have received a request from the socialist group to postpone the vote on the motions for resolutions on the economic partnership agreements to the december partsession and therefore to set new deadlines for tabling the texts.
mr pinheiro, this is not a question of venezuela, but of the socialist group's proposal to transfer to the december partsession the motions for resolutions on the economic partnership agreements. does anyone wish to speak in favour of this motion ?
does any colleague wish to speak against this motion ?
the vote on the proposals for the economic partnership agreements is postponed to december and the proposed deadlines are as follows: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december. i have received a request from the group of the european people's party and european democrats to wind up the debate on the commission statement on the venezuelan referendum by tabling motions for resolutions. does any colleague wish to speak against this request?
does any colleague wish to speak in favour of this request?
we are particularly pleased to welcome a delegation from the parliament of the islamic republic of afghanistan to our parliament today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the afghan parliament to express our sincere and deep condolences to your assembly and the afghan people for the terrorist attack of 6 november 2007, in which six members of your parliament and about 100 afghan citizens lost their lives. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to express its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the purpose of your visit is to initiate a regular dialogue which will enable us to accelerate a better understanding of the political and social situation in afghanistan and an opportunity to discuss the support your country needs. i am sure that you all see this visit as a symbol of our common efforts to promote democratic values and full respect for human rights throughout the world. i would like to express our satisfaction with your visit and our commitment to strengthening cooperation between our parliaments. as far as i know, you have already had successful contacts in the european parliament, and i wish you a constructive continuation of your mission, a good stay and a good return to your country.
mr president, this is not a procedural matter, but since you have mentioned such a vital matter, i should like to point out that the secretary-general has already made a statement on the possible presence of asbestos in our buildings.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the adoption by the european parliament of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2007/2218 ((aci)) (a6-0445/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee, mr costa, on his report. the report clearly shows how much tourism is affected by different community policies, but above all how important this sector is for the whole of europe. tourism is an expression of the european way of life and well-being and at the same time an important economic sector with considerable potential for growth and employment. tourism already generates more than 10% of the european union's gdp indirectly and directly and accounts for about 12% of all jobs. but it is not only europe that wants to benefit from the extraordinary economic opportunities offered by the development of tourism. we must arm ourselves to compete with other traditional and new tourism markets. europe can build on competitive advantages that already make it a highly attractive tourist destination: we have an incomparable historical heritage; we have a unique geographical concentration of attractive and culturally diverse sites. and we have a well-deserved reputation for providing high-quality services. these are the assets we need to shape the future tourism product of europe. our destinations simply have to be the best and the most attractive. you must make an offer that will make europeans and non-europeans want to spend their holidays in europe - and do so again and again. this product should meet the same requirements as other products of our economy: it should be an innovative product, which is the best possible response to consumer needs; a product that meets the highest quality standards and is also as environmentally friendly as possible. in short, a product that reflects our european values and strengths. let me give you a few examples of how we promote cooperation and competitiveness in the tourism sector. last month we had the european tourism forum in portugal, an annual event that provides an excellent opportunity for all tourism stakeholders to work together and present themselves. i had the honour of awarding the 'european destination of excellence' prize to ten european rural destinations. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. i would remind you that such an initiative was explicitly called for in the previous report of parliament, chaired by mr queiró. i thank the european parliament and especially mr costa for the generous support of this successful project and i am pleased to tell you that now, in the second round of the competition, many more countries will be taking part. we can already say that the web portal for the european destination was a success and is a good basis for expansion. we are currently exploring other ways of enhancing europe's image as a tourist destination and hope to have your support. finally, let me stress that the promotion of sustainability in tourism is a central aspect of our policy. i am convinced that if we integrate sustainability into all areas of tourism, we will protect the very competitive advantages that make europe the most attractive destination in the world today. the commission presented a new 'agenda for a sustainable and competitive european tourism' last month. the elements of this agenda are a response to the demands of this and the previous report of parliament. i think we'll continue to work well together here in the future. i hope that the 'agenda' will be adopted by all those involved in tourism and by travellers themselves. and from us, too, because in this room, we're all travelers.
the committee on regional development has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of south africa on trade in textile products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it directly and indirectly generates over 10% of the european union's gdp and employs about 12% of all workers. although it is not within the competence of the european union, there are a number of measures and actions which can contribute to the upward trend of the sector and its sustainable development. many of these are already mentioned in the report and i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this. the challenges facing tourism require a coherent policy response at european union level. an integrated and competitive framework for action with specific quantitative and qualitative objectives. with the new programming period and in view of the objectives set by the revised lisbon strategy, cooperation and synergy at all levels - european, national, regional and local - are necessary for the tourism sector to contribute to achieving these objectives. the coordination of policies and actions having a direct or indirect impact on tourism is also necessary. i would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that we have answered the question of what kind of tourism we want in the european union. we want a sustainable sector that develops in accordance with the principles of sustainability, offers a quality tourist product and service and excludes no one. now, together, acting at all levels, we can achieve that goal.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the report by alain lipietz is a useful source of ideas and policy proposals. we are pleased that the report's tone acknowledges the interconnectedness of the various aspects of the negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, such as the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental policy, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of a new environmental law, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, the introduction of new environmental laws, and the introduction of new environmental laws. we must make efforts to develop a mutually supportive and coherent policy. the european union is seeking to facilitate trade by ensuring its sustainability while contributing to other policies, such as climate change. we welcome the fact that the report recognises the prospect of negotiations on environmental goods and services. we believe that trade is an important contribution to climate change objectives. we hope that progress will be made in this area in the current round of multilateral trade negotiations on the doha development agenda. we welcome the recognition of the need for the secretariats of environmental agreements to be granted observer status in the world trade organisation, which we have also sought for the current round of trade negotiations. we also welcome the recognition of the potential of our new free trade agreements to contribute to climate change issues through specific provisions. the links between the opportunities for access to new markets, i.e. increased trade flows, and climate change policies are obvious. environmental policies provide a strong incentive for technological innovation and promote economic efficiency. the scientific and economic evidence clearly demonstrates that the benefits of mitigating climate change outweigh the costs of mitigation policies. further action to address climate change can result in significant competitive advantages for producers in countries with carbon constraints, as it will lead, along with other policies, to a reduction in the consumption of valuable resources and to environmentally friendly technological innovation for which market access opportunities are increasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. we must continue to look for more opportunities to enhance the positive contribution of trade policy to tackling climate change. i would point out that the report puts the issues of export credits, the phasing out of climate-damaging trade subsidies, and the promotion and expansion of market access for foreign direct investment in this context. these are all interesting issues that we can discuss in more detail. we must also continue our efforts on sustainability criteria in relation to forest products, deforestation and illegal logging. in conclusion, let me thank you once again for this valuable contribution to the climate change debate at a very important time, as we are only a few days away from the opening of the bali climate change conference, which we hope will provide the impetus for negotiations on an international agreement after 2012.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union must, and has largely succeeded, be at the forefront of environmental policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the adaptation of all its sectoral strategies to sustainable development standards is, moreover, a primary regulatory objective. the promotion of international trade is seen as contributing to global economic growth, and to the benefit not only of developed but also of developing countries. however, the rapidly increasing volume of cross-border trade flows also poses a challenge for climate policy. the limits of the mutually supportive or conflicting relationship between the world trade system and climate change policies are the subject of the report under discussion. the report unfortunately shows a mismatch between the commercial and the environmental components. the rapid growth of international trade should be seen solely as a factor of environmental burden. moreover, it is not enough to adopt climate policies alone, but an overall, coherent plan is needed in which environmental priorities are reflected in transport policy, trade, industrial, energy and rural policy. in any case, the union's efforts alone to tackle climate change are not enough. the union's global leadership in setting environmental and social protection standards should be continued and promoted in its trade with third countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european people's party - european democrats decided to vote in favour of the motion depending on the outcome of the votes on these points.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this development, while encouraging the economic development of countries, has a significant impact on climate change. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to make this report available to the council. what we need to do is decide how trade policy can make a positive contribution to solving the climate change problem. the target we have set for a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by the year 2020 is quite ambitious. i hope we win this bet, because the cost of failure will be enormous. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. more support and effort is needed to move towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport, to promote a more climate-friendly industry, to develop new technologies and create economic incentives for non-climate-friendly activities, to ensure effective cooperation between the united nations, the world trade organisation and the european union, and to ensure continuous consultation and involvement of civil society and environmental ngos. the european parliament has an important role to play. i hope that the outcome of the bali conference in december will also give the messages of optimism that we all want.
mr president, i would simply point out that the greek translation of this text has some important problems, particularly with regard to recitals d, e, f, h, article 20 and so on, for which the english text is considered to be authentic.
mr president, the ppe-de group has decided to vote in favour of the lipietz report on trade and climate change at this mini-plenary session. the report has merit and addresses many of the concerns we all share. however, we have decided to vote against some of the amendments to paragraphs, because we believe that global warming must be addressed through sustainable measures which do not have an adverse effect on economic growth or the long-term prospects of europe’s social model. as a political group, we are very sensitive to the issue of climate change. the european union has taken the lead in proposing far-reaching solutions on how to tackle climate change. we believe that europe’s proposals have become the benchmark for any future discussion, and that they are compatible with our economic model. we believe that global trade has been beneficial to the world economy, but at the same time we acknowledge that more needs to be done, especially in the transport sector, to reduce harmful emissions. however, world trade as such should not be distorted.
in writing. i voted against the christensen report on flexicurity because in the name of flexibility in employment relations it weakens the protection of stable employment and the safety of workers. despite all the efforts and proposals of the left euro group, the european parliament, with the compromise between the european right and the socialists, which it voted in favour of, adopted - despite the individual variations - the basic philosophy of the commission's neoliberal proposals. in the name of competitiveness and corporate profits, the achievements of the unions are now seen as "resilience" and "burden". the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the situation of young people in the community, such as the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people. the responsibility of firms towards the worker is transformed into the responsibility of society towards the unemployed. collective bargaining and the role of trade unions are drastically weakened under the new model. the european left, in cooperation with the trade unions, in its proposals both to the employment committee and to the house, is calling for the coverage of all workers, regardless of the contract under which they are employed. it argues that the right to collective action is an important part of labour law. member states are called upon to promote stable employment and to ensure and improve workers' rights and a high level of social protection.
in writing. the resolution is dressed up in costless pro-environmental colours and general slogans to obscure the reactionary content of the imperialist associations and organisations. it opposes air and road transport as being more co2-intensive than maritime and rail transport, but says freedom of choice (from multinationals) is fundamental to world trade. it calls for the trading of greenhouse gases for transport, which has failed to reduce co2 emissions but has proved to be a profitable trading mechanism for capital. it supports the goals of international monopolies for bold financing through the 'clean development mechanism-cdm'. it reserved to the eib the role of environmental watchdog acting on advice from the oecd and the g8 and asked that future proposals be those dictated by the wto. the bottom line is that natural resources continue to be seized by multinationals, forests continue to be deforested, freshwater resources continue to be restricted and degraded, desertification continues, mutants spread, toxics pollute, war conflicts and imperialist interventions perpetuate, greenhouse gases accumulate, billions of people suffer from the exploitation and profiteering of capital, and the resolution offers cover and help. that is why the kke meps will vote against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, negotiations are under way between the union and south korea to establish a free trade area. in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, i brought to the commission's attention a matter of great importance for the economy of certain areas of greece and beyond. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the limits to the european parliament's involvement in the formulation of external trade policy are well known. however, the secrecy of the commission's negotiations should not lead to a lack of transparency and democratic accountability, at least within the european union system.
mr president, i would like to raise the question of olympic airlines with the house today. i believe that the greek government has abandoned any attempt to negotiate the future of olympic airlines, thus prejudging the forthcoming decision of the european court of justice. this unacceptable attitude is in no way justified when it is known that the european union, in the context of its regional policy, has already recognised the need to equip the air carrier with modern equipment to ensure daily connections with the isolated island territory of the country. it is clear that the greek government, by a premeditated decision, has denied any right and any possibility of negotiating to save jobs, creating a huge social problem. at the same time, all those conditions are being fraudulently cancelled which would not have allowed the substantial intangible capital of olympic airlines to be liquidated. in this way the greek government and the european commission, in the name of competition, are turning greece into a second-rate destination, something that will be opposed by all the forces that aim to make the country a serious tourist destination.
mr president, i wanted to refer to a brutal attack on a greek minority journalist on 5 december in istanbul. this is mr. andreas rombopoulos, correspondent for the greek mega channel and editor of the homogeneous newspaper hxo, who was hit in the back with clubs by known unknowns, resulting in multiple fractures of the upper extremities and stitches in the head. the incident took place outside the offices of the newspaper hho in the area of pera. the perps left the victim bloodied on the ground. it is a continuation of many other events, such as the murder of armenian minority journalist hrant dic on january 19 in istanbul and the events of december 13, when bulldozers of the turkish forest service destroyed the halki transfiguration monastery. i call on the european parliament, the highest political expression of democracy in the european union, to consider carefully and to react forcefully by condemning such crimes, which come from a country which, while aspiring to be a member of the european union, attacks its own citizens.
mr president, earlier we mentioned the concern of the greek people about their airline. we need to make sure that the olympic can keep flying. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's powers are not undermined by the fact that the council of ministers has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. the dependence on this new phenomenon leads young people to illnesses that render them incapable of participating in social life and deprive them of the right to continue their education and work. at the same time, no safeguards are provided; we are therefore asking why free competition in the open market allows the production and importation from third countries and the distribution of video games and the uncontrolled, round-the-clock operation of internet cafes? how is this market controlled? what is the european grant for providing safe internet for young people? what measures are being taken to treat the computer and internet addiction diseases of young people? and how do the relevant law enforcement authorities monitor cybercrime at european level?
mr president, 1 december was aids day; the european union is also supporting the efforts of the united nations to combat aids and other diseases. the latest figures from the world health organization show that the number of people living with the virus has remained stable, while new cases have decreased. however, the numbers are still very high. i asked the european commission to propose a stamp series on aids awareness, which was subsequently encouraged by the commissioner for health, mr kyprianou. until a few months ago our colleague, mep and current greek minister for transport and communications, mr kostas hatzidakis, approved my proposal and greece printed and put into circulation a series of commemorative stamps on aids, the proceeds of which will be used to purchase medicines for use by those suffering from the virus. the commission encouraged the proposal for all 27 member states. greece has made the first move!
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs lienemann, on her excellent work. the directive seeks to protect the marine environment and must do so. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee on the environment should give greater emphasis to fisheries and the problems it has with marine pollution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught by the fishermen themselves. the involvement of both is essential in tackling the problem. i also want to express my satisfaction at the extension of the marine protected areas. in conclusion, i would say that the success of the maritime protection strategy depends on four key factors: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we cannot afford and must not allow any delay in our programme. the targets must all be achieved by 2020. if we do not achieve them by then, it will be too late to make things right. secondly, cooperation with third countries; the seas have no boundaries. we can sit at the same table and talk to all our neighbors. let us not forget that the mediterranean is home to 27 countries, of which only seven are member states. therefore, we must all sit down together and see what we can do. thirdly, there must be sufficient funds for this purpose. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. only then will we succeed. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the marine strategy directive, if properly implemented, will contribute to a viable and sustainable fisheries and contribute to a healthy sea, so that we have clean seas that give beauty.
mr president, growth within the framework of the lisbon strategy, with the objective of increasing competitiveness, that is, the profitability of the business monopolies in the european union, not only intensifies the exploitation of the working class, of workers in general, but also dramatically aggravates environmental problems and systematically destroys marine ecosystems and marine biodiversity, constantly degrades the quality of marine waters. in addition to the damage caused to seawater by pollution from ships, industrial pollution is responsible for a huge share of the pollution of seawater. it causes an unprecedented level of pollution in the aquatic environment, which is then transferred to marine waters. the marine environment and the functioning of ecosystems are also seriously affected by pollution from the ever-growing fish farms. the intrusion of monopolies into a number of previously public functions, the privatisation of public utilities and public infrastructure, and the commercialisation of public social goods such as marine water, are dramatically exacerbating the problems of the marine environment. huge tourism units of monopoly groups lead to a model of tourism development focused on high incomes, while public goods such as beaches, beaches, sea water are being plundered. marine pollution is no longer caused solely by the discharge of waste and sewage from these plants into the sea, but also by the construction of industrial plants that serve their business activities, such as the installation of desalination plants for the irrigation of golf courses and their maintenance in general. the consequences are painful for the inhabitants of entire regions. in conclusion, mr president, i would point out that the common position of the council and the commission's report do not really provide the solution needed to solve, or even to prevent, serious problems relating to the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every year 370,000 people in europe die prematurely from diseases linked to air pollution. life expectancy, according to official commission figures, in some european countries is being reduced by eight months to two years because of exposure to dangerous suspended pollutants. the vast majority of deaths are caused by fine particulate matter. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be able to accept it. but i would like to focus on some important weaknesses: the limits set by this compromise for fine particulate matter are more than double the relevant recommendations of the world health organization. the united states environmental protection agency sets stricter limits than the european union does. no agreement was reached on safer limits for particulate matter 10. the monitoring requirements have been reduced. but continuous monitoring of critical loads of pollutants is of great importance in order to improve the situation. the deadlines for compliance with the petrol directive have been postponed, leaving the main culprit, the quality of the fuel, untouched. while everyone says we need better fuels and cleaner cars, the exception is air quality and air quality control in the workplace. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we are therefore taking a positive step, but it is not enough, and that is precisely why my group supports the compromise reached by the european parliament, but also calls on the council and the commission to take more bold steps.
mr president, as the rapporteur and almost all the speakers have said, it is important to compare data between member states on population and the main family, social, economic and housing characteristics so that each member state can better deal with the issues that concern it in its policy. but at european level we need to focus on those elements which will lead to a better cohesion policy and regional development, so that inequalities are eliminated and there is homogeneity between the different social groups and the different european regions. the proposal for a regulation, by establishing common definitions and indicators, ensures comparability of data and thus promotes best practice in the member states. however, there is a need for regular evaluation and validation of the statistics collected by the competent bodies, which must be subject to quality and transparency checks. objectivity, representativeness, accuracy of the data are important issues. it is paradoxical that, while the commission is abolishing the annexes to the regulation, it is in favour of including recommended topics, which can affect the clarity and accuracy of the data, leaving the states free to do as they wish. since the aim of the proposal is to adopt binding legislation to establish common definitions for the comparability of data, i believe that these points should be deleted. we must make a cost-benefit assessment as provided for in article 5a, as the cost of collecting such data is particularly high for those states which have limited ability to analyse the details. finally, i would point out that if the amendments are not voted on, the draft will touch on very sensitive issues relating to personal, family and private life, such as the requirement to collect data on citizens' living conditions, which should be deleted, or the temperature of the water in the bathroom. why collect information on details that are not relevant to european policies? the control of misery is not done by numbers and facts.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, today the european parliament, the council and the commission will decide on the future of one of the most complex common market organisations in europe. the european parliament has delivered its opinion in time before the council's opinion, and this is due to the intensive efforts of our rapporteur, mr castiglione, as well as to all the efforts of the political groups. i would like to point out, commissioner, some points which you should take into account in the final decision of the council on the revision of the common organization of the market in wine. firstly, the review of the wine market cannot be done with a linear and accounting model, like the one you used in the common organization of the market in sugar, which we were called upon to review two months ago because it is at a dead end. the revision of the wine market cannot be based on the destructive model of the cotton and tobacco joint organisation, with the transfer of resources to the second pillar, which has resulted in the production of these two products being reduced while the countryside is being depopulated. the wine market needs a strong budget in the first pillar, on the one hand to provide direct support for measures to winegrowers, who will be called upon to improve quality and control their production, and on the other hand to strengthen the policy of promoting all wines, inside and outside europe, thus strengthening their commercial availability on the markets. the european parliament, commissioner, wants a new mca which will propose an aggressive promotion policy rather than a defensive import policy. the european parliament report guarantees aid for winegrowers who apply measures to improve supply, improve quality and protect the environment. market regulation measures adapted to current needs, such as the distillation of by-products, which acts as a mechanism to improve quality and, at the same time, to regulate the market and supply, are maintained. the commission is proposing a rationalised grubbing-up scheme which does not waste valuable community funds on reducing the potential of european wine, and the aid to winegrowers is set at the regional average without being limited to the ceiling of eur 350 per hectare. we are in favour of limiting all measures which create surpluses, which disturb the market balance and which create false and unfair prices at the expense of other wines. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the enrichment of sugar in the sugar beet sector is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report, which is a very good one. however, the new cmo must enrich and respect oenological knowledge and consumer protection through labelling policy. the committee on agriculture has provided, among other things, for the indication of the carbon dioxide content in amendment no 166, information relating to public health issues in amendment no 157 and information on the production of wine from hybrid or mutant vines in the baringdorf amendment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the wine sector is not left behind. we want to mark a new policy for the two categories of wine: geographical indications, designations of origin and table wines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in conclusion, i would like to say that the complexity of the revision of the cmo cannot be seen as a dead end or a weakness of the institutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission proposal, mr president, is aimed at reducing resources and concentrating the industry in the large cartels. the result is known; we've seen it in other crops. the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the protection of the environment, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the consequences will be dramatic: unemployment will increase and environmental problems will increase. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine market is not affected by the crisis. we reject the commission's proposal and the report of the committee on agriculture, because it introduces even worse measures: it allows the addition of sugars, in order, with foreign bodies, to increase the alcohol levels, whereas we could have the same effect with must. it also accepts the use of the term 'wine' in products not made from grapes, thus degrading the quality of european wine, which is the world's leading export. this corrosive and anti-development policy is to the detriment of european wines, of small and mediumsized winegrowers and is in favour of large companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr castiglione, on his report. a great deal has already been said about the revision of the wine market and, although i have always been one of those who have argued that, in order for community wines to progress and to gain competitiveness, they must maintain their quality, tradition and authenticity, i nevertheless recognize that the privilege of sunshine enjoyed by southern europe must not be an obstacle to production in the north. i am sure that everyone in this room wants a balanced decision. i therefore believe that, at the moment when the council is moving towards allowing the addition of sugar, it is right to provide for the maintenance of the status quo, that is to say, the promotion of flours for enriching wines, so that producers who traditionally use concentrated grapes to increase the alcohol content, and in particular those who use a genuine wine product, are not affected by the substantial price difference between sugar and flours. finally, i would add that the grubbing-up of vineyards may be considered a way of restricting community production, but we must take into account small island regions, where the member state must be able to restrict grubbing-up for social, economic and, above all, environmental reasons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's wine sector is not left behind. in conclusion, i would like to say that european wine is the best in the world. it's the wine that has the tradition. this is where the wine started! we must therefore maintain quality and tradition and have a more aggressive policy: advertising, because only at home, in europe, whereas the consumption of alcoholic beverages is increasing among young people - a very unpleasant fact - their consumption of wine is decreasing, and this shows a lack of information.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their support in the preparation of this report. i am glad that it is coming to a unanimous vote in the plenary, but that cannot prevent us from catering for the process of reformulation which the commission has chosen for this proposal for a directive. this report is very important because it seeks to lay the right foundations for the marketing of fruit trees, so that they are certified and plant health-protected, with the aim of protecting the farmer, the consumer and the environment. it is vital that the farmer can obtain healthy propagating material, both to prevent the spread of new diseases and to ensure his income, but also to reduce the use of pesticides, which we all know are a burden on the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let us not forget that with the enlargement of the european union to 27 countries, the movement of goods has become easier, simpler and less formal. that is a dangerous thing. we must be careful, because uncontrolled trade in plant products carries the risk of spreading diseases with devastating consequences for the environment and the economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that this is a dangerous tactic, especially if the commission chooses to use it in future revisions of other proposals for regulations and directives.
the rapporteur. madam president, i feel the need to thank the three shadow rapporteurs, mrs kaufmann, mr moreno sánchez and mr guardans cambó, for the long and close cooperation we have had, and all the members of the committee for the acceptance of my thoughts. the large majority with which the commission accepted my report shows that the member states must also drop their petty objections and move quickly to make this green paper a reality, a legislative text that will help all the citizens of the union.
in writing. the plant health and certification of fruit plant and fruit tree propagating material is of the utmost importance for the producer, because the initial planting of the vineyard, when it is good, guarantees good production. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. however, although we agree with most of the amendments in mr glavachis' report, we have reservations and disagree with all the amendments which accept mutated reproductive material even as a subject, because it involves risks to human health and the environment. to date, there are no scientific studies to guarantee that there are no side effects. as regards imports from third countries, we agree that there should be no derogations because there is a risk of the spread of pathogens within the european union, with repercussions on production, product quality and agricultural income.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks arising from exposure to ionising radiation. as regards animal welfare, this is an excuse to serve other interests, mainly those of transport companies, at the expense of farmers and consumers, since they increase costs without any substantial benefit to the whole. overall, the multiple compliance, without substantially addressing the environment, public health and animal health for which it was supposedly established, imposed significant amounts of burden on farmers. in our country the costs of complying with the rules on animal husbandry are unbearable for sheep and goat farmers with negligible effects on the environment, public health and animal health, which can however be effectively tackled if the production methods are compatible with the physiology of animals and plants. if, for example, gmos, meat meal, mineral oils, hormones are banned and systematic checks are made for the residues of agricultural drugs in agricultural products, then the effects on public health and the environment will actually be much better.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products is a very good one. we have demonstrated this year the added value of the european union in solving complex problems where the original plans have failed. it is not only the spectacular success of galileo that attests to this, it is also how we have been able to equip frontex with the new resources needed to meet the new challenges, but it is also the pilot projects, it is the european institute of technology. in short, the european union is showing that it can provide community solutions to large, complex problems where others cannot. that's the first positive message. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the budget for the financial year, which is to be adopted by the end of the year. the fact that we are spending 0.95% of community gdp this year, for next year, does not make me happy. i've heard some colleagues call it a success. that's not success to me. it shows that at 27, we're spending about as much as we were spending when we were 15. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council at the next meeting of the european council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to conclude with a personal observation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a great europe, a great woman, a woman who started this process, the happy ending of which we shall vote on thursday. i think for a politician who speaks with his work there is no better memorial.
member of the commission. concerning relations with croatia, that country is part of the accession negotiations and is most advanced in terms of accepting the community acquis, at the same time participating in all the activities of the energy community. because of its more advanced stage in respect of the acquis, croatia is also more integrated into the eu energy market and is leading a couple of projects. macedonia is part of the energy community and is also advancing with implementation of the acquis. its advancement in this respect means that it is a leader in the region. concerning kosovo, we are working with unmig and supporting all the activities there. i know there are always certain difficulties with payments and power supplies, but until now we have managed to resolve these issues and people have received the energy supplies they need. concerning the italy-russia pipeline south stream, i never saw this as a replacement for nabucco. nabucco is advancing well, as has been reported in the council. i have also received first notifications from the regulators concerning the third-party access issue, and nabucco is looking for new supply sources – azerbaijan, turkmenistan, egypt and in time iran. the issue of south stream is very clear-cut. it is a supply source of russian gas. it is a project that at this stage is undergoing a feasibility study that will be performed jointly by eni and gazprom. we must wait and see how the project develops. it definitely gives the european union a new supply route and strengthens security of supply, because more pipelines towards the eu mean more security of supply, but it is not replacing nabucco. concerning the praise from president putin, i have no particular comment to make.
member of the commission. the commission has no competence over the siting of power lines, which is decided exclusively by the member states authorities under the respective eu environmental law. the council recommendation of 12 july 1999 on the limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields establishes a framework of minimum restrictions and reference levels, but the member states are responsible for the implementation of the measures. as far as the possible health effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields are concerned, the scientific committee on emerging and newly-identified health risks has recently adopted an opinion which provides an assessment of the state of scientific knowledge in this area. overhead power lines are often the most cost-efficient solution for long-distance transmission of over 50 km. underground cables are also a proven technology, but until now used more for short- to medium- distances, and this is more expensive as things stand. the construction of overhead electrical power lines with a voltage of 220 kw or more and a length of more than 15 km has to undergo an environmental impact assessment. furthermore, any plan or project for overhead electrical power lines that is likely to have a significant adverse effect on natura 2000 sites is subject to the procedural safeguards set out in article 6 of council directive 92/43/eec.
member of the commission. i will start my answer with undergrounding. up until now, undergrounding cable technology has been used only in limited cases, like madrid airport. in principle there is now no limitation on the length of the cabling itself. the question is the cost. that cost would normally be around three to five times higher than overhead lines, and, to date, it has not been used for the very reason that you have two options. in fact, it has only been used when overhead lines are impossible. there are some cases where municipalities are now considering the use of cables, which will be ground-breaking cases. however, it will mean more costs for the consumer. concerning scientific evidence on exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields, there is a general limitation, there are the council recommendations that i mentioned dating from 12 july 1999, and there are minimum framework restrictions and reference levels. however, as concerns further scientific evidence on damage to health, i am not aware of a need to go beyond those safety recommendations originating in 1999. basically, overhead lines are still a viable option and i believe that the choice between overhead lines or cables is one that should be made according to the situation, if one considers that cabling is not without its difficulties too. one needs to be aware that a natura 2000 site may be involved or that there may be some impact on the environment. there is no solution that makes zero impact on the environment. at the same time, there are technology choices that could be proposed, and companies are aware of these.
member of the commission. funding from the commission to support the operation of european environmental ngos is provided through a programme that has existed since 1997. the legal basis for the current programme is the life+ regulation. the objective is to strengthen the participation of european ngos in the development and implementation of eu environmental policy. a large number of diverse ngos have been founded during the course of the programme. lists of operations and amounts are published on the dg environment website. time does not permit me to read them all out, but the list will be forwarded to the honourable member. there is no geographic differentiation in the programme, since it is targeted towards european and not national organisations. to be eligible, the organisations should pursue activities in at least three eu member states. but only one of the organisations consistently funded, the mediterranean information office for environment, culture and sustainable development, is based in greece. many of them have greek member organisations, for example, the european environmental bureau, europarc and international friends of nature. grants are awarded in a yearly call for proposals. applications are assessed against award criteria and the ngos that have the best potential to contribute to development and implementation of the eu environmental policy priorities are selected. monitoring and evaluation is ensured by the commission, based on reports submitted by the beneficiaries as well as an in-depth audit. in this process, the extent to which the organisation has fulfilled its work programme and contributed to eu policy development and implementation is assessed.
madam president, i would like to wish success to commissioner de mazza, who is representing the european union at the bali conference. i would expect more light on the specific questions i have asked, because the questions are specific, the answer was about diagrams and i would like to believe that commissioner piebalgs will mediate so that the commission can send me the data on the specific questions i have asked. i am one of those who believe that ngos are an informal form of european governance, that they play a very important role, and that this role - which is why i asked the question - should be given greater prominence. i therefore expect the data, not in terms of transparency, but in terms of the democratic accountability to which the commission is subject. in conclusion, i would ask commissioner piebalgs to use the official name adopted by the european union when referring to third countries.
member of the commission. the legal basis is very clear: it is the life+ regulation. we evaluate organisations on the basis of this regulation. that means we have particular criteria regarding which organisations may apply, but we do not evaluate the internal structure and the internal organisation. concerning the question about transparency, we definitely support transparency. we will provide answers in writing to all the questions you have asked, along with the list that i promised in my answer. i think it is important that the public can monitor the situation, because it is very clear that it is public money that is given to ngos and the process should be completely transparent. the commission does all it can to guarantee this process is transparent and accountable, in accordance with the life+ regulation.
member of the commission. ensuring that member states correctly apply eu waste legislation and preventing illegal waste activities are among the commission’s top priorities. the proposed environmental crime directive will ensure that serious environmental offences are subject to effective criminal sanctions throughout the european union. all serious waste-related crimes, including the illegal treatment, transport, export and import of waste, are covered by the proposed directive. the environmental crime initiative is, however, far from being the only action taken by the commission in order to prevent waste crime. the commission is taking a number of specific actions in areas where waste crime is a serious problem for member states. this concerns, in particular, illegal landfills and illegal waste shipments, which are covered by important eu legislation. the commission takes early action in order to prevent negative environmental and health impacts as a result of waste activities. awareness events concerning landfills and waste shipments are organised where the risk is high. last year, 16 such events took place and, this year, another 10 events are planned. multilateral meetings are also regularly held with national authorities and stakeholders to tackle bad implementation of eu waste legislation. guidelines are continuously developed regarding key eu waste legislation, such as on waste shipments and targeting particular problematic waste schemes, for example, waste electrical and electronic equipment and light vehicles. focus on such guidelines will ensure that eu legislation is uniformly and correctly applied throughout the european union. it is of paramount importance to know what is going on in the member states and to verify compliance on the ground. the commission closely cooperates with the impel network regarding, for example, joint enforcement actions on waste shipments and inspections and monitoring of landfills. systematic failures by member states to respect eu waste legislation are continuously met by legal action from the commission, including the powerful threat of fines under the ec treaty. for example, in 2003 greece was fined eur 20 000 a day for tolerating an illegal landfill on the island of crete. currently, a large number of illegal landfills in many member states are being tackled by serious infringement actions launched by the commission. the commission is also encouraging member states to make use of funding opportunities at eu level and to ensure that the waste programme expenditure under the various instruments contributes to the improved implementation of waste legislation. the eu waste shipment regulation contains the basis for cooperation between member states to prevent illegal waste shipment. we are currently examining the need for further actions in order to strengthen the enforcement of eu waste legislation, including legally binding rules for inspections of waste shipments. specific criteria could possibly be defined in order to ensure sufficient quality and frequency of inspections.
member of the commission. as for fines imposed on the member states, i would mention that, for greece, the fine is per day, and per year it is quite substantial. in my opinion, in the case of member states’ failure to enforce legislation, we should follow the legal infringement procedures that we follow, and it is the court which decides on the fine. for companies, the fines are also imposed according to national legislation if this is violated. so it is up to the member states to really strengthen these fines, because, from the commission point of view, we do what is required and we cannot prescribe the fines for not implementing vigorously enough eu legislation. it should be addressed through the court, because that is the legal structure of the european union. if there is a need to strengthen the system of fines, we will definitely follow this advice very carefully, because, basically, fines should be imposed in a way that prevents violation of the law, not just so that companies can shrug them off or pass the cost on to consumers. but, in this area, i believe that everybody shares the same objective, so i believe that the level of fines imposed today is not an issue. the issue is that legislation is not implemented vigorously enough and inspections are not particularly frequent, and that requires that the commission should take additional steps to guide the member states to take stronger action on waste crimes.
member of the commission. we have legislation on waste shipment, so this means there is common ground, and there is additional cooperation on penal matters, because the issue goes beyond waste issues. there have been developments, and current legislative processes allow companies that illegally ship waste to be penalised. i do not think we have difficulties owing to a lack of appropriate legislation, but rather because that legislation is not implemented.
member of the commission. the verification of compliance with the requirements of directive 91/271/eec on urban waste-water treatment is a complex task as it implies the evaluation of data concerning thousands of agglomerations all over the european union. the commission’s services collect and assess all information available and focus on the data included in the national implementation reports. when their assessment shows that member states are not complying with their obligations under the directive, the commission initiates infringement procedures in accordance with article 226 of the ec treaty. given the thousands of agglomerations which have to be checked, the commission has privileged a horizontal approach. thus, instead of randomly starting individual infringement procedures for each agglomeration, the commission has initiated global cases addressing the situation per member state and per core obligation. greece is one of the member states which still face significant problems in properly implementing the directive. as regards agglomerations of more than 10 000 inhabitants, greece has designated 36 sensitive areas. out of the 18 agglomerations discharging into those areas, 14 comply with the requirements of the directive. however, the commission considers that 10 other water bodies should have been designated as sensitive areas. there is an ongoing infringement procedure at this stage of a reasoned opinion. the greek authorities contest the need for the designation of those areas as sensitive. the assessment of the information sent is ongoing and, if necessary, the commission will not hesitate to bring the case before the court. as regards the specific question of the agglomeration of thriasio pedio, in its judgment of 24 june 2004, the court of justice declared that greece had failed to install a collecting system and to provide for appropriate treatment. the commission has therefore initiated an infringement procedure in accordance with article 228 of the treaty. the greek authorities have approved the construction of infrastructure required, which is co-funded by the cohesion fund. according to the information available, the project is planned to be operational by the end of 2009. as regards agglomerations of more than 15 000 inhabitants or their equivalent, out of the 75 agglomerations, 52 meet the standards laid down by the directive as regards collection systems for urban waste water and secondary treatment. with regard to the agglomerations that are not in compliance, the commission initiated an infringement procedure. in its judgment of 25 october 2007, the court ruled that 23 agglomerations still did not comply with the requirements of the directive. the commission has requested information from the greek authorities on the measures they plan to take in order to comply with the judgment. as regards the point raised on the reduction of the size of agglomerations, the commission verifies the information available and addresses any inconsistency in the framework of the ongoing infringement procedure. it should be stressed that, in order to comply, greece uses the european community funding available. as far as the cohesion fund is concerned, in greece 41 projects are currently open. the absorption rate is 49%. very often, such projects are combined projects which, apart from waste-water- and rainwater-related infrastructure, may also include water supply infrastructure. the erdf operational programme ‘environment’ co-finances nine waste water projects. these projects relate to the construction and/or modernisation of waste-water treatment plants and sewage networks. the absorption rate is 19%. as regards asserting regional operational programmes of the erdf, the question of absorption rates for the waste-water sector should be addressed to the competent regional authorities. contrary to the case of the operational programme ‘environment’, a member state is not required to inform the commission of the progress of each individual project.
in your reply, madam president, commissioner, you mentioned that dozens of major cities in greece are still without adequate waste water treatment because of the incomplete construction of biological treatment plants, although the vast majority of these have been part-financed by community funds. i ask you: can you give me the list of those cities you mentioned with numbers? secondly, how does the commission comment on the fact that these problems persist years after the implementation of european legislation? are you going to take this case to the court of justice of the european communities? and if so, when?
member of the commission. in a couple of cases we are going on with the infringement procedures. the information that we can provide, we will provide. however, in some cases i mentioned, we can inform you about progress on the operational programme ‘environment’, but we cannot report on each project, because this information is available to each member state. so you will get information that is available to us. as i made a point of saying in my answer, we are very vigorously pursuing implementation of the new acquis in this area.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the committee on transport and tourism on the common position established by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european aviation safety agency, and repealing council directive 91/670/eec, regulation (ec) no 1592/2002 and directive 2004/36/ec (10537/3/2007 - c6-0353/2007 - 2005/0228 ((cod)) (rapporteur: jörg leichtfried) (a6-0482/2007).
the commission's vice-president madam president, i am at the full disposal of mr timothy kirkhope, who is a very good pilot. if he should ever have any difficulties with the european aviation safety agency, and i do not believe that the agency has in the recent past shown any arbitrariness in this area which would be reprehensible, but if that were the case i would be the first to protest and i would be at your disposal. that said, i would also like to reassure you that the agency will not find in its regulatory and control functions tasks which would involve additional financial means, since the tasks are financed from public funds. i will simply ask parliament to ensure that the agency is provided with the means to avoid, as mr bradbourn has indicated, being obliged to charge fees which might be too heavy in certain cases. i sincerely believe that the record of the european aviation safety agency is positive. the fact that the agency's means of action still need to be improved is well understood, but i do not think that the importance of the agency for european aviation as a whole should be underestimated. i want to see proof of this in the fact that mrs marion blakey, who was the president of the faa in the united states, came to see the agency in cologne and tried to see how we could cooperate, since the faa was a very high quality agency in her eyes. mrs. marion blakey told me that personally. i listened carefully to what mr degutis said. as i said in my speech, the commission has not been indifferent to your arguments. it will assess the economic impact on the aircraft market, whether they are defined as complex or not, and, of course, i can tell you that we have heard your appeal. you are a pilot, too, i've noted that, and we're not going to settle this matter without a thorough investigation and appropriate action. you were right to insist. then, madam president, i would be unfortunate to prolong the debate too long. i have to thank parliament most of all. i believe that we have made progress on the road to security, including, as mr rack said a moment ago, a single european sky which will be established with functional blocs. mrs lichtenberger is right that these functional blocks are indispensable if we are to have a much more efficient and also environmentally friendly sky. i am very grateful to parliament, which has done a very positive job. we will have to take further steps, each in its own time, but i believe that we now have a regulation which will make european skies even safer. thank you to parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 december 2007. the court of justice shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the appeal.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european tolling mark of paolo costa, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism (o-0072/2007 - b6-0386/2007).
the commission's vice-president madam president, i always listen to parliament with great interest, but i would still like to explain some things to it. firstly, as regards the model, as you say, we have to take account of the fact that there are a number of practices in the member states and that before arriving at the model we must first ask ourselves about the calculation methods used in the various member states. i regret that, but the manual at least has the advantage of opening up public debate to try to find the best model. so i do not see how the commission, in making this effort to observe carefully all the practices in the member states in order to gradually arrive at a real calculation model which can be imposed in europe, is really missing the point: on the contrary, i believe that we are at the heart of the matter. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i also feel obliged to defend the services of the directorate-general for transport, which is now obliged to find reliable methods in this field, because if we do not have reliable methods, there will never be acceptance throughout the european union of these methods and the model, as you have said, mr stockmann. i would also like to express to mr jarzembowski my very great surprise. i am told that we must act, that we must commit ourselves to more sustainable and environmentally friendly transport, that we must defend the railways, that we must defend the rivers, that we must defend the sea! as mr leichtfried has said with great common sense, we must start at the beginning and then we will see. let us start by improving the current 'euro-vignette' directive, which is what i will propose to you, if the commission will follow me, in june 2008. at that point we will internalize the external costs of heavy goods transport because that is precisely how we will encourage the use of other modes of transport. but we shall also apply these calculation methods to them, mr jarzembowski, in the somewhat more distant future. but there is a time for everything. we cannot be asked to act and do everything at the same time. that's not possible. it takes method; if we want this policy to be accepted in the union, believe me, we must act intelligently. i have a lot of determination in this case. i'd like to thank mr. rack for his appreciation of my mountaineering qualities. i don't stop on the way, even if it goes up, even if it goes up; however, it is still necessary to maintain a reasonable pace to reach the summit.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr bogdan golik, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries (com (2007) 0268 - c6-0203/2007 - 2007/0095 (cns)) (a6-0461/2007).
in writing. as the wto discussions and commitments lead to the abolition of export refunds, cuts in community support of €20.1 billion and price cuts of between 48% and 73% for most eu agricultural products, there will be serious repercussions on farm income. the proposed regulation therefore seeks to offset the negative effects of the past gatt and previous cap revisions, which will be further intensified by the wto and the expected cap revisions. the consequences will be felt mainly in the marketing of agricultural products both in third countries and in the eu, since import duties and internal support for community agriculture will be drastically reduced at the same time. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to promote the use of the euro. but the funds for these programmes cannot compensate for these consequences in the slightest. the result will be to exacerbate the problems of the distribution of community agricultural production to third countries and within the eu, to reduce producer prices and to eliminate small and mediumsized farmers, who already have marginal agricultural incomes. on the contrary, the programmes will mainly benefit large agricultural enterprises with competitive production costs.
in writing. the european parliament resolution is identical to and in many respects exceeds the eu's reactionary policy and anti-democratic measures, which under the pretext of terrorism restricts the fundamental individual rights and democratic freedoms of workers. it called for further strengthening of police and judicial cooperation between the law enforcement and intelligence services of the member states, the euro-police and eurojust, and for more effective operation of the electronic sis ii and vis databases, in order to make the monitoring and recording of workers more widespread and effective throughout the eu. not only does it fully agree with the eu's new dimension in its 'counter-terrorism strategy', namely combating and preventing so-called 'violent radicalisation', but it calls for 'the decisive prosecution' of 'incitement to violence'. this strategy against 'radicalisation' demonstrates the real aim of the eu's so-called 'anti-terrorist' policy and its repressive mechanisms: all those who resist and question her reactionary policies. but whatever resolutions the political representatives of the monopolies may pass, they will not stop the resistance movements and the growing currents of questioning the eu itself as an imperialist transnational union of european capital.
mr president, the rise of far-right, racist groups and organisations in europe is not a coincidence. it is the result of the anti-people, reactionary, imperialist policy of the european union. this policy, whose sole criterion is to maximise the profits of european monopolies, accumulating untold wealth from the savage exploitation of the working class, widening poverty, inequality and marginalization, dramatically worsening the position of the working class family and exacerbating the problems of the working class. in these circumstances, far-right and fascist ideas, propagated in a populist and demagogic guise, find a foothold in marginalised sections or in layers with low political awareness and experience. the creation and development of such groups finds today more favourable ground than anti-communist hysteria, the attempt to rewrite history, the shameless attempt to erase the enormous contribution of the ussr to the victory over fascism, to equate communism with nazism and fascism. we see this in the recognition and legitimization by the governments of the baltic states, for example, of the local fascist groups, the ss collaborators and the nazis who operated in those countries during the second world war. fascism, racism, xenophobia are all sides of the same coin. born into the capitalist system, which breeds, sustains and feeds these fascist groups. we are therefore calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the immediate release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody.
mr president, there is a threat to democracy in europe and i doubt whether we all understand its significance. the threat is not the spread of far-right ideas but the transition from far-right ideas to far-right methods. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ideas that promote nationalism in europe, racism, xenophobia, the oppression of women, the oppression of minorities. and we are fighting these ideas with our own ideas and by trying to fight the causes, the political causes, which is mainly the problem of diversity, that the citizens of europe do not accept diversity, do not accept politics and do not accept europe itself. on the other hand, we are fighting in a different way, even by criminal means, the spread of these ideas through action which leads to violence. and in that respect, i think that this joint resolution, which has been very well considered by all the democratic parties in this parliament, is another great, i would say, political moment for our parliament - especially after what has happened today - and i am very proud that this resolution is initiated by our own group, the socialist group.
mr president, mr vernola has given an excellent - i would say, a very good - picture of montenegro, the most charming corner of the balkans. the old kingdom, which managed to border five countries, has never been absent from balkan myths. how did he do it? it should also have borders with bosnia and croatia and serbia and albania, and also with kosovo, which today may also be its problem, since, as we see in the newspapers and hear from colleagues, its unilateral declaration of independence is imminent! this could be a problem for montenegro, which is now home to a large number of albanians. the signing of the agreement on its accession, on the opening of negotiations, i think is very positive and will help to clean up both the public administration and the judiciary, but, above all, it will help to combat corruption and, i hope, this agreement itself will also contain any tendencies that may emerge on the albanian side.
member of the commission. mr president, a few points. first of all regarding russia, a point raised by various members. i would like to begin by saying that the community civil protection mechanism can be activated only upon a request by an affected country. official letters offering assistance were sent both to ukraine and the russian federation and, while ukraine answered positively, requesting assistance, russia declined the offer. but on the general issue of maritime safety, my colleague vice-president barrot wrote on 10 december to his colleague mr levitin, who is the russian minister of transport, to raise these concerns and to stress the importance of strengthened eu-russia cooperation in the black sea as well as the baltic sea – in order to improve maritime safety. addressing maritime environment problems at regional level is one of the cornerstones of the european union’s marine strategy and the proposed marine strategy directive, for which a second reading agreement between the council and parliament has been reached. i think this is a very positive development. the commission has set out its views on a strategy in the region in its communication ‘black sea synergy – a new regional cooperation initiative’. the proposal puts forward an initiative that would focus political attention at the regional level. the recent accidents in the black sea have notably involved a special category of vessels, the so-called sea/river oil tankers, which can only sail in open seas under certain restrictions. more generally the commission is concerned by the possibility that this category of vessels will trade in other sea areas of the european union or neighbouring the european union, and in particular the baltic sea. within the eu we have strict rules on maritime safety and the condition of the vessels, but we are also concerned about what happens in international waters both because it could easily affect the european union and because we are concerned about the global environment. that is why these accidents also demonstrate the importance of maintaining pressure on maritime safety issues both at eu and at international level. in this respect, as pointed out by parliament and by members already, it is important that examination of the seven proposals of the third maritime safety package is accelerated. finally, on the issue of response, the commission is also committed to continually strengthening the community response instruments, such as the civil protection mechanism, to ensure a rapid and effective response should such disasters occur again in the future. this also involves cooperation with the eu’s neighbours such as the black sea countries and of course other third countries. i would like to thank members for the debate and of course i will talk to my colleague about the interesting points you have made.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on deposit guarantee schemes (2007/2199 (ini)) (a6-0448/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank members for their contributions. in closing, i would like to make two key points. we do not believe that regulatory change is appropriate at the current time. the directive has stood the test of time well. it is able to adapt to changing circumstances. in the longer term it will be crucial from a financial stability perspective for the positive guarantee schemes to contribute to smooth crisis management in an increasingly pan-european banking environment. any further steps towards more harmonised schemes in the european union now depend therefore on the outcome of the wider work that is currently being conducted in the context of crisis management. concerning the problems raised by both ms kauppi and mr hökmark, the reimbursement of contributions to a bank that leaves the scheme, for whatever reason, is not covered by the existing directive and is therefore a matter for member state legislation. harmonisation at european level would require full harmonisation of the funding method. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ehler, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, for their very constructive approach.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by wolf klinz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on asset management ii (2007/2200(ini)) (a6-0460/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, parliament’s report shows that both our institutions’ approaches to moving forward in the area of asset management are very much aligned. we also need future decisions to be based on a thorough analysis of impacts. we both want efficient markets that respond to the needs and expectations of the european fund industry and european investors. important efforts have been made in that direction. more important efforts are ahead of us. we are committed to delivering, but we should be cautious. we need to preserve the reforms and the repute of the ucits brand. we need to take the time to involve and consult with all stakeholders, and we need to avoid unnecessary intervention that risks distorting the market but does not bring about noticeable benefits. only when all those conditions are met can we be confident that our decisions are up to the challenge. we look forward to further cooperation between our institutions in this very important area.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mr adamou, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the council of europe on cooperation between the european union agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe (com (2007) 478 - c6-0311/2007 - 2007/0173 (cns)) (a6-0443/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by genowefa grabowska, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations (com ((2005) 0649 - c6-0079/2006 - 2005/0259 ((cns)) (a6-0468/2007).
mr president, as the european union, we are called upon to re-formulate - even now - our strategy for the important textile and clothing sector. the guidelines for an overall european strategy could be formulated as follows: first, to ensure improved access for european products to foreign markets, through the maximum possible convergence on a global scale of low-level tariffs and the elimination of non-tariff barriers. secondly, to ensure that the rules of origin are applied effectively to imports. thirdly, to give substantial support, through the globalisation adjustment fund, to smes affected by liberalisation. i also think it would be useful to set up a community programme to support the sector, particularly in the most disadvantaged regions of the union. fourthly, to ensure that the phenomena of piracy and counterfeiting are effectively tackled, given that the textile and clothing sector accounts for more than 50% of the cases recorded. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by unfair practices. sixthly, to guarantee that products imported into the european union are subject to the same safety and consumer protection rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, we ask the commission, that is to say you, commissioner mandelson, to apply this system strictly and effectively. i would also like to remind you of the ultimum remedium of the safeguard measures which the european union is entitled to take. in conclusion, mr president, the liberalization of the world trade system does not mean tolerating unfair competition, illegal trade practices and, ultimately, the deregulation of the economic and social model.
mr president, in europe, and particularly in greece, the textile industry is made up mainly of small and mediumsized enterprises. many of these businesses are located in the periphery. as the european union, we have an obligation to ensure the viability of the industry within our borders and to guarantee the protection of our businesses from unfair competition and illegal trade. the european textile industry must become more competitive at international level. we need to support measures to modernise our businesses, innovation, research and development. of course, we should be gravely concerned that the transitional period on restrictions on imports of textile products from china expires on 1 january 2008. but in a more general context and for the benefit of european consumers, we must also ensure the application of binding rules on the indication of origin of textile products and the effective application of the system of surveillance of imports from third countries.
the agenda includes the debate on the six motions for resolutions on eastern chad.
mr. mazzaki, we will all respect the time we know we have been allotted.
thank you for clarifying. i am obliged to announce the speakers who have registered to speak on behalf of their political group. your political status, like all of ours, is not in doubt and we all know each other.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission is deeply concerned at the deteriorating security situation in eastern chad and strongly supports the deployment of eufor forces in full force to protect refugees and displaced persons in the region. the european union will use all the instruments at its disposal in eastern chad to this end. the commission will provide more than eur 50 million, not only for eufor troops, but also as part of a comprehensive approach. this appropriation is intended to finance measures in the following three key areas, ranging from immediate aid to long-term development assistance. the first area concerns humanitarian aid, for which echo has already provided eur 30.5 million in 2007 in the form of emergency aid in chad to support refugees and displaced persons in various sectors. a similar amount is also earmarked for 2008 to continue these measures. the second area involves the establishment of a chadian police force to be tasked with humanitarian protection. in the context of the eu and un missions in chad, the united nations will recruit, train and equip up to 850 chadian police and gendarmerie personnel to be deployed in the refugee camps in eastern chad. the european union is supporting this un programme with eur 10 million from the stability instrument. the third area concerns reintegration and rehabilitation. in 2008, the commission will provide eur 10.1 million from the 9th european development fund for development actions to support reconstruction, conflict resolution and administrative capacity building. these are measures necessary to improve the security situation in the areas of the un/eu mission. the 10th european development fund provides for further measures, with a budget of eur 311 million for the period 2008-13. in the short term, these measures are intended to help the displaced return to their homes, and in the long term they are aimed at achieving a lasting stabilisation of the situation in chad and in the region as a whole. my predecessors have rightly pointed to the recent outbreak of fighting between anti-government rebels and president idriss déby's troops in eastern chad, which has made humanitarian aid delivery very difficult. the security situation in the areas surrounding the refugee camps is no longer guaranteed. the humanitarian situation is further exacerbated by the rapidly increasing number of refugees from the war zones. in this deeply worrying situation, the task of restoring security in the region is of the utmost urgency. to accomplish this task, a military presence is essential. eufor troops should therefore be sent to these crisis areas. but they will only succeed if the causes of conflict are removed and if at the same time a political process is initiated aimed at reducing underlying tensions and reducing poverty by promoting economic development.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today after all the debates have been concluded.
the agenda includes the debate on the six motions for resolutions on women's rights in saudi arabia.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is extremely grateful for the opportunity to speak today on the situation of women's rights in saudi arabia. the case which is the basis of your resolution gives us cause for great concern: a young woman was sentenced to 200 lashes and six months' imprisonment after being gang raped by seven men. the eu acted immediately on this matter. the eu troika made a demarche to the saudi government in riyadh, expressing the eu's dismay at the verdict of the court in el katif. the judgment is not only in clear violation of saudi arabia's international obligations, in particular the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. this verdict turns the guilt principle on its head by declaring the victim guilty. this case brings to the forefront a country where discrimination against women is unfortunately a daily occurrence. the european parliament has rightly called on the saudi government on several occasions to lift restrictions on women's freedom of movement, including the ban on women driving. this requirement also applies to restrictions on women's access to employment and to restrictions on their legal personality and representation in legal proceedings. i fully share the concern of parliament about the situation of women in saudi arabia. at the same time, saudi arabia, as a member of the united nations human rights council, is committed to the protection and promotion of human rights. saudi arabia is a party to the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. however, it has ratified the convention with one reservation; the kingdom of saudi arabia is not obliged to comply with any provisions of the convention which are contrary to islamic law in the event of a conflict between the provisions of the convention and the norms of islamic law. the european union has repeatedly called on saudi arabia to lift its reservations to this un convention, in particular with regard to the granting of equal rights for women and men with regard to the nationality of their children, and will continue to do so. human rights issues such as the situation of women are regularly the subject of european union demarches towards saudi arabia. the european union calls on the government of the democratic republic of the congo to take all necessary measures to ensure that the rights of women and girls are respected and that the rights of women and girls are protected. two recent changes we have observed could - i say this with caution - could perhaps point to some progress for saudi arabia. the national society for human rights in saudi arabia, for example, released its first report on the human rights situation in saudi arabia in may this year. the report reveals violations of the rights of women, prisoners and workers, as well as unfair court judgments. the findings and recommendations of this report should be taken up and followed up by the saudi government. in addition, in october, king abdullah announced a major judicial reform aimed at strengthening the independence of judges and facilitating the establishment of facts under sharia law under the supervision of the supreme court. for a country like saudi arabia, these are encouraging steps. we should therefore not only draw attention to human rights violations in saudi arabia whenever necessary, but we should also expressly welcome and support the reforms that have been slowly emerging recently.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today after all the debates have been concluded.
the agenda includes the debate on the five motions for resolutions on the subject of 'justice for women in leisure'.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 1993, then japanese government spokesman yohei kono expressed "japan's sincere apology and regret" to all those "who have suffered immense suffering and incurable physical and psychological injuries as comfort women". in 1995, then prime minister murayama publicly apologized to the so-called comfort women on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the end of world war ii. in the same year, the asian women's fund was also established to provide compensation and medical assistance to survivors on behalf of the government and the people of japan. these attempts to make amends to the so-called comfort women and the new public apology by former japanese prime minister koizumi on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the end of world war ii in 2005 are positive steps by japan. japan has thus accepted responsibility for these unspeakable human rights violations. the japanese foreign minister has just confirmed the statement by mr kono, the government spokesman, which i quoted at the beginning, as the official position of japan. now we have the moving testimony of survivors, and this moving testimony has sparked renewed interest in this terrible time in europe as well as in the united states, canada and australia. but what we have to do here is not just to look back at the past, but to draw the right conclusions from what has happened and to do everything we can to combat the present forms of slavery, sexual exploitation and human trafficking. the european instrument for democracy and human rights is used by the commission to actively support non-governmental organisations around the world that work to prevent violence against women and children and to combat trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation. on 23 november 2007, the international day for the elimination of violence against women, the commission made another sign by reaffirming its commitment to combating gender-based violence. the european union has a regular human rights dialogue with japan, which addresses all eu concerns, including women's rights. japan is a like-minded global actor, working constructively with us in multilateral fora to improve respect for and protection of human rights. for example, japan has submitted a joint motion with the european union on human rights in north korea, condemning the actions of the myanmar regime.
the debate is closed. the vote on these three items will take place at the end of our sitting today.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the president declared the sitting closed at 4.20 p.m.)
