mr. president, i have to ask you... it is a great pleasure for me and a long-awaited moment to have you here in the plenary to give me the floor. we, the people's deputies, have high expectations for the german presidency. europe needs new momentum and courage today. madam chancellor, i have to ask you... we expect the german presidency to take the constitutional process out of the current crisis. delay today is a serious danger. if we do not close this case by the end of 2008, if the main issue in the 2009 european parliament elections remains the unfinished business of the constitution, then we will be giving a horse to the marginal political forces. there is a danger that these forces, with their raging, destructive campaign, could enter the next european parliament with far greater forces than before, and that the crisis of today could be accompanied by a serious institutional crisis. parliamentary decision-making may be paralysed. we don't want that to happen, so we need to act fast. the new members of the reunified europe are increasingly dependent on external suppliers of energy sources at the eastern borders of the union. it's not just economic dependence, but the rebuilding of political influence through economic means is a real threat today. this is not just a matter for the new member states, but for the whole of europe. joint european action in the field of energy policy is more important than ever. the benefits of unity are clearer than the sun here. we are strong when we are united, but when we follow the policy of separate deals in energy policy, we are being outmaneuvered. the new members expect solidarity to reduce their vulnerability, but not only in their own interests, but in the interests of europe as a whole.
one parliament, one seat: quite a simple idea all over europe, except the european union, where we have three seats for the european parliament, and the members and thousands of other people actually use two seats for the same goal – one in brussels, and one in strasbourg. it costs eur 250 million per year for our taxpayers, not to mention the environmental damage caused by the hundreds of journeys and thousands of cars travelling between the two cities. during strasbourg weeks meps spend their mondays and thursdays making unnecessary trips instead of working and meeting their voters. the german government has a tough economic policy at home, and it recommends the same measures to other countries, like my homeland, hungary. i hope the german presidency will be brave enough to push forward the same economic reform in the eu, not allowing our taxpayers’ money to be thrown away. let us respect our voters, let us respect the environment, let us encourage chancellor merkel to fight for a single seat.
i wish the german presidency every success in implementing its ambitious programme, which could be another major step in reshaping the economic, social and natural face of the old continent. europe really needs to regain its economic vitality if we are to preserve growth and jobs in the long term. we have a huge task ahead of us. we need to complete the internal market, strengthen the competitiveness of european companies, modernise our regulatory system. we must overcome the constitutional crisis that threatens our faith in the future of integration. efforts should be made to improve economic growth and employment, to strengthen europe's global political and economic weight, to develop a common energy and climate policy, and to create a european area of security and stability. the common fight against terrorism and organised crime and the growing influx of refugees are indispensable. but the threat of racism and xenophobia must also be addressed to force the german presidency to act. at the same time, i welcome the emphasis on the core values on which our common europe is based. let us not forget that 2007 is the year of the european value of equal opportunities, perhaps first enshrined in the treaty. the motto of the german presidency is true here: 'europe can only succeed together'. we must all do something to advance the cause of equal opportunities, both in our own countries and together. in this context, i announced the 2007 national programme for equal opportunities together with the hungarian minister for education. i hope that many more will follow this and not only at european level but also at national level.
the liberalisation of the internal market in rail transport is fully achieved with the 3rd railway package. it is true that europe needs a sustainable, well-functioning railway. however, the success of the third railway package will depend on the provision of the service by economically sound, logistically prepared and modern railway companies. that's not the case today. the railway companies in the new and some old member states are struggling with accumulated deficits and the member states are struggling with consolidation. this is a seemingly national issue, but it is a european problem in scale and significance, and it threatens the viability of all three railway laws we are discussing today, especially if we set the bar high. the railway package includes a proposal to extend the time taken to prepare for liberalisation in national passenger transport. i'm of the opinion that the longer preparation time is not enough. i suggest that the european commission put the real situation of european railways in an enlarged union on the agenda of its work programme and face it head on. it is also necessary to examine what needs to be done and what can be done to solve this existing railway problem in a significant part of europe. so it is not a question of drawing a line between the old and the new member states. on the contrary, we must find a way to make rail transport a well-functioning, liberalised service throughout europe, competitive with or complementary to other transport modes. the aim is therefore to ensure that the existing assets in the new member states - in this case the rail service - are not victims of the opening up of the internal market but are a valuable part of it. unfortunately, some services have not been able to do this in the past. as far as the liberalization of national passenger transport is concerned, i consider my amendment to be better than the compromise one. the difference between the two is that my proposal would give any member state that is unable to prepare in time or faces other obstacles the possibility of derogating. the compromise proposal only allows this for the new member states. i believe that pre-regulatory impact assessment should in any case cover the specificities of the new member states, but the regulation should be uniform. in any event, i welcome the fact that the rapporteur and the committee on transport have tried - and this is the first time - to take account of the specific problems of the new member states in the legislation.
i would like to draw your attention to a few questions, the first of which is of a general economic nature. when we talk about liberalization and liberalization of services, we always say the same thing. it should not be that the services directive has no deadline and that we want to liberalise only partly in some areas, because, as a german, i am sensitive to that, while in other areas we need to liberalise services in their entirety, such as financial services or railways. i don't want to hurt the railroad service. yes, it will have to be completely liberalized, but it will have to be closed in other areas. the other question is specifically what i said in the first reading. the new member states face a number of public finance problems. i am therefore saying that we can only really accept full liberalisation five years after the introduction of the euro, because we cannot recapitalise our companies - which have enormous wealth and should not be depleted - in such a way that they can withstand competition. 2022 is already quite friendly in this respect, according to the current proposal. we must be very careful - especially in the new member states - not to lose sight of the fact that the public service obligation is only fulfilled by bus. so, after a car accident, the state is simply relieved of its public service obligation. the savary proposal seems to me to be moving in the right direction in this respect, indeed towards deepening the internal market. the sterckx report - i am of course very pleased with everything that is described there - but again, as a new member state, i have to say that it will cost us a lot, especially if it has to be done in the first ten years before personal liberalisation and the introduction of the euro. it's very, very difficult. so i don't want to speak against what is written there: very good goal, but things don't quite fit together in time, and i would very much like to see this level of commitment only after the introduction of the euro and personal liberalisation. and by the way, with liberalization, the quality will also improve, so there probably won't be any major problems, but again, we have to synchronize.
thank you, mr. president, and congratulations on your new assignment. safe transport is a matter of vital importance, but it is also difficult and complex because people - ourselves - take enormous risks. in my country, more than half of the citizens die in road accidents. a variety of thoughtful measures are needed to achieve the planned reduction in the number of road accidents by 2010. my colleague ewa's report systematically looks at what needs to be done, from enforcing existing rules - for example, by encouraging better driving techniques - to introducing technical innovations and improving infrastructure. the most vulnerable road users, pedestrians and cyclists, need to be better protected. we must not forget the disabled, whose safety requires special solutions. this is also relevant because 2007 is the year of equal opportunities. the union and its member states share responsibility for road safety. to strengthen the social base, we are calling on civil society organisations to sign the european road safety charter and to put their faith in improving road safety over the next three years. the union should play a coordinating role, in particular in campaigns, in the launching of research programmes and in the exchange of experience. if we can achieve these goals, then every year in a country as small as hungary, with 10 million people, we can save 500 lives, close to the number of seats in this room. dear ewa, i will miss you. i trust you will find what you want, and we will try to follow the lessons you have taught us here in parliament. let's try to be healthy, good, and decent.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. madam president, the report by president záborská on one of the most fundamental european issues, our common objective of achieving gender equality as fully as possible, inspires us here in the european parliament, in the work of our committees, in terms of responsibility and division of labour. the question and the hypothesis of the question, as the past cycles have shown and now this new one shows that even here in the walls of parliament this question is not clear to everyone, perhaps that is why it has not been resolved, although in the recent period the committee on women's rights has made great efforts to examine and change this. the integration of the principle of gender equality into the daily life of society, the communication of this principle to the people, the fight against entrenched stereotypes, the most fruitful use of women's capacities and knowledge are still very far from our goal of real equality of opportunity in europe. as the rapporteur has very strongly criticised in the european parliament. the scepticism about gender equality, which i often experience here in parliament, is often the result of the fact that most people still today misunderstand gender equality as a struggle where one group - in our case men - gives up power and privilege in favour of another group - in our case women. the european parliament is an exemplary institution and this status can only be maintained and strengthened if, in the course of our daily parliamentary work, we fully represent in our professional committees the principles and guidelines that we strive to implement at european level and that we set as standards for the member states. we want to see as many women as possible on the committee. european political parties should strive to promote women's participation in public life, to promote more women in elections, and to encourage and create fairer and more equal representation in parliament. the european parliament must set an example. in all our policies, from design to evaluation, but also in the practical aspects of our work in parliament, we must have the promotion of equal opportunities for women and men at the heart of our thinking. and i think the fight for committee seats and the year of equal opportunity is a great framework for that.
it is natural that the creation of offspring, the rearing of children, the care of the elderly and the sick, the maintenance of family unity, but also health, education or social care are unthinkable without the active participation of women? this is true in almost every aspect of life. how can we make decisions on any issue, make laws, make regulations without taking into account their specific considerations? it is important that gender equality policy is far-reaching across all policies and present at all levels. ms. zaborska's report is the first to deal with an integrated approach to equal opportunities thank you. although the committees pay more attention to gender equality in their work, to date no body has included equality requirements as a core principle of its work. is there a lack of strategic foundation: more women, but no more significant positions? our committees need to take more seriously the enforcement of the gender equality requirement and the provision of the necessary training and information. this should not lead to a confrontation between men and women, but should be a matter of ensuring that everyone understands that the validity of women's views is also in the interest of men.
i agree that climate change could have catastrophic consequences for the world and europe . if we don't radically reverse our current practices, if we don't change our current lifestyles in the next 10 years, it could cause enormous economic and ecological damage. it is therefore in the interest and the moral obligation of all member states to commit themselves to the climate policy announced by the german presidency to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020, to increase the share of renewable energy in the total energy mix to at least 20% and to reach 10% of bio-based products in fuel consumption. as regards actions, i call on the commission to align the operational programmes of the member states, which are currently being assessed, with the objectives set out above. if it finds that in a member state there are not sufficient union resources earmarked for these objectives, it shall exercise its right not to adopt the operational programme of the country concerned in this form. it is unacceptable that some member states only support in words the pan-european effort to achieve energy efficiency and savings. hungary and poland want to spend just over 1% of the eu budget on this area, while lithuania wants to spend 5.4%. it is already clear that this will not enable the hungarians and poles to meet their current eu commitments. if we think and act responsibly, we can have the third industrial revolution within the next six months. this industrial revolution is about stopping climate change, and the result is going to be a low-carbon, and then a carbon-free economy.
mr president, in my one minute of speaking time, i would like to focus on three issues based on my amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety yesterday. transport is one of the main sources of climate change; road transport uses five times more energy than train transport for the same number of passengers. the same goes for private cars on the one hand and trams and subways on the other hand. that is why public transport should be a priority for us. in a market economy, in a capitalist society, most of these fine goals could be reached by using economic and financial tools. energy efficiency can be increased only along with a very balanced green tax system. in the longer term, europe should have a harmonised ecological tax system, because without such a system, our common environmental policy does not have proper tools. our developed member states have exported their energy and natural-resource-consuming activities to less-developed countries, exporting greenhouse emissions and environmental damage as well. we must prevent such practices in the future.
in the southern counties of hungary, the police have discovered a huge amount of municipal waste, up to 5000 tons, probably of german origin. the investigation is ongoing, the german side is constructive. but the fact that there is so much garbage and who knows how much more, germany is certainly missing it. this must be reflected in the german administration. it is a serious blow to the perception of eu membership in my home country that such phenomena, which are prohibited by european law, are spreading as a consequence of the free movement of goods. german and austrian companies have already caused scandals in hungary, selling expired food at large retail chains and even selling dog food as meat products suitable for human consumption, taking advantage of the thrifty shopping habits of people in the new member states who have huge livelihood problems. this is something that not only the german and austrian authorities have to tackle, but also the european commission, which must not only encourage the new member states waiting for the euro to slim down their public administrations, but also to increase the number of staff in consumer protection.
in one of europe's oldest democracies, and a member of the european union for only a few years, the police in hungary, with the government's thinly veiled support, have for months been severely restricting citizens' right to basic assembly. we hungarians are proud to have named the hungarian parliament building and the large square in front of the parliament after our greatest national freedom fighter, lajos kossuth. this space has been a defining feature of hungary's history over the past 100 years. this area was closed three months ago by the budapest police chief, in violation of the law and the right to assembly, in order to make it impossible for citizens to demonstrate freely. the hungarian constitution, all international treaties on civil liberties, prohibit unjustified restrictions on the right of assembly as a basic civil right. in the heart of europe, kossuth square in budapest has been closed to political expression for three months. this is unacceptable. this is not a hungarian issue, it is a serious violation of the commonly held democratic european values. and mr. president, let me say at the end that i am very pleased that you, mr. president adam bielan, are giving me the floor.
the report on healthy lifestyles identifies a problem affecting around a third of europe's population. policies to prevent and control overweight, obesity and chronic diseases should cover the whole life span, from the foetal period to old age. however, the elderly and the disabled are more at risk for overweight and physical inactivity and the diseases that result. older people are sometimes at a cumulative disadvantage because of these. an example is the worldwide prevalence of diabetes, which can be treated with the risk of further complications. many elderly patients are forced to become immobile during their treatment, having to cope not only with their illness but also with other disabilities. we know that the main focus of an ageing europe must be prevention. however, we must ensure that older people have the chance to live a life of dignity, an essential part of which is the right to a healthy life. i must point out that different member states have different options for prevention. the cost of a healthy life varies from country to country. in organising prevention, the elderly and the disabled should be given priority in identifying disadvantaged groups and prevention/rehabilitation programmes should be adapted to local needs where possible. this can only be achieved by eu member states working together and sharing best practice.
within the framework of the recent spectacular increase in the number of obese and overweight people within the european union, i would like to warmly welcome the commission green paper as well as mrs ries’ report. the obesity growth rate has indeed already reached a dramatic level within the union. the issue should therefore be addressed seriously by establishing an eu action plan for the promotion of healthy lifestyles. not only have we to cope with the bad consumer habits and the lack of physical activity, but all the economic consequences have to be addressed appropriately. as a matter of fact, it has been demonstrated that many deaths and illnesses could be avoided with the use of appropriate diets and daily physical exercise. not only would lives be saved, but it would help decrease the financial burden on national budgets, as the socio-economic impact of diseases relating to the problems of being overweight is said to account for between 4 and 7% of the member states’ total health expenditure. the economic consequences of obesity have not yet been fully assessed. obesity is a genuine disease, a real challenge for the union, for the health of its citizens, and for consumer habits.
we have talked a lot about obesity being the fourth leading cause of death in the european union, directly and indirectly, in the ries report. as a chronic disease, it imposes a serious moral and financial burden on the individual, the family, and society as a whole, and unfortunately we have to see the number of those affected grow. among the groups at risk, special attention should be paid to children, as the number of obese children in the union is increasing by more than 400 000 per year. of course, there are preventive measures. but what do we mean by prevention? • educating society, and especially children, about healthy eating and proper nutrition• regular exercise• targeted advertising and advertising• consumer protectionconsumer protection is a key prevention tool that is seldom mentioned. it should be ensured that the percentage of the daily nutrient requirement consumed when consuming a food is clearly indicated on the label of the food. and in the evening, foods that are low in nutrition but high in carbohydrates - chocolate, sugary drinks, and so on - should be clearly labeled (as tobacco products are) as a risk factor for diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
the access of roma children throughout europe to equal education is extremely limited, and many do not attend school at all. those children that do go to school are systematically put into segregated schools or ‘special classes’ for the disabled, which are characterised by inferior quality of instruction and inadequate physical conditions. in some countries over 60% of roma children are in special schools or remedial learning programmes as a result of inadequate teaching and testing methods. commissioner figel’ has often accentuated the fact that education is the very best strategy for integration. i believe that the eu should not only provide a basis upon which to enhance discussion of the topic, but it should also channel it towards a european strategy on roma rights. preventing the marginalisation of the roma must be the goal, and the tool – education – is accessible already, yet it is not efficiently used. segregation is a tool of disintegration and it costs the european taxpayers a lot. especially in the light of demographic changes, the roma could be recognised as a source of economic potential if governments were to take the steps necessary to allow roma to realise their potential through education and access to the labour market.
the european society based on solidarity is based on non-discriminatory access to rights, resources, services and, in particular, to different forms of education. access to education and training for all segments of society and the elimination of gender stereotypes are essential conditions for economic growth and increased competitiveness, and are necessary to promote social inclusion and to achieve europe's demographic and competitiveness objectives. education contributes to the full potential of people, enabling them to remain adaptable and marketable in the labour market in the face of the new challenges of the knowledge-based society, to avoid the risk of marginalisation and to acquire usable knowledge to meet the constantly changing needs of the market. women have a need for this, but stubborn stereotypes make it harder for them to succeed in almost every area of life, including education. low levels of basic education, unemployment and limited life opportunities for various reasons can lead to the marginalisation of large sections of the population, especially women. thus, different forms of education, access to opportunities play a key role in the fight against social exclusion, in the integration of women into the labour market, in the fight against the risk of exclusion. the return on investment in education and training takes time, so governments need to plan for the long term when deciding on spending priorities at local and national level. it is worth it, because it serves a europe of solidarity and prosperity.
mr president, i would like to raise a matter of european policy which is of paramount importance: the fight against extremist tendencies which are unfortunately developing all over europe. the democratic parties of the right, the left, the liberals, the greens, all the parties represented here in this parliament, have unanimously said that we must distance ourselves from all forms of extremism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and the exclusion of minorities. we have succeeded in establishing a health cordon in this house against extremists. it's a very big hit. can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the vice-president of the ump in france or the vice-president of the cdu in germany would speak at a demonstration where extremists are present, where banners are waved with neo-nazi slogans, and that he would not distance himself? i think, ladies and gentlemen, that all the parties here must take a step back from the extremists of all stripes who are rampant in all the countries of europe.
the cuban dictatorship recently accused some new eu member states of conspiring against havana through the party website gramma. the attacked states, such as the czech republic and poland, have indeed spoken out in favour of cuban democracy in recent times. but their efforts can only succeed if the european union stands united behind the island's democratic forces. in the midst of its own reform, the european union must find ways to support the opposition that is increasingly making its voice heard inside and outside cuba. europe's role in the world is defined not only by its economic performance but also by its commitment to freedom in action. although there are still hundreds of people in prison today for political reasons, the socialist dictatorship branded with the name of fidel castro is, i believe, coming to an end. but for democracy to come, the international community, including the european union, must clearly stand up for freedoms.
the main objective of the new european waste management reform is to significantly reduce the amount of waste landfilled. among the elements of the reform, i would like to say a few words about selective collection. looking around the european union, we see a very mixed picture. europe, united in so many ways, has been divided by the issue of selective collection. for those at the top of the scale (see denmark, the netherlands, germany), the proportion of municipal waste collected separately is around 50%, while at the bottom of the scale it is just over 2%. a similarly large difference can be seen in the case of the separate collection of industrial waste. some countries, italy and the netherlands, have 80 to 90 percent, while others are barely around 10 percent. my country, hungary, is a good example of this duality. less than 2,5% of municipal waste is recycled, which is also one of the lowest rates among the member states of the union. industrial waste, on the other hand, is over 70%, which is a lot. why the double standard? well, in my country, the industry was made legally obliged to separate waste collection a few years ago. that's the main reason for this 70% score. in contrast, the selective collection of municipal waste was to be introduced on a voluntary basis by the creation of waste collection islands. the result speaks for itself: only 2% of all municipal waste is collected selectively. i think this example illustrates the importance of setting uniform, binding minimum targets for member states in the area of selective collection, both for industry and for citizens. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, believe me, we won't be so much in the debate about burning if we can solve the problem of selective collection.
unfortunately for hungary, today's debate on the revision of the waste framework directive has taken on an unexpected timeliness. in recent weeks, the hungarian police have opened a multi-faceted waste management procedure for a large amount of waste illegally transported from germany to hungary and dumped there. this action is of course already in conflict with legislation, but it also highlights the need for effective and comprehensive european regulation. the commission is proposing to introduce a new system of recycling guidelines for the period 2007-2013. on this basis, i would like to draw your attention to three aspects of the current debate. first, in addition to the waste hierarchy, the social costs of managing the waste at each level of the hierarchy must also be taken into account. the application of the waste hierarchy can thus contribute to the efficient use of natural resources and to the reduction of energy dependency, in addition to the environmental benefits. secondly, the principle of proximity and self-sufficiency should be emphasised, as the transport of waste, and in particular the increasing volume of transport of hazardous waste, causes significant environmental problems. thirdly, it is appropriate to give market-conform tools a place in waste management regulation. although technical specifications such as limit values are inevitable in many cases, a greater role could be given to fees that internalise the external, economic costs of waste generation. i hope that as a result of the directive, which will be drawn up taking account of the above considerations, no one will have to fear that his place of residence will suddenly become a dumping ground, as unfortunately happened in hungary the other day.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate the two reporters. i think they have done a very serious job and i agree with those who have spoken before me and i have to say with appreciation that we are now setting up the hierarchy of reporting and putting prevention first. what i asked you to talk about is basically two cases. i'd say two of my favorite things. one is that you cannot take medication and drink alcohol at the same time, which means that you have to take into account that the enlargement has brought a region that is becoming more and more diversified and more and more vulnerable. the other is that you can't say that every surgery is successful, only that the patient dies. why do i say that? as my colleague mr gyürk has already said, and as i have experienced in my own constituency, huge quantities of garbage and household waste are arriving in central and eastern europe. the reason for this is that it is obviously much cheaper in germany - even illegally, with some corrupt methods - to get rid of waste than to sort it and process it in a highly bureaucratic way at home. so the first message is to be careful with this bureaucracy and try to get the waste to be processed where it actually comes from. the second is to have a constant accounting and traceability of waste, without which no result can be achieved. criminal categories should also be established, i think we will soon establish in case the polluter pays principle does not apply. i find it unacceptable that we as victims have to prove where the waste comes from, that we have to bear the cost of its destruction. this is contrary to virtually all european philosophy and legal principles and we must address this situation to eliminate it.
in writing. in hungary, several recent scandals have drawn attention to the avoidance of waste policy. both the czech republic and hungary were flooded with illegal shipments of waste from western europe. if we are to prevent western european waste from landing in the new member states, we need a new framework directive that does not leave any loopholes and that also places a strong emphasis on waste prevention. there's not enough corporate disclosure, and there's a need for regulatory oversight. it is also important to use and recycle the waste generated in accordance with the five-point hierarchy laid down in the framework directive, thus minimising landfill waste. i also suggest that if the waste issue is regulated further, the european commission should set up a central register of waste shipments, which would also facilitate controls. it would also be useful to have uniform and mandatory marking of waste on the outside of transport vehicles. i also expect the commission to act as soon as possible.
it is essential that turkey continues to strengthen its democratic institutions and to implement reforms that will facilitate its european integration. a european parliament report at the end of last year noted the slowdown in the reform process, highlighting in particular that there was insufficient progress in ensuring women's rights. it is unacceptable that turkish women are discriminated against in almost all areas of life: in the labour market, in decision-making, in education, and are at a significant disadvantage compared to their male counterparts. even if the law gives you rights, they're useless if you don't make sure they're practiced. the political will of the turkish government is the most helpful factor in achieving this. this requires a social dialogue with the intensive involvement of ngos. awareness campaigns can really bring awareness to the issue of women's rights. the continuation of violence against women is shocking and unacceptable for a country which wants to embrace the principles of european integration. it is the task of the turkish government to find the appropriate means to solve this shameful problem and to phase it out. the european community can help with this through the experience and best practices of its programmes. i am confident that turkey is willing to accept the right hand and is actually doing something to overcome the problem. thank you for the work of my colleague, mr bozkurt. your report is excellent. i recommend it be adopted.
in writing. i warmly welcome the speeches by both president poettering and chancellor merkel. to quote robert schuman, 'the story of european integration is basically a success story'. the continuation of this success story would be jeopardized by the failure of the constitutional process. failure to create a more functional, democratic and citizen-friendly union would also seriously affect the success of the lisbon strategy of creating a more competitive europe that respects its social values. i believe that an important element of this is the creation of clearer, more uniform legislation, which can help small and medium-sized enterprises develop at european level and thus create jobs. increasing competitiveness is also essential if europe is not to be reduced to the role of an economic giant or a political dwarf in world politics. today, perhaps more than ever, it is important to represent european values, human rights, democracy, the rule of law and equal opportunities globally. this is particularly true in the year of equal opportunities, when we need to make increased efforts at both european and national level to help those who are disadvantaged. i welcome the importance of the situation of immigrants and their social integration, but we must not forget the situation of europe's largest and perhaps most marginalized minority, the roma. in this respect too, the imaginary economic and social berlin wall must be dismantled. i would like to stress the need to protect the most vulnerable, women and children who suffer from double discrimination. on the rule of law, i would like to remind you that the union is fundamentally based on the rule of law, and its functioning presupposes that all citizens respect its laws. members of the european parliament must lead the way in respecting the law, otherwise they set a bad example for all citizens of europe.
the rapporteur is the international trade committee. the international trade committee in its resolution stressed that the key to the wine reform is to increase the competitiveness of european wine on international markets and in our internal markets. this is no easy task, given the extremely complex nature of wine market regulation and the many difficulties facing the european wine industry. one very important statement of the international trade commission's recommendation is that the central element of the reform cannot be support for cuts. we need more complex regulation than that. in my view, if cutting is to be supported, it should be concentrated in the regions where the surplus is already produced. it can be seen that in regions where production is in deficit, i.e. where consumption is higher than production, or where this is in balance, the increase in imports is mainly due to the wines from third countries rather than from wines from other member states of the european union. so if you cut back on areas that were able to produce their own consumption, but will no longer be able to do so, it is not at all certain that this will lead to a reduction in the eu surpluses. it is much more likely that imports from third countries will increase. the committee on trade also believes that we need to take strong action in international fora, within the wto and in bilateral trade agreements, to ensure that origin protection is guaranteed.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs fischer boel, for her report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fischer boel, for his report. the point of contention between the commissioner and myself is that we do not want to give so much weight to the cutting-off, because all parties agree that, in addition to the cutting-off, restructuring and modernisation are at least as important. i would like to draw the commissioner's attention to the fact that there is a great danger for the new member states that poor farmers cut too much, and this further increases the problem of the new ones. that is why all the money must be put into the national envelope, and i would like to congratulate the commissioner on that, because the national envelope could be the future of not just wine but of the whole common agricultural policy: we must set the framework and put it into the national envelope on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. that's an excellent solution, but the basis on which we establish national envelopes, there's a big problem, ma'am, if it's true that 20% is based on area and 80% is based on historical references. this will be a serious discrimination against the new member states. so for the new member states, only the allocation based on the national envelope area would be acceptable, if this information is true - i hope it is not. the fifth element, distillation, you are right about: distillation should be completely abolished. finally, in the context of rural development, it should be possible to use surpluses from rural development to develop wine regions in addition to the amounts allocated to the wine sector.
in november last year, the european parliament rejected the commission's proposal for voluntary modulation of direct payments. now we're back, and we're faced with a proposal we once rejected. however, we must vote no not only because there has been no substantive change, but also because the proposal raises serious concerns on several points. firstly, because it leads to the abandonment of the community's agricultural policy by reducing it to the national level. moreover, the degree to which this possibility would be used by different member states would vary according to their different budgetary situations, leading to a serious distortion of competition. we cannot allow farmers who are already struggling to make ends meet to be disadvantaged by the tighter budgets of individual member states. of course, we all recognise the need to align the regulation with the 2005 council agreement, but we must examine all options carefully in order to be able to change the regulation consistently and appropriately. the proposal is therefore unacceptable in its present form. we need to find solutions that make farmers' lives better, not worse.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. technological innovation is tangible, it opens up new opportunities for europe. the switchover to digital technology will create a surplus in the previously scarce frequency range. it is therefore appropriate and necessary to allow some of the surplus to be used by other new technologies, thus also opening up a dynamic space for the european information and communication industry. the necessary regulation should be designed to ensure that traditional, unlicensed and spectrum trading is part of an efficient spectrum management. clear rules are needed on what and how much we allow in the area of spectrum trading. the epp is of the opinion that spectrum trading itself, and the conditions governing it, should be clarified soon. we have to be extra careful with the broadcast frequencies here. care must be taken to avoid the accumulation of spectrum and the creation of monopolies. we need to promote the spread of new technologies in less developed regions, in rural areas, but in a way that does not make them pay the price. the epp firmly believes that regulation must take account of social, cultural and political considerations in order to promote the expression of cultural and linguistic diversity. in preparing the report, i have repeatedly raised some of the special features of the new member states, which will have to be taken into account in the legislative process. that is why i was pleased to hear catherine trautmann's motion on this and i support it. finally, member states should open up the frequency for pan-european technical harmonisation and this should be done by consensus.
hungary and the hungarian government can be proud of the fact that they were not involved in the illegal european operations of the cia. the so-called old and new member states are both among the contributors, while the majority of the new member states have been left out of the shameful actions. this shows that, on a political level, this distinction is becoming less and less meaningful. the fight against terrorism is our common cause and responsibility. but we are fighting terrorism precisely to protect our democratic society, our laws and our rule of law. if we give up these, we're on a dangerous moral slope. the united states is an important ally, but just as we must fully respect the laws of the united states on its soil, we must expect the same from american authorities in europe. i welcome the commission's report and am particularly pleased that it has the support of amnesty international. i was one of the founders of amnesty international in hungary during the last days of communism, and i have followed their work closely ever since. i'm glad to agree with them on this one.
in writing. the cia commission's activities are primarily for moral benefit. it has been proved that there are moral requirements that cannot be ignored. in the fight against terrorism, illegal means must not be used, because they have the opposite effect of what is hoped for and will always be exposed. the work of the committee may also affect the future of the guantanamo detention camp. the council of europe has previously reported on cia flights. the ep document contains a number of specific cases, but the ep did not even attempt to draw up a specific leporello from the - often heartbreaking - specific cases examined at the hearings. the aim of the committee was to draw lessons from the more general european operation of universally recognised rights and principles and to focus on the way forward. member states should review their anti-terrorism and aviation legislation from a human rights perspective. although the ep has no formal influence on the decisions of the member states, i hope that the outcome of the final vote in parliament will have an impact on the member states, the institutions and, in the longer term, perhaps even on american attitudes. we must recognize the importance of the fight against terrorism and the successes of the united states in this field. however, counter-terrorism action cannot be an exemption from respect for human rights.
in writing. – within the framework of the recent socio-economic developments in the union and even if unemployment figures seem to decrease, genuine and thorough attention should still be given to social cohesion in the union as a whole. as a matter of fact, despite the increase in employment data, poverty is still growing in the eurozone and part of the jobs that are created are unfortunately of a precarious nature. quality and secure employment should go along with economic growth through the achievement of the lisbon strategy objectives. with the increasing disparities between the growth rates of the member states and the relatively low growth rates of certain large member states, significant efforts are needed in order to enable the union to face the new challenges of an ageing population and growing competition as a result of globalisation. the bullmann report, by focusing on the role of smes, research and development, the environment and the energy sector, aims clearly at creating greater coherence in the policy-making processes and the economic governance of the union while attempting to develop a genuinely effective and inclusive european labour market. i therefore support the line adopted by the rapporteur.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. we know that after the 2004 enlargement, the roma in europe western europe tried. we also know that the actual figures were not very high, but at least they drew attention to the terrible and hopeless situation of the roma. we knew that the roma were unwelcome guests in europe. europe was already at a loss as to how to deal with their migration, and most often they were forced to return to their countries - in much worse conditions than they left, because they had sold everything they had - as countries responded to this challenge by tightening asylum procedures. we also know that because of the exaggerated, hysterical, untrue claims in the media, this has caused fundamental fear in western european countries. it has encouraged many countries to try to block even the enlargement process. we also now know that this unusual tendency for european roma to migrate is caused by the discrimination faced by roma in their home countries, such as school segregation, high unemployment, and prejudice, and limited access to health care. we also know that roma want to live in their homelands, they want to thrive there. despite the huge amounts of phare money, ghettoisation, segregation, exclusion, anti-gypsyism is increasing in western europe after enlargement. the european union has a great responsibility and interest in promoting the integration of roma. the european commission should be responsible for providing the financial framework, but also for encouraging and monitoring. all means of influencing the member states must be seized and a european strategy must be developed. we expect a green paper, we expect an end to segregation, we expect jobs, we expect equal opportunities, we expect countries to be punished for not complying with the directives on equal opportunities. and this is precisely why europe and the mother countries should benefit from the prosperity of the roma, especially in the light of the expected demographic indicators for europe, when we are talking about an ageing europe. the roma are basically in these countries to find their happiness and they don't want to leave these countries.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i want to make it clear that the background of my speech is not to question the right of european people, for example the roma, to move freely, or to ask for or to ask for any extra rights for these people, this minority group. my original aim was to explore how the european union could document -- as my colleague moraes has also mentioned -- forced migrants, the number of people who are forced to leave their home countries because they are subject to constant discrimination. the commissioner mentioned that it was not enough to tackle discrimination in one country, but that integration had to be ensured in the eu member state concerned. i think we are not yet at this stage, we are not even at the stage where we can monitor discrimination in each member state or take appropriate action against it. in april 2005, the parliament adopted a resolution which states in its first sentence that discrimination against roma exists within the member states of the european union. we do not know how many leave their homeland because of ongoing discrimination, hoping that perhaps in a western european country their lives will be less harassed. next week will be the second time that the hungarian court will hear the lawsuit of children who were unjustly placed in special schools. despite being able-bodied, they are forced to study in institutions reserved for the disabled. i took on 12 of these children personally because the hungarian special schools are full of roma children in general, but they make up at least 70% of the population in hungary, and unfortunately there are not many member states where these figures show a marked difference. a few months ago, hundreds of hungarian roma applied for asylum in sweden, which was, of course, rejected. i don't know how many families have children in similar situations who are discriminated against. one thing is certain, if something like this happened to my children, i would seek refuge in another country. the fight against discrimination and the protection of human rights in the territory of our member states are our common responsibility. we have the power to act against this, and we must. we have spent 750 million euros in the eu since 2000 on roma integration, yet the unemployment rate has increased, the number of children who are declared disabled has increased. it is time for the european commission to take its work seriously and to develop a strategy which - as my colleague mrs járóka has said - will help us to put discrimination in the background and to take account of countries which are lagging behind in the area of legislation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, mr president, as a new member of the committee on budgets, as this is my first speech in this capacity. first of all, i would like to commend the work of the european housing bank. during 2005, it made more than 50% of its loans available to smes, which employ two-thirds of europe's workforce. i hope that the jeremy programme, which has recently entered the operational phase, will achieve its objective of making it easier for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to borrow. the jaspers programme will also be of great help to applicants from the member states in preparing for major projects. of the three jaspers regions covering the 12 new member states, only the warsaw hub has been opened so far. while hoping that the other two regions will soon be activated, i still cannot understand why the headquarters of the second region in vienna, which is not part of the programme, would have been given this task instead of being able to perform the tasks, which would have been performed by budapest, prague or bratislava, which are involved in the region's activities. europe is not doing badly in aligning industrial and environmental objectives, but there is still work to be done. in itself, it would be gratifying to see 30-35% of bank loans go to projects to improve the natural and built environment, but 60% of these loans went to urban projects, while only 20% went to energy efficiency improvements. the bank group's contribution is essential to closing the energy gaps between member states. i will take my country, hungary, as an example: according to eurostat's survey, the hungarian state spends the least on energy saving and energy efficiency measures among the countries of central and eastern europe. by 2013, it will be only huf 10 billion, compared to the annual gas subsidy of huf 100 billion. so there's still work to be done to make this better. and to the reporter, congratulations.
in the context of my colleague mr santos' report, i would like to draw your attention to a key issue in european energy policy. the report also contains a noble objective which is often mentioned in the current debate on european energy policy: the european union must achieve a complete internal energy market within a few years. however, this would be possible only if the markets of the individual member states were also free from distortions and subject to healthy competition. however, the european commission's recent sectoral review unfortunately shows that the european energy market is today too concentrated, with national markets. the old monopolies are still dominant players, often dictating or at least strongly influencing prices. in hungary, in the 1990s, incumbent mvm rt. and the then privatised electricity producers entered into long-term ppas. these agreements expire between 2010 and 2020 and cover around 80% of the hungarian electricity generation market, seriously hampering the liberalisation of the market and keeping consumer prices unduly high. the price that mvm pays for the contracted energy for most power plants appears to be significantly higher than the wholesale price mvm would pay if the power plants were to compete. the legislative provision requiring the renegotiation of agreements has so far not led to any results and the inadequate functioning of the energy market continues to cause serious disadvantages for consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal energy market is fully operational. competitive markets reduce costs for citizens and businesses, encourage energy efficiency and investment, and contribute to security of supply. market barriers should therefore be removed by each member state without delay.
author. – mr president, the dialogue between the government of china and the representatives of the dalai lama is to be warmly welcomed and should continue to receive our approval and support. only through forward-looking dialogue will pragmatic solutions be found that will meet the aspirations of the tibetan people and fully respect china’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. let us always keep in mind that the ‘one china’ policy is a long-standing eu position. our support is undeniable, but we should also ensure that this support becomes practical. such practical support should be offered in the context of the new partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and china. personally, i do not support the idea of a special representative for tibet because we already have enough means in our hands to facilitate such a dialogue. china has an enormously positive role to play in world affairs. just one example: china made a vital contribution to the success of the six-party talks on north korea just yesterday. we can use this as an example and as a lesson. if china can make a positive contribution through structured dialogue to regional peace and stability, then we can also engage china in a dialogue which will help to create a climate of confidence that will allow for a pragmatic solution to the tibet issue.
in 1848, democratic civil revolutions swept across europe, creating the values on which modern european society is built. the peoples of europe fought for civil liberties, free elections, independent national parliaments and constitutions that guaranteed them. budapest this week on march 15th remembers this revolution. this is our greatest national holiday, and we want to celebrate it with dignity. the tragic events of last autumn's anti-government demonstrations in budapest and the commemoration of the 1956 revolution, as well as the brutal police measures against citizens participating in a peaceful demonstration, have led me to call on the hungarian government to allow a dignified, peaceful and fearless celebration and to break the cordon that has been illegally erected around the hungarian parliament for four months. i also call on the minister of police to respect the fundamental rights of hungarian citizens, as requested by commissioner frattini, to refrain from intimidating peaceful celebrants, from using life-threatening rubber bullets and other weapons that cause permanent injuries, from any violent action.
it was with great pleasure, and i would say satisfaction, that i attended the opening of the fundamental rights agency on 1 march, with my colleague, mr gál kinga, on behalf of the parliament. although the political elite has been divided on this issue all along, it has finally been possible to create an institution within the european union that is dedicated to human rights, thanks in no small part to the commitment of vice-president franco frattini, the presidencies that are ready to compromise and, last but not least, our parliament. for those who were skeptical, it is time to accept the fact that the fundamental rights agency has been created and to support it in the future. as you will note, even if not legally, it is a political decision of the council that has allowed the investigations to cover the third pillar, namely police cooperation. mr. schmitt, this is the house. not here in this room to make vague accusations against budapest, but to ask the agency that has been in existence since march 1st, to ask them to investigate. i'm not going to let you do this. they know how to do it.
what my colleague, magda kosané kovács, said on the european agency for fundamental rights, which was set up on 1 march, is completely valid. i would therefore like to draw the attention of my colleagues and of the president of the commission to the fact that the work on the european agency for fundamental rights did not begin with the opening ceremony, but is only now really being carried out, and that the work programme and the elected governing body are being put in place to ensure that the agency really meets the expectations that europe, the european parliament, myself as rapporteur and my colleagues have placed on it. the role of this agency will be to take account of all the fundamental legal problems that exist in the old member states, and especially in the new ones, and to help these member states to put the union's fundamental principles, the rule of law, into practice in their daily lives.
oil has been pouring into our rivers from austria since last week, following contamination by salt and naphthalene sulfonate. for six years now, austria has been polluting hungary's only wild river, the rabah. last year, when austria was president, i interviewed the austrian minister, josef pröll, here in parliament, who promised to end pollution by the end of last summer. not that they didn't do anything, but now they're pouring oil into the river! mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. that's enough! the hungarian delegation of the european people's party decided to take united action against further austrian pollution and against the planned incinerator on the border, the austrian-hungarian border. we will hold a demonstration and demonstration in front of the competent austrian provincial ministries because we will no longer tolerate austria to pollute the common european border river in defiance of eu legislation and its own verbal and written promises.
on behalf of the pse group. a transnational company employs disabled people to clean in a city with social problems in its network in a new member state. after the disabled employees, it took the support of the local government, thus exhausting almost the entire resource that could be used for this purpose. i believe that this kind of behavior is not in line with the way we think about corporate social responsibility. in all cases, recovery efforts can and should be aligned with social objectives. this is what richard howitt's excellent report calls to mind. i would add that the favourable economic environment has attracted a number of transnational corporations to east-central europe since the early 1990s. however, some regions in the new member states of the union remain socially disadvantaged. to use a peculiar term, the inner peripheries of the union. it should therefore be made clear to transnational corporations that their actions must be in line with the principle 'think globally - act locally'. this will avoid some regions of the union becoming mere peripheries of 'think globally'. that is why i am interested in richard howitt's report and why i hope that it will not be reduced to a formal debate but will build on the role of csr in the european social model. corporate social responsibility is not simply the avoidance of harm, but a planned system of positive actions. the question is not whether actions are required, but whether they are expected to make a better world. i'm sure they're expected. it is expected that the worker is considered as a human being in his or her totality, with his or her rights, health, social and cultural traditions. richard howitt's report is a very important step on this path.
ladies and gentlemen, fellow members of the house of representatives, first of all, i would like to welcome the report by my colleague mr howitt. the debate on corporate social responsibility is a very sensitive issue that divides people, as we want to ensure a strong european social environment, while also improving the competitiveness of european enterprises. the current practice of corporate social responsibility (csr) is a good example of how strengthening the social and environmental dimension does not necessarily lead to a decline in the competitiveness of companies. the european social model must be strengthened, but we must avoid the introduction of a mandatory model based on a single model. a more regulated, voluntary model offers greater opportunities for both producers and consumers instead of new, cumbersome administrative burdens. strengthening voluntary csr by setting minimum requirements that avoid excessive cost increases for smaller companies can improve the competitiveness of consumers, provided they are adequately informed about csr-type production and business practices. we need to increase consumer awareness and information, because that creates a market for responsible production.
i know that many people are reluctant to address gender equality through affirmative action. but if there's no other way, then we'll have to look into that. allow me, as a member of the international olympic committee, to draw your attention to the fact that women now make up 40 percent of the participants in the olympic program, but their participation in the leadership of the olympic movement has been negligible. to address this situation, the nob developed a strict quota system in the late 1990s, saying that a 20% ratio for women in decision-making processes had to be achieved within 10 years. it's not a big number, but i'm happy to report that this effort has already yielded some good results. as regards the report in particular, let me speak about the issue of gender equality in school physical education and sport. school pupils in european countries form demographically very diverse, multicultural communities, including different ethnic and religious minorities. for muslim girls, it's difficult to solve their participation in physical education. on the one hand, there is the fight for gender equality, the equal right of girls and women to physical education, and on the other, respect for cultural diversity, that is, the right of ethnic groups to maintain practices of gender segregation. however, i believe it is very important for muslim girls to participate in physical education in school, even if there are important aspects that hinder it, such as special dress codes; commonly used coeducational schools; limited physical activity during ramadan; ensuring common dress and hygiene conditions; swimming lessons, dance lessons and other extracurricular activities and cultural expectations. i suggest that you do a case study, both theoretical and practical, and that you take the good practice, even if the case is sensitive because it raises human rights, religious and cultural issues.
rapporteur. – madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues in the committee on legal affairs for the overwhelming support they have given me. the unanimous support of the committee on legal affairs was a great honour and privilege for me. let me start by underlining the importance of the copyright sector, which represents 5-7 % of the eu’s gdp. it is therefore important to ensure that copyright and neighbouring rights in this increasingly growing digital domain are managed properly to the benefit of all involved. for this reason, i have to say that i am not at all happy with the ‘soft law’ approach taken by the commission, since it failed to involve the european parliament and the member states in regulating this area, which is of growing economic importance and therefore absolutely relevant to the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission has set a precedent in a very important and sensitive domain: by failing to consult parliament or the council, it has bypassed the democratic process. i believe we all agree that the legislative triangle cannot be ignored. i am fully committed to the preservation of european cultural diversity. i believe that this issue should be placed in the front line of the debate. any potential negative effects on cultural diversity in europe must be avoided. the committee on culture and education has done an excellent job in highlighting the undesirable implications – one could even say negative effects – for cultural diversity of the commission’s recommendation. as you may have noticed, the culture committee’s major concerns and demands, as well as compromise suggestions from all parties, are reflected in my report before you. summarising my report, i would like to say that my proposal preserves the reciprocal system of collecting societies in europe, but makes sure that they all respect the principle of good governance. we will encourage and support the introduction of competition among collecting societies in a controlled manner and not the ‘big bang’ approach. we would like to guarantee that individual rights holders can continue to join the collecting society of their choice. we will promote the availability of the world repertoire for all collecting societies – large and small. we will argue for solidarity and equal treatment between authors and publishers affiliated to collecting societies. we will ensure that a few large rights holders cannot place the repertoire they control exclusively in the hands of a few large collecting societies, thereby creating an oligopoly situation in europe. we would like to ensure that users of music from online and mobile services can obtain a one-stop shop when seeking a licence for the whole of europe, but prevent them from forcing down the level of remuneration for authors. we would like to ensure that collecting societies can continue to play an indispensable role in promoting new and minority repertoire locally. finally, i would like to emphasise again that, by calling for a directive that reflects these objectives, we will demonstrate our overall support for strong cultural diversity in europe. during the improvement of the report, i tried to cooperate as closely as possible with all the interested parties – above all, the excellent shadow rapporteurs – to find the best and most balanced solution on this culturally and economically important area. i am very grateful for their precious advice and suggestions. my objective has been to find a good balance of interests, a balance between the necessary introduction of competition and cultural diversity, a balance between rights holders and users of music, a balance between big and small collecting societies, a balance between the big rights holders and niche authors and composers. i have tried to propose a european solution in a very difficult and sensitive domain and i hope that it has been successful for the european union and that we all shall benefit from it.
the european union's foreign policy ambitions are impressive. unfortunately, the available funds do not match these ambitions. even worse, the distribution of scarce resources does not follow and reflect our priorities. we expect the 2008 budget to support the enlargement process more effectively than before, and to prepare candidate and potential candidate countries effectively. the accession negotiations already started must be continued on its own merits. we welcome the fact that the settlement in kosovo is a priority in the document. the time has come to take decisive steps to create a balance between the eastern and southern dimensions of the neighbourhood policy. in this respect, it is positive that the strategy includes a number of new initiatives also for the countries of the south, the east and the caucasus. this is progress, and we'll admit it. it is desirable that the promotion of democracy and human rights should be the guiding principle of the european union's aid policy, consistently applied not only in words but also in practice. unfortunately, that hasn't happened yet. the document talks a lot about the importance of energy policy, and we agree with that. the document does not contain the substantive and institutional conditions for the external energy policy component. we have to address this, because it's one of the biggest challenges of the new era. we have little money, and we need to spend it efficiently, visibly, and focused on priorities.
let's not sugarcoat it, the 2005 mpt review conference was a failure. unfortunately, the entire history of the mpt is not one of success. north korea has pulled out of the system, launched its own military nuclear program. iran has also turned against the regime, we don't know where he is, but his intentions are by no means favorable. india, pakistan, israel, they're not showing any willingness to join. however, there are some positive developments, as on february 16th, in beijing, the six-party talks reached an agreement. how much this deal is worth, we'll soon find out. director baradei is visiting north korea tomorrow, and his visit will prove that the north koreans' intentions are genuine. the stakes are very high. the entire prestige of the d.o.d. is at stake. flexibility must be coupled with consistency. we can be flexible in our methods, we can be flexible in our timing, but we can't be flexible in our goals. the objectives should be clear and unambiguous. north korea must return to the mpt system and immediately abandon its military nuclear program. the handling of the north korean problem has a direct impact on iran. if we succeed with north korea, we will succeed with iran. if we don't succeed here, he's afraid we won't be able to keep iran on the right track. the preparations for the review conference will only be genuine and successful if we can face these two great challenges, north korea and iran, and succeed in solving these two issues. we have a chance to do that now, but only if we are consistent and if we stand by our principles.
mr president, five years ago the eu set targets for childcare. member states should strive to provide childcare for at least 90% of children aged between three and the mandatory school age, and for 33% of children under the age of three, by 2010. on the fifth anniversary of the barcelona targets, we are here to evaluate the progress made in this area. sadly, these targets have not yet been reached. only five countries meet the 33% target: belgium, denmark, france, the netherlands and sweden. we must look at how the other member states are performing. i wonder if the commission has been monitoring the situation regarding these targets. is the commission preparing an analysis? are there common standards in order to monitor childcare? what are the consequences for those member states not implementing the targets? why should europe invest in childcare? it is not by chance that a childcare campaign was launched by the party of european socialists, who pleaded for accessible, affordable and good quality childcare. we did so because we strongly believe that investing in childcare means investing in our future; putting our children first gives them a good start in life and ensures equal opportunities when later entering the labour market. it allows the eu to deal with demographic challenges in order to make the eu market a more competitive one, as well as making europe more social. it allows greater participation by women in the labour market and makes it possible for men and women to reconcile family and working life, as the commissioner mentioned in his speech. clearly, by investing in childcare, we can make equal opportunities a reality and maximise life’s opportunities for all children. this can contribute to the elimination of poverty, irrespective of the socioeconomic background. therefore, i ask member states and the commission to work together and to commit to achieving these targets. hungary is a good example: the minister for social and legal affairs recognised the importance of childcare and is committed to increasing childcare, particularly among children aged 0-3 years, from 8% to 33% in five years.
my fellow officers. first of all, i would like to welcome the commission's proposal and the report drawn up by mrs bourzai. supporting the commission proposal as amended by the agri report will put an end to the exploitation of competitive advantages resulting from regulatory deficiencies and the further spread of confusing market information on beef. unfortunately, the different rules applied in the member states give rise to abuses, and therefore in many cases it has been requested that the trade name 'crude' be clarified and harmonised between the member states. as the production and marketing of meat from bovine animals aged 12 months or less varies from one member state to another, the final products produced may also differ significantly. as a result, they are marketed under different names and commercial goods may differ significantly. i consider important the draft council regulation on the agenda which would regulate the provision of more accurate information to the market and consumers than is currently the case. this will help to avoid market distortions in sales and provide an opportunity to address the problems that have arisen through national measures. by making commercial terms uniform and identifiable in all member states, we can contribute to market transparency. it is also a way of enabling consumers to be properly informed about meat from any member state. in future, attention will also have to be paid to ensuring that final consumers are informed of the content of the trade names to be introduced, especially if this differs from the names which are customary and used in any member state. consumers and producers will be the main beneficiaries of such harmonisation processes, as a transparent labelling system will ensure a higher level of consumer protection and more reliable controls. i would therefore like to welcome once again the consistent efforts of the commission to establish appropriate regulations in cases like this, and i would like to congratulate mrs bourzai in particular on her report.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would like to congratulate the commission on its timely proposal and to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, for the thorough and uncompromising work he has done to make this report a success. the group of the european people's party agrees with the approach that in order to act more effectively in the present era, the scope of the european aviation safety agency's activities should be extended, but not unlimited, and in particular in the areas of pilot licences, air operations and relations with third countries. we also accept that this will require more staff and more budget, all of this with constant control, as was also expressed in the opinion of the committee on budgets. i would like to clarify a few points of principle. firstly, i think it is important that we do not resort in any way to the compromise on qualifications and licences that we have already worked out in other forms under the so-called eu-ops. secondly, i believe it is essential to maintain the distinction between commercial and non-commercial activities, since the parameters and characteristics of the activity are different from those of safety, and we should not try to isolate private activities by bureaucratic means only. the principle of subsidiarity applies equally to medical examinations and leisure activities. there's no need to complicate this. we support the establishment of an executive committee for increasingly complex tasks and, in the case of the management board, a greater community role. the council should nominate the member states' candidate, parliament should be consulted and the commission should have 25% of the votes, which could be a realistic compromise. i consider it important that the type-approval tasks of easa do not undermine the competitiveness of smaller companies due to the cost and time factor compared to the previous national approval period. we are opposed to easa taking on its own fines, which should remain the prerogative of the member states. it is essential that easa's management is transparent and that no external stakeholder can influence its decisions through donations. we also oppose any new burden on passengers, as this is a non-subsidised, market-based sector, and the industry therefore pays fees and charges.
in writing. the extension of the european aviation safety agency's remit will make travel safer for all of us in the future. i can only support the report because in the five years since the creation of the agency it has become clear which areas need to be changed, perhaps to refine the provisions or, on the contrary, to increase the agency's powers. these questions were sought and answered by the rapporteur. the fact that the agency will in future have competence in the fields of pilot licences, air operations, third country aircraft, joint surveillance, etc., will only increase safety in transport, since the central procedure can be much more effective in such activities than if different provisions were in force in each member state. it is equally important that the agency is prepared to face the challenges of the future in order to ensure aviation safety in the long term. this also requires addressing the challenges of adequate funding. i believe that the report makes a significant step forward in this respect. for all these reasons, i congratulate the rapporteur and propose that the report be adopted as a win-win for all european citizens.
in writing. a perspective must be presented to the citizens of europe. the berlin declaration must carry a great deal of political weight. it is no longer enough to talk about the past 50 years of success, we must look ahead, we must be able to present a perspective to the citizens of europe. the integration of the european union must continue. hungary is interested in a more integrated europe that is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century and is able to ensure lasting peace, development and security on the continent. europe faces increasingly difficult internal and external challenges that threaten its own future and that of our children. poverty, demographic challenges, global climate change, international terrorism, organized crime, energy issues, these are all threats that require appropriate and complex responses and solutions. we can only achieve this if we europeans are stronger, more united. finally, it is important that the declaration reflects the commitment of the member states to a common future, strengthens the internal cohesion of the union and, above all, takes into account the safety and well-being of citizens.
in writing. in recent months, more and more people in hungary have become concerned about global climate change. many still do not understand the nature of the phenomenon, and others deny that it is caused by human activity. yet, more and more people are recognizing that our present civilization, transportation, and consumption habits are unhealthy. our development is unsustainable because we lack the natural resources to meet our current needs, and our emissions and waste are inevitably polluting our environment. the german presidency has rightly recognised the need to act to slow down the pace of climate change. increasing the share of renewable energy in the european energy mix is appropriate. but it would be a grave mistake to forget that global climate change is not the only environmental threat. air pollution, the presence of carcinogens in our daily lives, the excessive use of pesticides, the extinction of certain animal and plant species, the accumulation of waste also threaten our future, sustainable development. if we want a more humane future for ourselves and our descendants, we must act in all areas for a greener, healthier, more sustainable future.
in writing. we, the members of the socialist delegation, were pleased to note that the march meeting of heads of state or government had recognised the first successes of the renewed lisbon strategy. the main results are economic growth and, at the same time, a reduction in unemployment. we are particularly pleased that this positive process was given a major boost by the coming together of nine member states, including hungary, to sign the declaration calling for the further development of social europe and for its role to be emphasised. reforms are essential to reap the benefits of globalisation, to innovate, to restructure the economy and to further develop eu policies. our common objective is to strengthen the well-being and confidence of european citizens. the way to do this is through increasing employment, improving the quality of work and protecting social rights. these unique european traditions, however, are not about preserving existing legal institutions but about preserving european principles. in the field of employment, it is important to combine flexibility and security. to do this, the rules on this need to be reformed to ensure that workers have the knowledge they need for the future, alongside adequate income. at the same time, we must break down barriers that unduly hinder businesses from adapting to the demands of globalisation. in the practical implementation of the flexicurity principle, care should be taken to ensure that it provides worker benefits and guarantees that can be effectively used. we socialists must pay particular attention to this in the reform of labour law, at all stages.
in writing. in the light of last weekend's eu spring summit, as a hungarian representative i am saddened to note that the hungarian government, which prefers to call itself progressive in its propaganda campaigns, has once again shown its provincial and narrow-mindedness. this attitude, however, is holding back not only hungary but the entire union. the hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány's statements in brussels showed that he had also contributed to the definition of inflated climate and energy policy goals by voting for the hungarian government. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the renewable energy sector, but it is already in the process of being adopted. but this way, the high-performing countries can take over the performance of the weak or lazy countries. unfortunately, that's why the hungarian government was also involved. i believe that only international cooperation can effectively slow down the effects of global climate change. but this alliance is proving to be very difficult. europe, however, as a political factor, could be at the forefront of this process. but how can the european union set an example for the world when a few small countries here can make a dent in the internal european cohesion? no european government can be happy if action is replaced by almost nothing. this is not buying time, it's wasting opportunity. the opportunity for a modern and competitive europe. thank you, thank you.
ten years have passed since dayton, but bosnia and herzegovina is still unstable. it's not in a state of near-explosion, but don't be fooled by its apparent calm. the stalemate around police reform, the slowdown in reforms, the stalemate in decision-making, the daily verbal aggression between bosnian serbs and bosnians are warning signs. it is important that the mandate of the chief representative of the international community was extended until 2008, it would have been very early to terminate. i agree with the principle that the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina should decide their own destiny. there are situations where the international community must intervene. i hope that the reduction of the altea mission was not premature, because in the current tense situation, the mission continues to play an important role. this year's tournament in kosovo is another test, a challenge. the european union should continue to pay close attention to bosnia and herzegovina.
free trade works well when its rules are followed. however, this is not always the case. the eu, the eu producers are increasingly being subjected to unfair trade practices, dumping. in several dumping cases, it was found that traders, rather than consumers, were profiting. there is no reason for the eu to water down its current trade rules. it is unacceptable to punish companies that stay in europe, that keep jobs in europe, and reward those that export their products. protection against unfair competition is needed. the rules against unfair trading should not be relaxed, but applied. this is particularly true in countries that are not market economies, such as countries where the state provides subsidies to companies producing for export in a complex and difficult to understand way. and china is spending its growing trade surplus not on building democracy, not on reducing poverty, not on protecting the environment, not on reducing co2 emissions, but on armaments. china is increasing its military spending by 18% this year. that's up to $45 billion, according to official figures. in fact, some security experts estimate that their real military spending is three times that. officer, please. there's not much point in supporting china's arms race by cutting jobs in europe.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. respect for our fundamental rights, our human rights, and their enforcement, under all circumstances, are the cornerstones of any european state based on the rule of law and democracy. inevitable and irreversible. the need to reaffirm these already evident rights is most evident when problematic, conflicting situations arise and it becomes clear that their observance is not automatic, that we must fight again and again for the enforcement of our fundamental rights. the european union has made it its starting point and its achievement to respect and protect our human rights and fundamental rights, but the declarations have so far been accompanied by few concrete legal and practical steps. one of the concrete ones is the birth of the charter of fundamental rights itself, and although the charter is far from complete, yet giving it legal force - or, say, our accession to the european convention on human rights - would be a much-needed step forward in the protection of our fundamental rights at community level. the human rights problems that arise every day and the complexity of them prove that there is work to be done and there is much to be done in this area. i can therefore only welcome the report by mr voggenhuber and the commission's initiative, since it draws everyone's attention to the key issue that effective respect for fundamental rights by the eu institutions begins when respect for the charter of fundamental rights is reflected in the commission's legislative proposals, when regular and rigorous monitoring of the application of these principles is developed, and when the fundamental rights agency can work effectively. and while there are some paragraphs that are subject to legal debate, as a shadow rapporteur, i support the report as much as the people's party does in tomorrow's vote.
in writing. – first of all, i would like to warmly welcome the content of the own-initiative report of our colleague pierre schapira on the importance of the role of local authorities in achieving the goals of development cooperation. due to the wide range of objectives set within the framework of the millennium development goals and given the delays in the implementation of these goals, this report is of high importance in order to foster the involvement of local authorities as essential partners in all phases of the cooperation process, with a view to achieving these goals. in line with the subsidiarity principle, local actors are the best partners in order to ensure that the development aid is appropriately geared to the real need of the local communities. their role has been up to now far too limited despite the long political recognition of the added value they can bring to development policies. in this respect, i also warmly welcome the proposal to set up an international monitoring centre for local democracy and decentralisation to monitor the progress of the involvement of local authorities in both the implementation of projects and in the elaboration of development policies.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to thank the european commission for its swift action on behalf of the european socialists, as we are facing a very serious and worrying situation. as my colleague tunne kelam has indicated, the 2005 decision has had its effect, temporarily improving the situation in the republic of mari. now, after two years, another brutal attack has been carried out against a peaceful activist, galina kozlova, and this rightly draws the attention of the european commission and the european parliament. we know that the perpetrators of the 2005 attack on mr. kozlov have not been found since, and that is the reason for this decision. as president of the intergroup on minorities in the european parliament and of the finnugor forum, which is a cross-party initiative, we managed to invite mr kozlov to strasbourg in september 2006. i have seen for myself that he is not a radical, unruly personality but a man of extreme restraint. today's resolution is intended to raise awareness, to show that the european commission and the european parliament are paying attention to what is happening there. we call on the central russian authorities to put pressure on the local authorities of the republic of mari, because this investigation is not reassuring. they're investigating this as a minor assault, whereas galina kozlova suffered a skull fracture, which is a serious assault! that is why today's decision is important and why it is important to raise this situation at the next eu-russia summit, together with the situation of other finno-ugric peoples, and also within the framework of the eu-russia dialogue. thank you to mrs neelie kroes and the commission for their cooperation.
on behalf of the alde group. on 25 january this year, galina kozlova was severely beaten by an unknown assailant in joskar-ola. ms kozlova suffered injuries to her skull, brain and eyes. he was in the hospital for weeks, and he's recovering at home today. the perpetrators or the perpetrator have not been found since. this is not surprising, given that between 2001 and 2005, there were regular serious incidents against activists fighting for the rights of the mari minority, and not a single perpetrator has been brought to justice since then. this raises concerns that these serious cases are being instigated or at least tacitly supported by local authorities. our 2005 parliamentary resolution had a tangible result, as my colleague mr tabajdi pointed out, as there had been no such incident for a year and a half. it is true that the situation of the mari minority has not improved substantially, but there is very little progress, and i am therefore glad that the commission is now addressing these issues and putting them on the agenda. but i would ask the commission and parliament to pay much more attention to the problems of the finno-ugric minorities and minorities in general in russia. we urge the eu to take a firm stand on this issue in the framework of the eu-russia human rights dialogue. this is not just an individual case, but the rights of the mari minority and even the finno-ugric minority in general. at the same time, i urge that, within the framework of cultural cooperation between the european union and russia, programmes be launched to support the education and language training of minorities, and in particular of the finno-ugric minorities, and to maintain cultural institutions. if we fail to make progress, then this issue must be put on the agenda of the eu-russia summit, because it is intolerable that there are continuing violations in russia against the will of the european parliament, the commission and the council.
the european union has come of age, and its wisdom seems to reflect this, as it has succeeded in adopting a concise document that focuses on the values, principles and tasks ahead, and is also understandable to people. the union has thus demonstrated its ability to speak with one voice and its readiness to act on the basis of values. this declaration celebrated the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, but i would also like to remind you of another 50th anniversary, that of the hungarian revolution of 1956, which is also at the root, origin and tradition of today's european union. without the example of the hungarian revolutionaries in 1956 and the european union as we know it today, we could not have developed as a common europe. i am convinced that we need a strong european union, one that is confident in its values and identity, uncompromising in its principles and unaware of any loopholes. we want to see a union that deepens cooperation between member states, increases internal cohesion, is solidary and moves towards political integration. why are we interested in a strong european union? because it can make the nations of the world much stronger. and of course, it's also very important for power to be able to take on our past and our identity clearly. i celebrated the 50th anniversary in rome at a conference organized by civil society, and one of the messages of this conference i would like to convey to you is that we must really take on our own identity, we must really take on europe's roots, our christian roots, we must confess them. anyone who looks at europe from the outside can see what we have in common. why can't we see this for ourselves, and why can't we dare to take it all on?
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lagendijk, on his excellent report. the solution through stable, sustainable and viable regulation for kosovo is of paramount importance for the stability of the entire western balkans region. it would be a regulation without precedent since the second world war, since the peace treaty, signed in paris, with regard to the possible change of borders. the european union has and will have a primary and specific responsibility in replacing the united nations with its international presence in the territory of kosovo. this is the greatest test of the european union's common foreign policy that is now being set up. a fair and well-balanced solution must be found. the international community cannot favour one side - the kosovo albanians - and punish the other, the serbs. we have to find a fair solution. when the security council defines the final status of kosovo, it will have to take into account the problems of the influence of kosovo's status on the whole region, on the stability of the whole of central europe, on the internal situation in serbia, on the establishment of a new serbian government. the socialists support mr lagendijk's report and we support the ahtisaari plan, which is an excellent basis, but it is not the european union that will decide on the final status of kosovo, which is the responsibility of the security council. the socialists believe that after the decision of the security council, the final status should be incorporated into the documents of the european parliament. the socialists congratulate mr lagendijk and we ask you to support our proposal to postpone the final status decision.
consumers who are consciously concerned about their health and who are environmentally conscious should be assured that they can consume products that are free of chemical or genetically modified contamination. the organic production of a product should be clearly indicated accordingly. we need to ensure that products bearing the eu ecolabel are produced in accordance with 100% of the principles of organic production. we cannot make any concessions in this area, nor in the information of consumers. when using the publication services, we should also provide opportunities for them to decide whether they want to choose organic food. this is not only a consumer protection issue, but also of great importance from the point of view of agricultural strategy and market protection. a well-developed european standard, known to everyone, and the associated certification and uniform european labelling will strengthen consumer confidence, increase demand and provide a profitable livelihood for producers. however, given the different capacities and traditions of the member states, it is necessary to provide for the possibility of regulating the matter even more strictly.
the hungarian christian democrats support this report. let me respond to what has been said in the debate. the report before us does not decide on the size of the budget, nor does it intend to introduce a european tax, but merely considers the possibilities and consequences of such a tax. we are not discussing this issue early - we are discussing it late! reform is necessary because the delicate balance of exceptions is being upset by the interests of all those who have asserted their own needs in a momentary bargain. you have to move on. alain lamassoure's great proposal is to replace the current chaos with order and a more equitable burden sharing. by accepting it, we can show that we want a stronger, more efficient and more transparent european union for our citizens.
as mr lamassoure's report and the comments show, the european parliament is facing a historic opportunity when, thanks to the interinstitutional agreement, it will finally play a decisive role in the budgetary reform, not only in the spending but also in the own resources. the often small-minded and undignified debate on the preparation of the financial perspective 2007-13 has also demonstrated that we need to have transparent, long-term revenue sources in order to make a balanced decision. the european parliament has made an exemplary use of this opportunity. we have not only relied on our own resources, but also involved national parliaments, organised several joint meetings and consultations. the national parliaments were initially more interested in short-term solutions to their daily domestic problems, but now they have realised that we need to think long-term, that we need to work together to find a forward-looking solution for the future of europe as a whole.
, in writing. – last week the commission held an important and interesting conference on the ecological taxation – eco-taxes. sustainable development and a proper climate policy need political and administrative rules – strict regulations, directives, laws and by-laws. but, living in a market economy, we have to understand the importance of the financial tools as well. an adequate tax system can decrease the use of the natural resources, pollution and environmental damages, and can encourage the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency. as commissioner lászló kovács said, during the second half of his term he intends to concentrate on taxation promoting the eu’s energy targets and to fight climate change. the european parliament should call for a solid and environmentally aware european-level taxation, which can contribute to sustainable development and saving energy.
, in writing. – due to the increased occurrence of relatively important incidents within the framework of football matches, one can only welcome the austrian initiative to amend the regulation concerning security in connection with football matches. the assessment of the international police cooperation following the european championships in 2004 highlighted clearly that it is necessary to increase the international information sharing on risk supporters. however, it is important that, as stressed by our rapporteur giusto catania, the exchange of personal data should made in accordance with the domestic and international laws applicable and should not be used for other purposes. due to the constantly growing number of supporters travelling to matches abroad, strengthened cooperation between the national football information points and a genuine international dimension is required. by preventing and controlling violence and disturbances in connection with football matches, through international exchange of information allowing every member state to make efficient risk assessments, the aim should be to help reaffirm the moral and educational values of football and even sport in general.
, in writing. the report by ivo belet on the future of european professional football is a resolution of great importance. it is clear to all of us that football in europe has a multifaceted role, a significant social and cultural purpose, a popular game that allows people to meet, to learn about each other's views and also promotes social participation. the issue of racism and xenophobia is a social problem that is increasingly manifesting itself not only in our daily lives but also in the field of football. week after week, football matches are witnessing serious racist incidents, and anti-gypsyism is growing in central and eastern europe. this wildly popular sport is now closely associated with hooliganism and racist hate speech. racism and xenophobia are widespread in football stadiums, and anti-gypsy demonstrations in central and eastern europe are rife on the pitches, whether or not a team with roma fans and supporters is playing. the popularity of the game should create opportunities to combat racism, raise awareness and set an example. the fight against racism on the pitch must involve not only clubs but also the european commission and the governments of the member states, with stricter sanctions than ever before for any racist incitement in football, and consistent and strict compliance with the disciplinary rules by both uefa and the national leagues.
the rapporteur. mr president, the accession of the 10 new member states is a very complicated matter. i think that in my own-initiative report i have tried to analyse the results, the balance sheet of the accession of the ten new member states, because we are talking, in general, about the success of the accession of the ten new member states, but we must analyse exactly, in the various sectors, what the balance sheet is. as regards the balance sheet for agriculture, despite all the contradictions, i must say that it is very positive. it's a win-win situation. this means that the 15 former member states have gained because they have expanded their market. they have been successful in participating in the privatisation of this sector in the new member states. it was the producers who won the most. the new member states also won, despite all the discrimination in direct payments. they won because, for two years, they increased farm subsidies by 50%. this is a great result and we still have to talk about price stability; the commission has already made a number of proposals. as regards enlargement, there was a great deal of concern that the new member states would cause turbulence in the single market. it's not. there was no turbulence. we shouldn't have used a safety clause. this is very important and very positive and, for the new member states, producers have been able to use the direct payment funds and the rural development funds and it can be said that food security has been strengthened. but at the same time there are contradictions in the enlargement process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the crisis. and, at the beginning, 25% funding was also a contradiction; 50 or 60% would have been fairer and more justified. as far as the budget is concerned, there was no competition between the old and the new member states during those years, but there is competition in the financial perspective, because the 'cake' is the same: there are 27 member states for the same cake because of the freeze proposed by mr schroeder and mr chirac, who froze the community agricultural budget. ladies and gentlemen, as far as the new member states are concerned, i think there are some contradictions about the reforms under way. i have already pointed out on several occasions, in particular to mrs fischer-boel, that as regards the reform of fruit and vegetables and viticulture, even if there are historical grounds for this, there will be a new contradiction, a new discrimination for the new member states. finally, in my report i have tried to draw lessons from the future of the common agricultural policy and i think that what mrs fischer-boel is proposing, namely the national envelopes, in the context of the reform of viticulture, would perhaps be a good example for the health balance of the whole future reform because it is clear that for the 27 member states, which are so heterogeneous, we must play the subsidiarity card more, with more flexibility.
one of the main foreign policy challenges of this year is to lay the foundations for a common foreign policy on energy. it would be wrong to think that the short-term interest of any member state could be different from, or jeopardise, the interest of the common energy security of the european union. coordinated action, effective coordination and decision-making mechanisms are needed. the establishment and strengthening of partnerships for the diversification of energy sources is a priority. we must strengthen our foreign policy not only in the traditional regions, not only in the middle east and eastern europe, but also in the caucasus, central asia, africa and latin america. we've been talking about the nabucco pipeline for years. it's been a priority project since march. it is high time that we finally entered the concrete planning and implementation phase. each member state has a great responsibility not to jeopardise this highly important project by acting unilaterally, since this serves to diversify the european union's energy resources. it is in europe's vital interest to develop or deploy capabilities to defend its territory and to counter potential threats. he's not ready or able to do that yet. until it is able and ready to do so, the member states have the right to act independently. this right should not be denied to poland or the czech republic. of course, it would be better if we could work together to find a solution to these grave threats. and finally, the most important foundation of european foreign policy is solidarity. it is very important that we all express our solidarity with the 15 british seamen and their immediate release, but this must not be expressed in words only, but in deeds.
at their summit in march, eu member states unanimously endorsed a common energy policy. this will finally create the opportunity for europe to significantly reduce its dependence on countries that are more fortunate in terms of raw materials. one of the cornerstones of the community's emerging energy policy is the nabucco pipeline, which has been given new impetus by the member states' decision to encourage it and by the commitment of the european bank for reconstruction. in the light of the above, the statement by hungarian prime minister ferenc gyurcsány that nabucco is a dream and that we do not need dreams is of particular concern. such statements are in the interests of those who seek to divide the european union in energy cooperation for reasons of power beyond economic interests. the common energy policy must be based on a united approach, not on individual measures, because the question of european security of supply cannot be a matter of short-term interests. only a union of solidarity and unity can safeguard its interests in the field of energy.
today, there is no community energy policy, although many people would like to have one. there are two basic conditions. one is to have a legal basis, the other is to have a community resource. it is important to clarify that the desired diversification of procurement sources and the reduction of dependence on russia is a very positive goal, but behind it there are a number of political manipulations, misinterpretations, hard economic, transcontinental and european geopolitical interests and emotions. an unholy dispute is brewing over nabucco and the blue stream pipeline. many people support the nabucco project, including the hungarian government. let's make sure that nabucco is backed by private capital to finance it, that there is enough central asian iranian gas, and that there is stability in that region. let's stop with the bad and the false comparisons. the nabucco pipeline is a diversification of gas supply sources, and the blue stream is a diversification of the transit route for russian gas. all the rest is political manipulation and lies and insulting your own government.
freedom of speech and assembly are basic civil rights. a country cannot be called a true democracy if the authorities use police violence, ban anti-government demonstrations, and break up peaceful demonstrations to silence views that they do not like. the labeling of peaceful protesters as extremists, the use of police violence against protesters is unacceptable in a country that calls itself democratic. i object to what happened in russia last week. the police violence in moscow and st. petersburg should also be remembered because it took place in a country that had barely completed a decade and a half of communist dictatorship. we must warn russia and its leaders today that they can only be considered a true partner of the union and a true state of law if they respect civil liberties. there is no going back to dictatorship. but we must also know that the criticism of the european union will only be credible if we ourselves constantly call on our own member states to respect these freedoms in full. we can't use two standards, one for ourselves and one for others.
we are citizens and representatives of countries where the use of our mother tongue is considered a fundamental value. we cannot do anything about the news that has reached me that there is a candidate country where they want to dissolve a municipality because its representatives have decided to allow citizens to conduct their official affairs in the local minority language. similarly, it is incomprehensible to us that a mayor should be prosecuted for writing a greeting card in a minority language to the citizens who elected him. mr. president, i'm referring to turkey. i think we need to check these reports and make it clear to our turkish partners that the copenhagen criteria are binding on all of us. i hope that we can act effectively.
it seems that more people are talking about turkey today. allow me, as vice-chairman of the cultural committee, to say something about the turkish relationship. well, in the turkish-occupied area of northern cyprus, a lot of art has been lost recently. protected works of art, icons, paintings, mosaics and works of art, especially from churches, which form an important part of the entire european cultural heritage, were simply traded. we have information that these works of art have been largely exported to america and germany. there are even court proceedings. i would like to see somehow that the members of the council that is currently presiding get there - whether through their minister of culture or i don't know what way they find - that these works of art are returned to their original owners, the beautiful, thousands of years old churches of cyprus.
what i have in my hand is not a bottle of wine, but the disregard for european decision-makers, the deception of european consumers, the parody of inequality in the member states and the failure of executive power. here, at the seat of european law, the european parliament, in the city where the european court of justice gave its ruling, counterfeit tokay can still be bought today. 13 years of temporary exemption - mr president - that's how long we've waited for those who use names like the world's best dessert wine, the hungarian tokaji, to take their products off the market. from 31 march 2007 this wine could not be marketed with this label. however, there are some who do not seem to be covered by eu legislation. what is the basis for the union? the "quod licet iovi, non licet bovi" millennial cynicism or equality before the law? i hope that strasbourg will set an example in this outrageous matter, an example of fines for offenders. thank you, sir.
i congratulate the rapporteur and hope that we have reached a historic moment. while we have only achieved half of what we have achieved in the internal market for services, i hope that we will now achieve a major breakthrough in payment services. i myself come from a still new member state and i am confident that we can enjoy the positive effects of the opening of the internal market alongside the many negative ones. that is why i was disappointed last year when we could have had the courage to open up services which would have given the new member states a comparative advantage and would have strengthened competition in the internal market. we are here again, and we hope once again that not only can we legislate on the complex issues of a service that have not been regulated until now, but that by ensuring that new players enter the fray, we can really bring down the price of good quality payment services. the effective guarantee of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services is of paramount importance. the commission's original proposal was bold in this respect, as it would have allowed the entry of new services without any special capital requirements, breaking the monopoly position of banks in this area. this was also very well demonstrated by the survey of mrs neelie kroes. i regret that the capital requirements are stricter than the original proposal, but i hope that this will not hinder the entry of new players. the other important aspect is that the transfers should reach the recipients as quickly as possible, so that they can use it as quickly as possible. in this respect, the current compromise may be a step forward, because it shortens the considerable time until the bank can use our money for free. i am also pleased that micro-enterprises are given special consideration as individual consumers in the compromise. the agreement, which was reached in closed and elitist circumstances, i vote for. but the most important moment in three years from the transposition into national law, the review will be like the test of the pudding, the eating. if there is a positive change in the three areas that i consider important and if it makes payments cheaper for vulnerable consumers and small businesses in central europe, then we have done well. if not, because there are no new players, then we'll have to change, and that will take courage, but we'll have courage.
every time we talk about advanced therapeutics or stem cell or germ cell therapy or embryonic research or organ transplantation, there's a heated debate. our views are very different across age, gender, nationality and political persuasion, which shows the complexity of the issue. we have taken a major step in creating legislation to regulate this area, which is at the intersection of ethics and science. after all, these cures and medicines are life and death. by using them or not using them, we're making decisions about people's lives one way or another. advanced therapy is life-saving for thousands of european citizens. the last ray of hope that holds the possibility of a healthier, more fulfilling life. in the developing world, however, it can be deadly, with the illegal trade in organs already causing the maiming and death of thousands of people. but we cannot stop the progress of technology. but it is to answer the moral and ethical questions raised by technological advances. the current legislation should serve as a guide to make technological progress a matter of life. this is not a battle between good and evil, but between what is technically possible and what is morally permissible. i commend mr mikolašik and the other colleagues for the good compromises they have made, and i trust that the vote will make the legislation that is about to be adopted pro-life.
in writing. the protection of intellectual property rights is a key objective, especially since this area generates between 5% and 7% of european gdp. counterfeiting, piracy and infringements of intellectual property in general are part of a growing phenomenon that is now taking on an international dimension and posing a serious threat to national economies and states. differences between national criminal systems make it difficult to combat counterfeiting and piracy. in addition to the economic and social consequences, counterfeiting and piracy also cause problems in consumer protection, especially when it threatens health and safety. the development of internet usage allows for the immediate and global distribution of pirated products. and finally, this phenomenon is increasingly being linked to organized crime. the fight against this phenomenon is therefore of key importance for the community. indeed, it seems appropriate to have a uniform european approach in the area of criminal law, within certain limits, so that offenders do not exploit the differences between national legal systems. i agree in principle and in general with the need to use criminal law to combat the increasingly widespread and serious infringements of intellectual property. i also agree that the enforcement of subsidiarity is particularly important in the case of the harmonisation of criminal law instruments used as an ultima ratio. however, i consider it imperative that the commission should support the need for harmonisation at community level of penal sanctions as a last resort by means of thorough impact assessments.
on behalf of the pse group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr pieper, on his own-initiative report. it was very timely to put this question on the agenda. i would also like to thank you for your willingness to compromise and for the time you have devoted to producing a text that is suitable for all of us. after the vote in the committee, as a socialist shadow rapporteur, i am satisfied with the outcome and i think the final result is a balanced report. but to tell you all this, we had to change the original script. it was based on the assumption that all candidate and potential candidate countries would join the union at the same time. he analyzed the effects and calculated the dramatic financial consequences, which were unrealistic. i have tabled a number of amendments and then sought to reach compromises that would give us a clear picture of the impact of future enlargements and a proper, fair approach to the candidate countries. if we look at the impact of the accession of the candidate countries on cohesion policy individually, we can conclude that neither the accession of croatia nor the accession of the western balkan countries poses a direct threat to the cohesion policy of the union. the accession of these countries offers much more opportunities than it does threats to european cohesion. i am convinced that the rapid integration of the western balkans can play a significant role in bringing the neighbouring regions of the current member states closer together. we need to ensure that the regions currently benefiting from cohesion policy are experiencing adequate economic and social development, i.e. that they are catching up with the union average. the union should ensure that its regions cannot lose their eligibility for aid as a result of the statistical effects of further enlargements. we must take account of the union's capacity to absorb new members and of the financial resources available to finance our policies adequately. turkey is a candidate country, and its integration depends first of all on its capacity to deliver and secondly on the union's capacity to accept, rather than its unwillingness to do so. accordingly, any subsequent questionnaire and conditions are detrimental to the union's credit. let me make it clear that the purpose of this own-initiative report is to deal with the impact of future enlargement on cohesion policy and its consequences, not to take a position on the accession of certain candidate or potential candidate countries or on the status of any specific item. the socialist group therefore proposed that paragraph 14 of the report be deleted. we must be clear that turkey's accession requires a cohesion policy of a completely new scale, given its size, its population, its level of economic development and the extent of regional disparities. i support all initiatives aimed at providing more focused assistance to turkey in order to make its integration as swift and smooth as possible, and i therefore support paragraph 13 of the report. we now have a report with concrete proposals on the direction to take cohesion policy in order to continue the current processes.
when we look at the impact of further enlargement on the union's cohesion policy, we start from the assumption that member states are in solidarity with each other, trying to reduce the differences between their regions. but this goodwill is limited by our possibilities. the reporter deserves all the credit for facing real problems. the current level of cohesion policy will be unfunded if it is to be applied to the current candidate countries. but we can't have an equal sign between the candidates. for example, the inclusion of croatia is not problematic because of its size or the state of its economy. let's be honest, it's a problem when candidates are disappointed the first moment they enter. if we restrict existing programmes for the sake of catch-up, the citizens of the current member states feel cheated. in both cases, the sense of belonging is diminished. and this is not the future, there are already inequalities that are unjustified. there is no professional argument for my country, hungary, to receive twice as much development aid per capita as its neighbour romania in the first seven years of its membership. it seems that the forced compromise we have made with the current financial framework is narrowing the possibilities. looking ahead, it is a serious lesson that the union cannot function well at a lower level than that proposed by this parliament in adopting the böge report. i hope that after 2013 it will not be too late to put the böge report's approach into practice.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! i consider it of paramount importance that the european parliament addresses the impact of future enlargements from the perspective of cohesion policy, so that new budgetary perspectives and resolutions can be brought into the debate on enlargement. the background study of the report found that in a european union of thirty-four, under the current rules, croatia would receive only 7% of the increased cohesion policy support, while turkey would receive 63% of the additional funding. so i think the lesson to be drawn is that we cannot treat the candidate countries on the same level in any respect. i would like to stress that croatia's accession would not impose a significant additional burden on the eu budget, given its population and economic development. of the potential members examined in the report, croatia's accession alone would not have a statistical impact on eligible areas at regional and national level, i.e. no currently assisted region would lose its eligibility for eu financial funds. so i suggest that before we take on any candidate country, we take into account the european union's ability to integrate that country, we analyze in detail how prepared we are for a comprehensive financial reform in order to make further enlargements. in my view, comprehensive reform only makes sense if we have already achieved our current objectives in cohesion policy.
rapporteur. – mr president, i should like to present my opinion on the discharge of the 16 eu agencies for 2005. the agencies play an important role in the eu institutions’ image, because their goals and commitments are shared by all eu citizens. therefore, this 1% of the eu’s total budget is wisely spent. i welcome the conclusions by the european court of auditors that certified that the accounts of all 16 agencies were, in all material respects, reliable, legal and regular, except for a few specific observations. the positive statement of assurance for all agencies is a major achievement and i take this opportunity to congratulate them all on their efforts. i have focused on the agencies’ general functioning and i should like to devote the majority of my speech today to this issue. for the 2005 financial year, we can conclude that the agencies were by and large well managed. however, there are still areas for improvement. there were a number of problems in specific areas of financial accounting. a further problematic field in some agencies was non-compliance with procurement rules. it systems were not always adapted to needs. furthermore, we have to mention that shortcomings in human resources management, in particular recruitment procedures, posed a number of problems last but not least, it must be mentioned that, unsurprisingly, some typical start-up problems emerged in the newly-established agencies. let me present to you the nine proposals i have developed in my report, which could considerably improve the agencies’ efficiency in the interest of the union. the ever-growing number of agencies does not always reflect the real needs of the union and its citizens. therefore, the setting-up of any new agency should be accompanied and underpinned by the cost-benefit study. the court of auditors should give its opinion on the cost-benefit study before parliament takes its decision. the european parliament should ask the commission to present a report every five years on the added value of every existing agency. in the event of a negative evaluation of an agency’s added value, all relevant institutions should take the necessary step of reformulating the mandate of the agency in question or closing it. i strongly urge parliament to ask the court of auditors to insert an additional chapter into its annual report devoted to all agencies to be discharged under the commission accounts, in order to have a much clearer picture of the use of eu funding in agencies. parliament should ask the commission to improve administrative and technical support to agencies. we should call on the commission to come up with a proposal to harmonise the format for annual reporting from the agencies and to develop performance indicators that could allow the comparison and assessment of their efficiency. in my report, i welcome the considerable improvements in coordination among eu agencies. we urge all agencies to make increasing use of smart objectives, which should lead to more realistic planning and better implementation of goals. i insist that the agencies’ work programmes should express their contribution in operational and measurable terms and due consideration should be given to the commission’s internal control standards. let me now say something specific about the discharge procedure for all agencies. let me underline that all eu agencies are undergoing a discharge procedure but in two different ways. the 16 agencies with which we are dealing today are to receive individual discharge, while the rest are to be discharged within the framework of the commission’s budget. there is no agency, therefore, that is not subject to the court’s controls. however, there is a considerable lack of transparency in the management of those agencies receiving discharge within the framework of the commission’s accounts only. in order to maintain the commission’s co-responsibility and to increase the transparency and clarity of the discharge procedure for all agencies, i call on the european court of auditors to create a new chapter in its annual report that covers all eu agencies. in my remaining time, i want to focus only on the european agency for reconstruction. the results achieved and the considerable improvements put in place by the agency in order to respond positively to the recommendations by the european court of auditors and by parliament can be highly praised. i should like to congratulate the director and the staff on their work. taking into consideration the agency’s high value, parliament should ask the commission to change the agency’s mandate, which is scheduled to finish in 2008, and transform the agency into one responsible for implementing certain eu external actions, in particular in post-crisis areas. finally, i should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and all my colleagues for their work, as well as the secretariat. i recommend that parliament give a positive discharge to all 16 agencies.
the 2005 exemption is an important milestone in the reforms initiated by cocobu three years ago. one of the aims of the reform was to simplify the procedure, which could be done immediately with the positive reception of all participants. it has proved to be a much more difficult and complex task to achieve the objective that commissioner siim kallas and i share, namely to achieve a positive das by 2009 and thus to put an end to the often unfounded criticism. in order for the european court of auditors to issue a certificate without reservations, declarations from member states using 80% of the funds are required. member state governments have so far shied away from this. last year we also succeeded in reaching a positive declaration in the interinstitutional agreement, and the national audit bodies are ready to cooperate with the european court of auditors. this is thanks to the involvement of national parliaments in this work, which has provided the necessary political foundation.
drafted by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. aids/hiv, one of the most dangerous diseases of our time, knows no borders. in the past two years, the number of girls and women infected with hiv has increased worldwide, with particularly rapid increases in eastern europe, asia, and latin america. the fight against the epidemic cannot therefore be confined to the eu but requires global action. in 2005, nearly 5 million new hiv infections occurred worldwide, and aids-related illnesses claimed 3 million lives. of that, about half a million children. the other group at increased risk are women, as more and more people are unknowingly infected with hiv and become carriers, who in turn pass it on to their children. the protection of women and children should be a key element of the strategy against aids/hiv. the most effective means of combating this are prevention, education, increased use of media and the most appropriate channels of information, data collection, research and timely detection and treatment, with the aim of ensuring quality, non-discriminatory healthcare regardless of age or gender.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you for the detailed information. this afternoon, at the opening of the airbus photo exhibition, we heard about the commendable 21st century achievements of the european engineers who developed it. but we also heard from the airbus representative that the problems were manufacturing-related, that the delay was causing irrecoverable damage, and that airbus was not sufficiently european, but was rather guided by member state considerations. galileo has also started on this path, but since the spring council, the council, the commission and the parliament have finally agreed that these mistakes can be avoided in time. last autumn parliament drew the attention of the commission and the council to the many unresolved problems and delays, and we therefore welcome and rejoice in the courageous and decisive action of the vice-president. i can assure you, mr vice-president, that the european parliament will support you in solving the most difficult problems if a transparent, clear, sustainable timetable and a solution structure, and acceptable financing, are put in place, either through negotiation or through alternative solutions. what we want: effective, better governance better public governance clear political accountability with the necessary tools. we expect a clear answer on the necessary community funding and accountability. we are finally waiting for a clear answer from the european space industry, for a financial contribution, in the form of 2/3 of the funding, as the tender announcement said. galileo is the first community infrastructure and is therefore closely monitored by the european parliament. the vice-president mentioned that the ep had voted for nearly €1 billion for the galileo programme in the seven-year budget. the money is available as of january 1st, and we'd like to know what and how we're going to use it.
hopefully, tomorrow will be the end of a long journey. two years ago, when we started to negotiate this legislation, we were experiencing floods all over europe, where houses were being swept away, dams were being destroyed. my country, hungary, is an underwater country, a pool where all kinds of water flow. two of europe's five largest rivers flow through my country, so it's no wonder that it has the highest per capita water volume. of course, the damage is huge. in 2005, during the great flood mentioned, we were forced to spend more than 200 million euros on flood protection. so the stakes were huge for us. if i had to highlight one important element of the new legislation, it would be cooperation. i feel that the common, planned preparation, the sharing of information, the mutual assistance are all elements that are presented in this legislation and make it clear that only together, together, we can manage and solve the flood problem. i agree with mr dimas that the future, global climate change and how we respond to its challenges is one of the most important issues. more and more unpredictable floods are likely to sweep across europe, with more water rising and more destruction. i feel that this legislation will be tested soon, and i'm quite sure it will be tested well. fewer lives will be lost and less damage will be done because of this legislation. i am very pleased with the compromises made and i congratulate mr seeber on a very good job. i feel that we have actually succeeded in creating legislation that will increase people's lives and financial security in europe.
in writing. it is of great importance for hungary to regulate common flood protection in a european union directive. my country is a typical submerged country, where 95% of the river water comes from outside the country's borders. it is therefore important to involve subsea countries in prevention and protection work within a catchment area. i trust that the austrian, slovak and romanian experts will cooperate well with the hungarian water authorities in this work. i also think it is important that flood protection plans include potential hazards that can cause environmental pollution during floods. after all, a flooded factory or plant often causes more damage than direct water damage. since floods, like air pollution, know no borders, third states, such as ukraine, must be involved in the implementation of the directive.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, we have inherited natural resources from nature or the creator, but we are responsible for them with regard to future generations. we hear increasingly varying information on the threat to the balance of nature. two-thirds of the ecosystems on which human beings depend are in decline. europe’s demand on natural resources has risen by almost 70% since the early 1960s. this dangerous trend must be stopped. we want economic growth, because many people are still in need, but without increasing the use of natural resources and with less environmental impact. this decoupling of economic growth and the increasing use of natural resources is the main message of this report. the strategy proposed by the commission is rather weak and has no deadlines or targets. that is why i tabled around 25 amendments on behalf of the pse group. i am happy that all but one of them has found favour with the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. my fellow parliamentarians and i have proposed concrete targets to improve our commitment to the future. i propose specific targets regarding food, housing and the transport sector. in a market economy, taxation is the proper tool for regulating the use of resources. that is why it is so important to set up a european eco-taxation system. this report should be followed by specific regulations and directives to stop the self-destructive over-use of natural resources.
in writing. despite the growing evidence of the unreasonable and excessive use of natural resources and the fact that concern for the sustainability of the natural environment has become part of everyday life, today humanity, and especially the political leaders of societies, do not have a clear concept of how to deal with the problem. the political concept of sustainable development is too general to lead to tangible results, and it simultaneously attempts to address the protection of the natural environment by addressing the complex problem of intergenerational and inter-national justice. environmental testing methods (such as life cycle assessment (lca)) and indicators (such as the ecological footprint) are fraught with methodological problems and are often contradictory. while not disputing the usefulness of establishing a single, comprehensive and transparent knowledge base and developing indicators to measure the use of natural resources, it should be stressed that a number of measures could be implemented in their absence, it is regrettable that both the commission's proposal and the accompanying report by the committee on the environment are silent on the important role that the market, market-based regulation, can play in the efficient use of natural resources. it would be a mistake to forget that the co2 controls functioned properly despite the inevitable government overallocation in the first allocation period. it would be a mistake not to recognise that the lack of a single, unfettered and competitive european market is what is holding back the development of many resource-efficient solutions (such as the wider deployment of renewable energy sources).
on behalf of the alde group. croatia deserves recognition for its achievements in recent years. internal reforms have begun, legal harmonisation is well underway, and cooperation with the icty is complete. but croatia has a long way to go before it can become a member. we are at the beginning of administrative reform, important steps have already been taken in judicial reform, but more is needed. the fight against corruption has not yet produced much results, the return of refugees needs to be supported more and there is also a lot of work to do in the field of environmental protection. so the croatian government has a job to do. the pace of negotiations is lagging behind previous joint expectations, and this is not the fault of croatia alone. we too must do more to keep up the momentum and prepare for croatia's imminent accession to the institutions of the european union. we consider it important that croatia can resolve open issues with its neighbours, including the border issue, as soon as possible. this requires constructivity, flexibility, not just from croatia, but from its partners as well. if you cannot achieve these results, it seems appropriate to involve a third party. there is now a consensus among the parties on eu membership, but much of the public is uncertain. the government needs to do more to convince the public. croatia is about to go to the polls, and it's a very long election campaign. it has already begun, and that is why we must be careful to remain neutral on sensitive domestic issues. we should not take sides with one or the other force, but we should send a message to the whole of croatia. this message, in my judgment, should be positive. i congratulate mr hannes swoboda for sending a balanced report that highlights both the benefits and the problems, giving croatia an incentive to continue its efforts.
as the chair of the joint parliamentary committee on the european union/croatia, i would like to draw attention to the fact that croatia is regarded as an example to be followed by its neighbouring western balkan countries, which have also set the goal of joining the eu. it is therefore the duty of the european parliament to support its ally in the defence of european values by all means possible and to encourage the necessary reforms in a clear and encouraging message. meps who attended the last meeting of the joint parliamentary delegation in march were able to see the commitment of the croatian government to preparing for accession. it was found that significant progress had been made in all areas in order to meet the political, legal and economic criteria for accession. the dynamics of the negotiations were good and the delegation supported croatia's ambitious objective of allowing its citizens to participate in the next european elections in 2009. it shows that the government is taking effective steps to eradicate corruption, reform the public administration and the judicial system, and has made significant progress in the return of refugees, the protection of minority rights and regional cooperation. the accession of croatia has already been subject to too many delays. the lack of cooperation with the hague tribunal in the past and the current limited capacity of the eu to receive refugees and the lack of legal and contractual foundations leave the union in a state of uncertainty. as a consequence, the popularity of the european union among the population is low. i think it is right that the croatian government, in conjunction with the opposition, should provide information on the benefits of accession as part of a new communication strategy. i suggest that the eu should also develop its own consistent and long-term information activities to reduce scepticism and mistrust of the eu in the croatian nation of 4.5 million. i would like to return to mr swoboda's report, and congratulate the rapporteur, and i will support it myself. i hope that the amendments tabled by the epp will also be accepted.
the rapporteur. the european parliament has a duty to protect the rights of european citizens and there is widespread support in the european parliament for the treaty establishing a european constitution, which would also advance the powers of the court of justice. however, we are fortunate in that we do not have to wait for the constitutional treaty to be born on this issue, as the treaty of amsterdam provides for the possibility of a 'passarelle' transition. the report i tabled clearly advocates the implementation of this transition, the 'passarelle', and thus the extension of the jurisdiction of the european court of justice to the fields of european visa, asylum and immigration policies. this ensures that european citizens are fully protected by the law. my proposal would therefore make it possible to strengthen european legal protection of fundamental rights. i am therefore seeking to promote the uniform interpretation and application of community law and the establishment of a uniform system of legal protection. it is not the first time that parliament has called on the council to speed up the entry into force of the 'passerelle' bridging clause, in order to remove the limitation of the court's powers in the context of title 4 of the treaty. i ask the house to support my motion.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr coveney, on this very important report, which is so well written. the rapporteur succeeded in drawing attention in the 2006 annual review to specific areas where a greater commitment by the eu institutions and member states could really help to address problematic situations in the protection of human rights around the world. and the report has all the forms of it. the forms that can contribute to this in practice are known: the forms of regional trade agreements, the system of bilateral relations between member states or the eu directives in the field of human rights set out in five points, which should be applied consistently by member states' embassies and eu missions around the world. i think it is important to mention in the text that we can only defend human rights in a credible and consistent manner vis-à-vis third countries if we also protect human rights at home. i would like to draw attention to areas where human rights problems outside the union have long been our own internal problems. the european union is also committed to the protection of children's rights and to the trafficking of women and children, which still kills 100-120 000 people a year in the union, 40% of them children. it is equally important to be more sensitive and attentive to the plight of ethnic and indigenous national minorities, which are waiting for solutions either within the eu or in the eu's immediate neighbourhood of vojvodina or transcarpathia. in the case of national and ethnic minorities, the prohibition of discrimination is only a minimum necessary but not sufficient condition for the protection of these communities. finally, ladies and gentlemen, as the people's representative of the fundamental rights agency, i would like to express my hope that the new eu body set up on 1 march will be able to give credibility to the eu's efforts to improve the human rights situation around the world through its work and contribution.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr coveney. the biggest problem of the european union, which this report reflects very well, is that it has no standards, no mechanism to protect national minorities. not far from here, 500 metres away, the council of europe has clearly understood, whereas here it has not yet understood, that human rights and the rights of national minorities are closely linked, but are two very different issues. i fully agree with mrs gál and mrs jäätteenmäki that the credibility of the european union depends on its internal situation. what is the situation of slovenes in austria or italy? they are a traditional indigenous national minority. in latvia there are 450,000 people of russian origin who are not citizens of this country, a member of the european union. france has never ratified the two council of europe documents which are indispensable for the new member countries. that is why there are two weights and two measures and we have no real credibility when we criticize third countries. we must involve our human rights agency in vienna and correct this lacuna in the next report. and i have not yet mentioned the total crisis of integration of the new migrant minorities in france, the netherlands or england. this is the greatest challenge for europe: the possibility for migrant minorities to be integrated into the countries of western europe. i think that in the future we cannot avoid these problems, which are the vital problems of the whole of europe, of the whole of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. ukraine is a strategically important partner of the european union. we have a fundamental interest in ukraine becoming a stable, democratic state with a functioning market economy. that's why we supported and watched with great hope the events of the orange revolution. unfortunately, the period since then has shown that democratic transformation, social and economic transformation, is much more complex, more contradictory than we had hoped. the current crisis is a sign of that. the ukrainian crisis is fundamentally a domestic crisis, and a solution must be found by ukrainian domestic politics, by ukrainian politicians, through peaceful negotiations. we can help by being active neutrals. we are neutral between the parties to the dispute, but we are not neutral as to the outcome of the dispute. we are interested in ukraine becoming a stable, democratic state with close ties to europe. we can expect little from the ukrainian constitutional court to resolve the situation, as it is part of the problem itself. the main responsibility therefore lies with the ukrainian domestic forces and ukrainian politicians. negotiations are currently under way between the european union and ukraine on enhanced cooperation. these negotiations are going well. we are interested in the early success of the negotiations, but the ukrainian leadership must understand that close relations between the european union and ukraine can only be established if ukraine returns to the path from which it was diverted by the last crisis. so let us stress that the domestic crisis must be resolved as soon as possible by peaceful and negotiated means, and we are happy to help in finding this solution. we will support all processes leading to the consolidation of democratic ukraine.
i would like to congratulate mr lauk in particular on his excellent report, which takes a clear position on the sustainability of the euro area's public deficit. i would consider it important for similar analyses to be made of the performance of member states, not only of the general government deficit but also of compliance with the inflation criterion, for example. in fact, there is room for excessive procedure. i'd raise it five points. one: annual and cumulative deficits cannot be analysed statically, apart from economic growth, because the most important task for new member states entering the euro area is to catch up. this is also stimulated by the structural and cohesion funds, so that higher growth may be accompanied by a temporary annual deficit of over 3%. examples of this are the czech performance in 2005 and the slovak performance in 2006. the trend is considered healthy if the cumulative debt can be reduced. secondly, particular attention should be paid to preventing member states from attempting to conceal one-off privatisation or ppp schemes by counting them towards deficit reduction. this practice and danger were well highlighted by this reporter. the commission has therefore decided to initiate the procedure laid down in article 93 (2) of the treaty in respect of the aid scheme for the coal and steel industry. in this context, the european commission's tools for detecting fraud should be strengthened. let's see who's in, and the valuation considerations only come into play in excessive deficit procedures. this is important not only for the stability of the euro area, but also because the credibility of eu institutions in a member state is undermined by the weaknesses that are revealed and concealed after the fact. this was most recently the case in hungary, where the commission's statistics have brought a high-performing member state close to bankruptcy. this question the political role of the commission should be the subject of a separate debate. three: i think it's a political double standard, and therefore needs to be changed, that the conditions for joining the eurozone are stricter than the conditions for behaving as members. the latter has never been sanctioned, while not being allowed into the eurozone is a clear sanction in itself. you could point to the french, german or italian performances, but nobody's hair was curled, let alone had to deposit one euro. fourthly, for the stability of the euro area, i support national legislatures to introduce a ban on further indebtedness. although this is a matter for each individual and the circumstances vary from one member state to another, a positive primary balance can be expected from everyone in the euro area as a minimum requirement. five: main objective to implement the lisbon process and to help tackle fiscal policy challenges such as ageing. the most important indicator is the measure of employment, which is more objective and highlights the sustainability of public finances than the unemployment rate. this should be taken into account more in member states at risk. in addition, reducing the tax burden is an important objective, as many member states have a redistribution rate of over 50%, although their traditions do not reflect the scandinavian model.
in writing. – the worsening budget deficit in some of the new member states calls for determined and sustained action to implement, through adjusted convergence programmes, a viable fiscal consolidation strategy. nevertheless, arbitrariness in the implementation of the stability and growth pact is likely to reduce incentives for fiscal adjustment in these member states. this report on public finances in emu 2006 is therefore an opportunity to raise concerns about too rigid an approach when it comes to deal with the management of excessive public deficits. to avoid the regular infringements by member states facing difficulties in balancing their public finances, the sgp should remain an incentive to induce fiscal adjustment in eu members and thus the revision should avoid the emergence of an increased arbitrariness in the implementation of the sgp. of course, fiscal discipline is a key element in the convergence of the income levels of new member states with the eu-15. however, increased implementation transparency avoiding rigid and arbitrary procedures, as well as better comparability and reliability of data are necessary not only to facilitate new member states’ entry into the single currency, but also for the prospect of genuinely enhancing growth and competitiveness in these countries.
the main objective of cohesion policy is to create a common prosperity for europe's regions. to achieve this, good cohesion policy must focus in two directions. we need to ensure growth and global competitiveness by financing development that meets the challenges of the 21st century. encouraging innovation is key to this. but we must not forget the essence of cohesion policy. there is a great divide between the regions of europe. with many infrastructure and social problems to solve. all of these things can be changed with housing policy. we need to give the poorest, most disadvantaged people the opportunity to believe that their lives can be improved. as in the member states of central and eastern europe, the situation of extreme poverty and ghettoisation is often rural, it is important that housing eligibility is not limited to cities. but we also need to create equal opportunities for economic growth, ensure that rural people have access to high-quality education and find ways to bring innovative development to disadvantaged areas. so we can pursue policies that ensure our citizens' opportunities are not determined by where they are born.
in writing. – i welcome this report as an important follow-up to my report on the thematic strategy for the urban environment. i propose again that eu funding should be allocated and used by member states in order to retrofit buildings and neighbourhoods. member states should promote projects co-financed by the eu related to the development and modernisation of district heating. in this respect i should highlight that in an energy crisis, a switch to a different energy source is easier to achieve with district heating. many unnecessary energy consumption can be prevented with the increasing of the environmental performance of buildings with energy-efficient house design: insulation, renewable energy use, green roofs, passive/active solar design, low energy houses, etc. i recommend the development of a database for an eu-wide sharing of best practices in improving energy and water efficiency in buildings. in our member states ten million of our citizens live in pre-fabricated buildings. it is our joint responsibility to improve their living conditions and to co-finance the rehabilitation of their dwelling sites.
in writing. as the spokesperson for roma affairs for the european socialist party, i would like to draw attention to a new aspect of the report, the housing difficulties faced by europe's largest minority. for roma in particular, problems of access to and quality of housing are the main cause of social segregation problems. the main reason is that the most disadvantaged are stuck in the problem areas. i would stress that social exclusion is contrary to the european social model. greater social cohesion needs to be guaranteed, with particular attention to helping the roma minority. the problem is aggravated by the fact that a significant proportion of roma live in the micro-regions of the member states concerned, which are economically, infrastructurally and employment-wise disadvantaged. in the last decade, the separation of roma and non-roma housing has increased dramatically, and most families live in extremely poor housing conditions. i therefore propose that the problems of the roma population be examined alongside those of immigrants. complex development of the most disadvantaged areas with a high roma population is essential. improving housing conditions is linked to a large reduction in urban and regional segregation - not only in housing but also in education and employment. the creation of job opportunities through the transformation of the social support system for housing into a system for mobility can be an important tool. in this respect, i can give a good example of the fact that a few days ago i had the opportunity, together with the hungarian minister of social affairs and labour, péter kiss, to announce the 10-year roma integration decade programme, which is making significant efforts to eliminate precisely these disadvantages.
for six years, austria has been polluting hungary's only wild river, the rabah. when the pollution was protested by the inhabitants, the civilians, the local mayors, the ministers, the members of the european parliament and even the president of the republic, the austrian authorities were not persuaded to claim that they were fully complying with eu standards, thus shifting the problem of the foaming river to brussels and us, the european parliament. i am familiar with the european union's environmental legislation, but i am not aware of any legislation that allows chemicals to be poured into a river. i do not recall any european wish to see freshwater ecosystems destroyed and to have foam floating on top of them, which gives our children skin diseases. anyone who says these are eu standards is lying. the austrian ministries should not point to brussels, not write a note against the czech nuclear power plant in temelin, but eliminate their own pollution.
(the member did not turn on his microphone at the beginning of his speech, so the beginning of the minutes is missing.)... average salary is less than 500 euros per month, the minimum wage is less than 280 euros. the low wage is a legacy of the socialist planned economy, a specific public debt. in the past, the government provided many things free or at very low cost instead of wages, including a constitutional guarantee of health care. since 1990, the unpaid wages have benefited not the employer but the employee. they're not obligated to put the extra profit to good use. services have a market price, but the wage level hasn't moved. the beneficiaries of this situation are the state, employers, and countries that take in refugees from low wages. the problem affects us too, because the solution is to catch up quickly with the new member states and to make our cohesion policy a success , which must be accelerated.
the events of the past few weeks, the eu-russia summit, the russian attacks on estonia and the different interpretations of victory day on 9 may, have once again highlighted not only the economic and social differences between the new and the old member states, but also the different ways in which they have experienced the events of the post-world war ii period. for much of western europe, the victory of the anti-fascist allied powers, including the soviet union, marked a clear liberation, while in central europe and the baltic states, liberation from nazism also marked the beginning of a lasting soviet occupation, dictatorship, and sometimes mass reprisals. the eu-russia relationship cannot be held hostage to historical grievances, but for that russia must change its foreign policy, it must not behave aggressively towards estonia and other eu member states. and the new member states must move beyond their historical grievances.
i welcome the fact that, at a time when many member states of the union are working on reforming health systems, the european parliament is also dealing with the issue in a separate report, and i congratulate mrs vergnaud on her work. healthcare is a field where there is a growing tension between social and economic opportunities and obligations. the technological and digital revolution of our time holds promise for prevention, treatment, and cure, but the high cost of advancement is beyond the reach of many. it can be said that the task of a social and solidarity-based europe is to ensure that all citizens of the union have access to advanced health services, regardless of their social status, income or national borders. certainly, public health is not an economic, industrial or commercial service. however, healthcare and services gravitating around it are almost invariably profit-oriented industries and need these profits to sustain further research and development and innovation. europe, and we european politicians, must therefore also ensure that the markets for prevention, nutrition, leisure, diagnostic devices, and even medicines and medical devices, can grow, not only at the expense of the already scarce resources of public health. while the answers to these challenges are still being sought, the precondition for any solution is a shared burden, a responsibility for all 485 million citizens. it is unacceptable, for example, that in hungary, 1 million people, and not the poorest, are using universal services without paying a penny into the common. social and economic solidarity requires that workers and employers contribute to the achievement of legal certainty and equality.
in writing. no one knows exactly how many life forms there are on earth, but estimates put the number of species at between 20 and 30 million, of which we know only about 1.8 million. unfortunately, many species have already gone extinct due to the damage done by civilization before we even knew about them. in the last 100 years, biodiversity has been lost at a rate greater than at any time in human history. research shows that 140,000 species disappear from the earth every year. human activities, including deforestation, water, soil, and air pollution, are largely responsible for the destruction. and a recent report says that 20 to 30 percent of plant and animal species could die if global temperatures rise by more than 2.5 degrees celsius. it is therefore essential that the european commission develops a long-term strategy to effectively halt the loss of biodiversity. to this end, natura 2000 programmes established to protect biodiversity should be directly funded from union funds as soon as possible. it is also very important in hungary that farmers whose land has been extended to natura 2000 protection do not feel disappointed in the european union.
the legislation before us is both adequate and extremely timely, and we have no better proof of this than the fact that for six years now there has been an increasingly heated debate between two member states precisely because of the lack of this legislation. in the heart of the european union, austria and hungary are facing increasing pressure after three austrian leather factories dumped industrial wastewater into the river raba, on their border. the river is foaming, and the austrian authorities are defending themselves with a straight face by saying that the current eu legislation allows this. it is claimed that the factories are individually compliant with certain emission limits, i.e. emission limits. the cumulative negative impact of the daily release of tons of industrial wastewater on the low-water river is brazenly ignored. this legislation finally takes account of the carrying capacity of natural waters and will ban 70 dangerous pollutants, including pesticides, detergents and diluents, and heavy metals. these substances threaten the sustainability of ecosystems and human health. my amendments to classify the naphthalene sulfonates from the austrian tanneries as priority hazardous substances were supported by a large majority in the committee. that is why i am confident that parliament will pass strong legislation in the vote tomorrow. i would ask my colleagues to support my amendments and the commission's amendments and to use our political power to protect our natural waters from becoming industrial waste water. and another thing: the deadline that says we have to have the legislation in place by 2015, and the deadline that says we have to have no direct wastewater discharge or pollution to surface waters by 2025, is too long, in my opinion.
in writing. domestic violence against women is a serious social problem linked to the structural disadvantage and discrimination faced by women in a society that is unfortunately still dominated by men. this is a humiliating and degrading phenomenon which, although to varying degrees, is present in all countries and social strata and adversely affects women's living conditions, their daily lives and their participation in the labour market. i want to emphasize that violence by men against women is unacceptable in a modern democratic society. the successes of the daphne programme in the past make it clear that the programme must be continued. i think it's an excellent result, but also a great opportunity, that the new program can handle more than twice as much as the previous one, so we expect even more! in implementing the programmes, particular attention should be paid to increasing transparency, targeting and efficiency and to reaching the widest possible part of society. the comprehensive social prevention and education are of paramount importance in the fight against this harmful phenomenon. unfortunately, reliable and meaningful statistical data on violence against women in the family, which are harmonised at eu level and thus sufficiently comparable, remain unavailable. the conditions for this must be created by all possible means.
, in writing. i welcome the initiative to invite the commission to make a joint statement by parliament and the council on the initiative for a european year to combat violence against children, young people and women. i consider it a significant achievement that, when adopting the common position, the council recognised the success of the daphne programme and unanimously endorsed the continuation of the programme in its third phase until 2013. i would particularly like to highlight the increase in the budget to almost eur 117 million, which is a very big improvement compared to the daphne ii budget of eur 50 million and the daphne i budget of eur 20 million. i think it is a common success that in the course of the negotiations parliament has successfully defended a number of its amendments, such as easier access for ngos. the important result was that the continuation of the assistance service and the establishment of a centre for expert advice were secured. i see my own ambitions and initiatives reflected in the agreement to draw up a separate joint declaration on the european year against violence against children, young people and women. finally, as the spokesperson for the party of european socialists on roma issues, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the roma minority, which is often vulnerable in any case, includes the most vulnerable, children and women, who are in a more disadvantaged position. they are the most vulnerable to violence, so i urge that within this framework, their support and protection be given priority.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur and particularly welcome the powerful contribution of my colleague, ms elisa ferreira. europe has a dual view of globalisation: on the one hand, we are the most active and committed supporters of developing countries, because we believe in the values of democracy and social and economic uplift. but on the other hand, as developing countries become our economic competitors, we fear them and we fear our own wealth, our own well-being. and it is not sustainable, either within the eu or vis-à-vis third countries, that the poorest partner is the one who remains the poorest. we must remember that social progress in europe is built on economic growth, not the other way around: we can only expect our partners to achieve economic and social well-being if we allow and help them to become rich. and they can get rich in the high-powered markets, in the developed countries, in europe. if we close our market to them, we'll stunt their growth. but that doesn't mean we have to give up on our own growth, it just means we have to understand that we can't be more competitive than everyone else in everything. in the current global economic environment, we stand out with our technological advances, our environmental awareness, our intellectual products and services, our innovative capacity, and we must build our own competitiveness on these. in the global competition, europe must remember that the best bird is the goose: it sings, swims, runs and flies. not all of them the best, but all of them are the right ones. a heartwarming example.
critics of the european union very often criticize the european union for being too strong, for being too involved in everything. i'm convinced the opposite is true. we, newcomers to the european union, see the need for a stronger, more capable europe, a europe with the means to fulfil its tasks. this requires a common energy policy, a common immigration policy, a common fight against terrorism and a coordinated approach to environmental protection. all this is necessary to protect the four fundamental freedoms of the european union and to win the support of citizens. a lot of people look at this constitution as if it's the end game. we really need to put things right, and the treaty is really just a tool to achieve those goals. the support of european citizens for the constitutional project can only be regained if europe is able to achieve these common objectives. the european union is a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, and a democratic society, and a democratic society, is a democratic society. we need to affirm the common values of europe in terms of freedoms, in terms of protecting the rights of minorities. we must win the support of the citizens of europe for this constitutional treaty, not as an end in itself, but as a means to achieve the goals we set ourselves together 50 years ago.
in writing. what does europe mean to us? a community without frontiers, founded on peace, freedom and democracy, seeking to promote the well-being of its citizens by building solidarity among its member states. we have big challenges ahead of us! we need to set the right course for europe, defining its future framework, its policies and the europe we want to live and thrive in. it is important that we preserve and pass on to future generations the unity that we have achieved through decades of hard work. i believe it is important to preserve the uniqueness and diversity of the traditions of all 27 members of the european union, but i must stress that there are many goals that we cannot achieve individually, only together. it is our duty to put aside our historical grievances and to put europe on a new footing. we are interested in a strong european union that can respond effectively to all the challenges we face today, such as terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, climate change, energy policy. an efficient institutional system is therefore essential. to do this, we need to reach a consensus to advance our common cause, since without a new founding treaty (a constitution), the eu can only be a declining western extension of the asian continent. the opportunity to solve this is there, and i hope we can live with it.
in writing. the constitution-making process cannot be stopped, as it could lead to a serious crisis in the european union, a devaluation of european values and a global backwardness of europe. romano prodi and the recent history of our cooperation are a guarantee that the values of cooperation can be preserved in an enlarged europe of 27 members. for the new member states in east-central europe, a european future in which national identities are dissolved in a common european statehood is not yet conceivable. these countries have just regained their national identity from the great red melting pot of the soviet union on a historic scale, and their citizens want to be european without risking their national identity, their newly formed democratic institutions. the countries of central and eastern europe also need a strong europe, because they see their development and the protection of their national interests as best secured in a flexible europe. that is why we cannot accept the constitutional treaty as a political and legal zombie. at the same time, we are open to making the necessary adjustments to move forward.
since i was born right next to the vichy, i might call the commissar for some questions about the real situation. one is, is it not a problem that in the vajdaság the indigenous hungarian minority is still practically considered a war criminal? antigone's rights are not valid there, so they can't bury the dead, nor remember them. or is it a problem that there is no proportionality in employment, privatization, public institutions, or education? and it would be good if you answered mr. bernd posselt's question again about forced resettlement. by the way, i'd be happy to offer mr. olli rehn a complete list of all the recent incidents that have occurred in the recent past.
i congratulate mrs lulling on her report and hope that parliament will give her its full support tomorrow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the taxpayer, including the introduction of a new vat system. so it just doesn't hit the target. in essence, in a top-down system, the convergence in euro is unlikely to be significant. in addition, we can cause serious damage, because in many member states, generally the poorest, we would place additional inflationary burdens on member states with sound public finances, by means of the forcible price regulation that even marx would have been proud of, thus also curtailing fiscal freedom. and yet, they have now raised or are forcibly raising income taxes in many of them, and in addition, the maximum income would be exceeded by these punished countries - let's look at the economic analyses. but this could add another ammunition to why these countries - the baltics, the balkans, for example - cannot adopt the euro with malicious inflationary interpretations, and thus keep them well away from the eurozone. but how do we think that in bulgaria or romania, with salaries of 100-150 euros, this will not be a generator of black economy, crime, drinking? this is public health! or will they spend their half-month salary on the income tax here? not to mention the brilliant idea of imposing a mandatory minimum tax on wine as a substitute for beer, thus further weighing on the ancient european culture. if we want real convergence, and we agree strategically on this, we must put in place a code of conduct - i proposed this and the commission has accepted it - in which member states above and below the average income tax rate commit themselves to converging towards the average income tax rate only if their economic possibilities allow it. there is no question of reinstating the border, there is no question of abolishing the excise tax, this may be the only solution to the excise tax policy. member states with a large and very different development [...] (interruption of the debate).
jacques delors said at the time that it was difficult to love the internal market. now the commissioner, mr rübig and this parliament have proved that it is possible. the european union is not only about the abolition of customs duties, but also about free movement within the internal market. the european idea is being strengthened by today's legislation. in hungary alone, roaming charges are estimated to leave around huf 800 million in consumers' pockets. i'm convinced that the widespread use of telephones will make up for this loss in revenue and no employee will be disadvantaged. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner in particular on the fact that we have thought of the blind and visually impaired, for whom we will provide a voice service to inform them of prices, rather than a text message. i wish all europeans a good wander, a good holiday. let's all enjoy this success today.
in writing. the current rules on international roaming charges are justified by the fact that, despite the market liberalisation of recent years and the existence of widespread competition, the tariffs have proved to be unjustifiably high. the intervention was necessary because the market had not lived up to expectations and had shown signs of distortion. it is precisely in this context that i consider it necessary to draw attention to the point in the regulation which is aimed at preventing possible new distortions of competition in the data transmission market. this point requires the european commission to monitor and assess the data transfer market (sms, mms, internet) in addition to voice transmission and, if necessary, to consider extending the regulation to this area. the role of the international data services market is growing due to rapid technological developments. voice over internet protocol (voip) is revolutionizing telephony, paving the way for cheaper calls. the proliferation and emergence of 3g networks and other related technologies is having a major impact on the market for mobile services. in the interests of consumers and the preservation of competition, it is therefore appropriate to monitor market developments closely and to envisage proportionate intervention in the event of a malfunction. the fact that citizens and businesses pay fees that go beyond the technically necessary and justifiable costs also has a strong negative impact on competitiveness and the efficient functioning of the internal market.
in writing. – the debate on regulating the roaming on public networks activity in europe is to be seen in the broad context of a lack of knowledge and precise data on the volumes and revenues at stake. clear assessment and monitoring of the situation are therefore required if we want to successfully achieve a balanced regulation of roaming activity, a balanced approach that would take into account the interests of both the consumers and the telecommunication industry. despite the obvious lack of transparency in this area of the market, it is clear that competition distortion and excessive prices have been hampering the development of a healthy and competitive internal market in this sector. we therefore strongly support the main aspects of the commission proposal and the improvements proposed in mr rübig’s report. we cannot allow european citizens to continue paying unjustifiably high prices. we therefore have the responsibility to ensure the development of a fair, dynamic and globally competitive internal market in the roaming sector by providing accurate information to the consumer allowing them to make real choices when comparing operators. besides better consumer information and closer monitoring of the sector, we have to ensure a substantial reduction in roaming prices.
mrs. panayotopoulos' excellent report speaks for all of us. he combines the need to talk with a strong current and strategic message. it's serious because it responsibly and professionally exposes the social disparities that are accelerating the process of decline. women are more likely to be involved, because of new labour market and demographic pressures, the elderly, the disabled, immigrants, ethnically diverse people, people with low qualifications. the report is timely because the eu institutions have recently started to debate reforms of labour law, social dialogue and measures to strengthen social security. these arguments may cancel each other out, but our decision now may help them to work together. and it's strategic to say that, because it's a set of concepts of 'decent work' that justify what safe work means and what it should mean, social security, partnership, workplace rights, equality between men and women. all of this is inseparable from the strategy of eradicating poverty, of dissolving the menacing presence of the poverty trap. poverty is a disgrace on the face of europe, and the introduction of minimum wage systems in all member states is inevitable, although significant differences between the old and new member states are also to be expected in this area. yet, in the long run, this measure means the elimination of a level below that of a decent human being.
i think this was one of the most important votes, at least from the perspective of our citizens. the more ordinary citizens are not familiar with eu law, the more they are curious about what eu membership means in their everyday lives. if borders collapse, if we can cross from one country to another without a passport, then the question arises why we have to pay extra penalties for making a phone call across borders. i think it would have been most appropriate if parliament had taken a decision to abolish roaming charges altogether and to say that mobile phone charges are the same within the european union. however, i realise that this would have been difficult to introduce as a first step and therefore i welcome at least a gradual reduction in roaming charges. there are 10 million people in hungary, 9.5 million of them use mobile phones, and i think it's very, very important that we voted for this.
as co-chair of the delegation of the american international republican institute, i was able to participate as an observer in the recent nigerian elections. in my experience, i must first say that the successful coordination of the work of the many international delegations carrying out the work of the observers was exemplary. as for the elections themselves, i can confirm the assessment of my colleagues that the nigerian elections cannot be considered either credible or free. they didn't meet international norms, nor local norms set by the abuja government. we have identified serious shortcomings in the voter registration system and in the provision of information to the public. in many cases, ballot boxes were missing from polling stations that had been opened late. the vague procedure for aggregating the results also raises suspicions of fraud. it is a well-known fact that the results of the individual constituencies were not made public. the elections were also marred by violence. as we have already heard, some 200 citizens have lost their lives in clashes over the vote. the mass irregularities are particularly painful in light of the fact that previous elections in nigeria were conducted in a much more orderly manner. but this time, we were saddened to see that the electorate's commitment to democracy - and this is very important - was not matched by the government's desire to hold the elections within the law. we who were there saw that the nigerian people are committed to the values of democracy. in the midst of often chaotic circumstances, they waited with dignity for the moment to exercise their democratic right. it is also in europe's interest that nigeria, through the consolidation of democracy, should become an exemplary state on the african continent. it is therefore important that the european union continues to facilitate this process as an active observer.
the european union's economy is facing increasing global challenges. to meet these needs, highly specialised, well-cooperating companies are needed for innovative activities with high added value. small and medium-sized enterprises are facing a number of problems at present. these are characterised by their size, which makes them difficult to see at european level and to access the services needed to be internationally competitive. this size-related market disadvantage can be overcome through networking and clustering. clustering, the creation of growth poles, is therefore an important and effective tool for economic development. while development poles undoubtedly play a key role in enhancing european competitiveness, the focus of the european union's innovation strategy should not be on development hubs alone, but on the union as a unified alliance of developed and less developed areas. increasing innovation opportunities should also play a key role in reducing regional disparities. better cooperation is needed between different organisations, economic actors, universities, research centres and the public sector. we need to ensure that the knowledge acquired is translated into the way businesses operate. we need to simplify administrative processes, make financing easier and create a tax system that encourages businesses to increase their capacity to innovate. the innovation strategy should also make the union's economy more attractive and competitive by revitalizing european business. it would be a unique opportunity to make developments available to everyone through the european development centre and to create the possibility of a continuous exchange of information. innovation for all, the aim being to improve the living conditions, the quality of everyday life of citizens throughout the union.
on behalf of the pse group. the excellent dunn report is a valuable contribution to the committee's communication. as co-rapporteur, i consider it of paramount importance that the union can contribute to improving the everyday security of citizens and to strengthening the integrity of politics and public administration. we, the socialists of libe, in connection with the report, are urging progress, implementation, in a few areas in particular. cooperation between police and judicial authorities in the member states should be strengthened, in particular because in a europe without borders, crime, especially organised crime, can only increase without more effective cooperation between these authorities. the independence and competence of europol and eurojust should also be gradually strengthened in order to have a european-level police and judicial body that deals with crime comprehensively above the member states, thereby encouraging domestic bodies to work accurately and without corruption. member states should be encouraged to support and finance the competent authorities in matters relating to organised crime and their training and cooperation programmes in order to improve and increase the effectiveness of cooperation. we believe that the witness protection programme can only be further developed at european level, as most countries are not able to hide citizens who testify against organised crime on their own territory and must ensure their protection. one of the most important tasks is to provide the concerned european citizens with adequate information on european actions and the successes of good cooperation, thus enhancing the usefulness of european cooperation in the field of communication. and then some of the spikes that were under my fingernails. in my amendments to the committee i have tried to draw attention to the fact that the member states have very different histories and their citizens have different social structures. in each member state, certain criminal law concepts have very different meanings from those in other member states. it may be that in one member state you are subject to a serious moral judgment, while in another it is a matter of civil virtue. a hungarian political scientist said that a country is corrupt when its citizens don't even think about buying a train ticket when they board the train. and we don't ask ourselves where to change trains. just as i believe that in the geopolitical and economic spheres, there will be sub-policy areas that will become targets for organized crime, and if we don't address that and we don't have a national security-type approach, we're going to be in danger. i hope that we have not had a misunderstanding of principle but of language, and that our support for this report will be based on a consensus of principle.
the rapporteur. the european commission's proposal can be seen from two perspectives, and i hope you will listen to what i say. the first criterion is whether the proposal is justified, the second criterion is whether the proposal is legal. as regards the first aspect, we have a fairly easy task, since we have to examine whether the reasons for the proposal are still valid today. six months ago, when the commission put forward its proposal, it said that there would be 9 million tonnes of intervention stocks of maize today and 11 million tonnes by the end of this year. these facts have not been verified. the intervention stock is currently only 3 million tonnes instead of 9 million tonnes, stocks are not increasing, there was no intervention bid in 2006 and there will be no intervention bid in 2009. stocks are falling steadily and instead of the 11 million tonnes forecast for the end of the year, intervention stocks could reach zero. the current prices are substantially higher than the intervention price. contrary to the commission's reasoning, the market prospects for maize are good. the commission should also read its own market forecasts. last week, the agriculture directorate-general published a brand new market forecast. it means that prices are going up. eu consumption is growing faster than production. we should base our current decisions not on the wrong forecasts of six months ago, but on the latest forecasts, backed up by market developments. i would add that since 2004 every evening the intervention stocks have been sold above the intervention price. the eu received more money for the corn than it bought it for. the price of maize in hungary is currently around eur 130 compared with the intervention price of eur 101. for maize farmers, however, the acquisition avoided losses of around eur 200 million in 2005. the sale of the purchased products enabled, in particular, dutch, german, italian and polish farmers to buy feed at a significantly lower price than the world market price. over the past four years, not only have european farmers benefited from these interventions, but consumers have also benefited. however, the commission panicked because intervention stocks had increased significantly in two years of record harvests. there's no need to panic now. in the years of poor harvests, stocks have shown a decline and, according to the latest forecasts made by the commission, these stocks will remain low in the future. it can therefore be concluded that the proposal in the form in which it was submitted by the commission was unfounded and that the original grounds were found to be false. so let's see if the proposal is legal. the proposal is to end the intervention this year. the farmers planted the corn in april, and the crop has grown to this size. please look at this, the size of the corn. i picked this corn here by the rhine. i hope the owner won't be angry about this, after all, i'm protecting his interests, his rights. this corn can't even be ordered back into the ground by the european commission. of course, farmers had to prepare for sowing much earlier. in the fall, they set aside the land to plant corn. they ordered the seeds and the pesticides, paid for them. in the meantime, any restriction on the intervention system is retroactive. it seriously undermines legal certainty, the legitimate expectations of farmers. the european union, so proud of its principles and the liberal rule of law, cannot afford to do this. this proposal is not only contrary to our principles but also to the commission's own past practice. the previous reforms - sugar reform, the abolition of intervention in rice - allowed sufficient time for preparation. for example, when the intervention in the form of a fine was abolished, a year elapsed between the publication of the legislation and its application. why are corn farmers not entitled to equal treatment? aren't they equal citizens of the european union? if this can be done with farmers, who's next? if the european parliament does not protect the rights of its citizens, how can it protect its own rights? because in this case, you'd need that. the council did not, in fact, await the adoption of parliament's opinion. last week the committee on agriculture decided to withdraw the intervention retroactively. it was also decided that the ministers would vote on this at the next council meeting without debate. whatever decision we make, we can no longer influence the council. we are not going to decide tomorrow on the future of the cap, but we will discuss this at the 'health check'. we will decide not to accept the retroactive regulation and now we can be honest and stick to our principles and it follows that we must reject the commission's infringing proposal.
in writing. i have serious reservations about the european commission's proposal to end intervention for maize. the european commission has repeatedly ignored the interests of the new member states in particular. the move is completely illegal, because by december, the farmers had already bought the corn seed, had signed the contracts, so they can no longer transform the production structure. the proposal is all the more strange because the rules for buying in maize for intervention were changed less than two months before the proposal, which shows that the european commission is running out of ideas. the european court of justice is about to start hearing the case, following the submission of the hungarian government. the abolition of the intervention system is unfounded and detrimental to the union as a whole, as it is forecast that within a few years there could be a shortage of maize in the union. the international competitive position is being undermined by the fall in prices now that the intervention on maize has been abolished. this step could call into question the solidarity of the eu in the eyes of hungarian and european farmers.
on behalf of the alde group. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs nicholson on her comprehensive and important report. i know that there was a lot of pressure on him and he was able to withstand it. i know it's not easy for a british mp to disengage from domestic politics, and he has. for that, i respect you and support your report. the european union is strongly committed to mitigating the damage caused by the earthquake in kashmir. we have committed eur 100 million and in the coming years we will provide eur 200 million to pakistan and eur 470 million to india as development aid. it means that we have a moral right to express our opinions on these issues. we are concerned that serious human rights violations have occurred on both sides of the 'line of control'. but it's very encouraging that prime minister singh of india has announced zero tolerance, and apparently in the last few years there's been very positive progress in the areas under indian control. we expect the same from pakistan. we also expect pakistan to take a much more decisive action against extremists and terrorists and not allow them to infiltrate into indian-controlled areas. the conflict is not just a border issue. it can't be solved overnight. building trust is the first condition for resolving conflict. the baroness nicholson report shows where we really need to improve this situation. we need to create the social, economic conditions. family reunification must be made possible. trade links need to be boosted, infrastructure needs to be developed, new educational institutions need to be established and jobs need to be created. but that's not enough. it is necessary, but it is not sufficient. it is important that we have a political dialogue with the indian government, the pakistani government and the entire spectrum of kashmiri political life, with all the forces that are willing to renounce violence. it is very important that kashmiris are involved in the solution of the problem, because there will be no lasting solution to the kashmiri situation until kashmiris have their freely, democratically elected leaders involved. i think india has shown a great deal of flexibility in the last period, and we expect the same from pakistan, because we have important relations with both countries. both countries are important partners and our main interest is that both countries peacefully and constructively put an end to the conflict and in the meantime everything happens in an atmosphere of trust and dialogue.
in writing. according to the treaty, the union's objectives are to preserve peace and our fundamental values and to promote the well-being of the peoples of the member states; to create an area without internal frontiers offering freedom and security to its citizens; to achieve balanced economic growth based on a social market economy with full employment; to ensure equality between men and women; and to promote solidarity between member states. the period of reflection ended with the german presidency. berlin was given the task of laying the foundations for the new treaty by the june 2007 summit. if the june summit is successful, the member states will give the next portuguese presidency a mandate to convene an intergovernmental conference with the aim of drawing up the full text of the new treaty by the end of the year. if the member states are able to agree on a new treaty, it will be possible for the new european parliament and commission to start work in 2009 on a more efficient, transparent and democratic basis. this includes speeding up decision-making, clearly defining the competences of the eu institutions and the member states, respecting subsidiarity, and strengthening the equality of member states. we must also find a way of finally giving more attention to the instruments and policies needed to achieve our common objectives. the common success depends first and foremost on the political will to act together.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur and support the efforts to combat terrorism and crossborder crime and to strengthen crossborder cooperation. i would like to emphasize that this fight is directed against a harmful phenomenon of our time, which is the victim of innocent citizens, including women and children. i therefore regard as highly significant the initiative presented at the informal meeting of the german presidency of the council of the european union on justice and home affairs in dresden in january 2007 to incorporate the prüm convention into eu law. an important element of the proposal is the establishment of mutual access to specialised databases, the establishment and operation of national contact points and a high level of data protection. i would emphasise police cooperation in border regions and the implementation of joint operations and cooperation in the event of mass events and major disasters. however, i regret that the proposal omits the range of measures applicable in the event of imminent danger, as well as the air marshals case, the area of combating illegal immigration and the wider range of rules and cases for border police cooperation. the right to a safe life must be guaranteed to all. however, in order to protect personal data, i consider it necessary to clarify, as regards the rules on data transfer, which law enforcement bodies may receive the requested data through the contact persons. it is also necessary to establish sufficient practices that meet the necessary level of data protection and that their automatic application does not hinder the exchange of information between member states that is to be achieved.
mr president, yesterday, two members of the hungarian parliament sent a bottle of polluted water from the river rába to the austrian minister for the environment. if you say it is clean drinking-water, please taste and drink it: that is the message behind their gesture. i have not come here with polluted water. i came only with clean words. dear austria fans, dear fellow parliamentarians, please help us to stop the river pollution on the austrian-hungarian border. i know that many austrian ngos and political parties are protesting against the dangerous activities of some austrian companies and have obtained promises to stop them or at least to use filters to minimise the pollution. what we need now, after many protests and promises, is action in the interests of a clean environment and the traditional austrian-hungarian friendship.
the two years since the shock of the french and dutch referendums have been a so-called 'period of reflection', during which, unfortunately, nothing but thinking has taken place. the pause for thought meant that thought was stopped. the european union is finally waking up from its rosemary nightmare, we have moved beyond the deadlock. hungary has always supported the constitutional treaty in its entirety, ratifying it for the second time in december 2004. we aim to preserve as much as possible of the original text, but we are also prepared to make sensible compromises, because improving the union's functioning is of paramount importance. four objectives are essential: to preserve the values and objectives of the current draft, to make the institutions work more effectively, to strengthen equality and solidarity between member states, and to further deepen integration. europe must act if it does not want to face a deeper crisis.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, this morning on the plane from budapest to brussels i met the director of the hungarian national philharmonic orchestra. he congratulated me on the gibault report and told me how satisfied he and his colleagues were with it. the congratulations should go to mrs gibault, who worked hard in a good spirit and with good intentions on this very important subject. all of us respect artists and recognise their important contribution to european culture. we should help them by improving their social status. it is crucial for them to have information on the various social arrangements in the different member states, for instance, in terms of health insurance systems and unemployment and pension provisions. in fact, some of the new member states provided rather good social conditions for artists during the so-called ancien régime, but that changed during the transition period. time spent by artists on rehearsals should be considered effective working time. the free movement of artists, and employees in general, from the new member states is still not ensured. visa facilitation for third-country performers is important, but we must give priority to the free movement of all citizens of the european union. i welcome the report. my fellow socialists and i will vote for it. however, as a member from a new member state, i have to call for free access to the labour market for every european citizen. it should also be mentioned that some leading hungarian artists refuse to travel to the united states owing to the degrading treatment inflicted by the american border authorities.
in writing. the european union needs a constitution! the treaty on european union can play an important role not only in enhancing the european union's importance in world politics, simplifying community law and decision-making, increasing its transparency and thus its closeness to citizens, but also in helping to create a business-friendly environment, in perfecting the single internal market. the constitution also created a competition issue. it's a response to both external and internal challenges. the treaty adopted in june 2005 contains the basic values, common and community policies, which have emerged in the course of the communities' development to date and whose preservation is in the interests of the whole of integration, of all member states and of the citizens of the union. the treaty was signed by the heads of state or government of all the member states and was ratified by 18 of them. despite the unsuccessful referendums in france and the netherlands, the potential for integration in the creation of a constitution must not be lost. the german presidency's intention to start work on the preparation of the new draft treaty, in which the european parliament intends to play an active role, is welcome. the draft contract now being drawn up should contain as few amendments as possible and should ensure that the community values referred to above are preserved unchanged. i think it is important, however, that a more thorough and longer-term objective information campaign on the amended treaty be launched in all member states, partly with community funds, in order to achieve greater acceptance by the general public. the european parliament and its representatives, who represent the interests of the citizens of the union, should have a prominent role in this information.
the european parliament has recently, to the delight of all of us, played an increasingly important role in the cooperation of the european institutions and has also gained a growing reputation in the eyes of the european public. this is due to our successful information policy, as well as to politically and professionally sound legislative work. however, in order to achieve the desired results, our information policy, which includes, in addition to the web-site, the reception of visitor groups, exhibitions and information offices in the member states, needs to be adequately funded, i.e. budgeted. as both quaestor for this portfolio and member of the committee on budgets, i hope that the european parliament will be able to adopt a united position on this financing issue, thus ensuring the successful implementation of this policy which is so important not only to the european parliament but also to european public opinion.
the excellent report by salinas garcía reflects that it is basically a good report. i would mention four positive aspects: the national envelope system, support for production and sales organisations, risk management and school fruit. that would be a very good reform if i didn't come from a new member state. however, this reform discriminates against the new member states in several areas. first, it discriminates in the area of direct payments. for example, hungary contributes 2% of the eu's vegetable production and receives 0,61% of the costs of vegetable production. the second discrimination concerns processed products. neither polish berries nor cherries nor products from the new member states were included in the list of products to be processed. and now they're going to allocate this money on a historical basis, and ultimately the three old member states are going to get 800 million of the 1.4 billion. this is a very big injustice to the new member states, and i ask that it be corrected.
in writing. the report by mr gunnar hökmark rightly states that the spread of broadband communication technologies is not only a purely professional issue but also affects many other areas of the union's life. in the context of the lisbon strategy, we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that europe is lagging behind other regions of the world in terms of competitiveness. the increasing use of broadband could significantly improve the declining trend in competitiveness. it would make the european economy more efficient and give a boost to research and development, another area where the eu is lagging significantly behind. we believe that it is essential to create an effective and strong community regulatory framework, to harmonise territorial regulations and to remove the various obstacles that distort the functioning of the market. member states should also be encouraged to set up effective local development programmes. the structural funds are essential for broadband deployment in the new member states, which are significantly behind the old member states. support for broadband solutions is not just an economic issue. their widespread use contributes to the principle of solidarity. connecting to less populated areas can help to retain the population of villages and help to integrate the less mobile society into the economic and cultural life of the eu. last but not least, it can help protect the environment. the commission has therefore concluded that the measure is compatible with the internal market.
the production and consumption of alcohol probably dates back to the time of mankind. hieroglyphics in egypt, four to five thousand years old, clay tablets in mesopotamia, are evidence of the efforts of ancient people in this area. after the greek gods dionysus and bacchus, the middle ages and christianity brought new life to the culture of distilled spirits in europe. technologies have improved, concepts and names have become more precise. in my country, hungary, the pálinka, the 100% fruit salad, was part of our gastronomy already in the renaissance, and around 2-300 years ago, technologies and products were developed all over europe, which we can still enjoy today in the same composition. but in the last 50 years, commerce, advertising, and then consumerism itself have completely distorted that once-clear picture. the modern chemical and spirits industries are constantly creating new flavors, new smells, and an amazing variety of beverages. now, you can make anything from anything. but with that, of course, came a breakdown in tradition: fewer and fewer people know what, why, and when to drink. ladies and gentlemen! i'm conservative in my political views and my food habits. i like things to be what they are and not what the advertising wants you to believe. that's why i support a strict definition of all drinks, including vodka. palinka is made from fruit, vodka, grain, potatoes or sugar beets. that's obvious. if we blur the lines, we are not following the path of quality, progress and our traditions, but we are further blurring an already confusing picture. so we can easily walk around like george orwell's hero in 1984 who can't tell us what he's really drinking. like everyone else, in the book, he calls gin that horrible-tasting, smelly stuff.
in writing. i welcome the proposal to ban all trade in dog and cat fur in the eu, as i find it unacceptable that some two million dogs and cats are slaughtered for this purpose every year. for one dog hair, you have to kill 12 to 15 dogs, for one cat hair, you have to kill 24 cats. the vast majority of european consumers condemn the barbaric slaughter of their favourite pets and do not want to buy such products. importers therefore often label cat fur with various fancy names, misleading the well-meaning buyer. a uniform eu ban is needed to put an end to this barbaric practice once and for all. the self-regulation of the companies, as so often, has proved ineffective in this case, since traders do not indicate the animal from which the premiums are derived. fifteen member states currently prohibit the marketing of dog and cat fur, but the others have not yet introduced a general ban. the single ban is an important step towards a more humane, animal-friendly european society.
learning should be encouraged, especially if a young person wants to work in several places. the role of mother is a difficult and demanding one, but the much-talked-about knowledge society cannot be all-male. in the absence of adequate support, young women tend not to continue their studies, drop out and never start again, which inevitably leads to inequalities between men and women in terms of professional life and later performance. we must give all the help we can to women and young couples in this child-oriented, ageing europe: those who start a family, those who have children. if this is coupled with the ambition, the ability to learn, which is essential for self-development, then society should reward and support this. the cultural committee also strives to remove all obstacles to lifelong learning and to ensure that students with family responsibilities, taking into account their specific situation, such as mobility difficulties, have access to training opportunities. this requires the development of social networks in the member states that show solidarity with the families that play the greatest role in sustaining society. we need a system of kindergartens and nurseries that provide adequate care for the youngest, schools that provide afternoon employment for children under expert supervision. this is not only a matter of money but also of attitude, since it depends to a large extent on the family, education, social, employment and youth policies of governments. we are slowly reaching the point where every child born is worth gold or even more, it means the security of our future, the sustainable development of our nations, their survival. i congratulate the rapporteur, because although education, training and the various family support systems are a matter for the member states, the presentation draws attention to solutions and good practices, so that this report is extremely useful for all member states where this issue has been neglected.
mr president, mercury is not only a metal but also an ancient part of our culture and civilisation. people have always admired it and believed in its magic powers. for many centuries, mercury had a crucial role in alchemy and the secret sciences. mercury, the only liquid metal, is a beautiful material, and one can admire it as a unique piece of nature. however, according to new information, mercury is also a dangerous material and we should protect ourselves and future generations against its toxic effects. the workers in the traditional mercury mines, mostly in spain, lead a hard and honest life but know that their former profession is over. we should respect the miners’ traditions, but the need for a ban must be understood. the european union has already banned the use of mercury and materials containing mercury on its territory. now we want to ban the export of mercury as well. we do so because we also care about the health of other countries and continents. hopefully, our decision will encourage other countries to reduce their use of mercury as well. as the shadow rapporteur for the socialist group, i had consultations with our spanish colleagues in the spirit of solidarity. their understanding was crucial for me. my other guideline was parliament’s resolution of march 2006. our decision should balance environmental concerns and the interests of the industry. as far as the date of the ban is concerned, different proposals were tabled: 2011 by the commission, 2009 by the rapporteur and 2008 by the ngos. i decided to suggest 1 december 2010 as an acceptable compromise, in accordance with parliament’s resolution of last year. other dates and deadlines should correspond with this basic date. if we voluntarily ban the export of mercury, it is more than logical to ban its import as well. as far as storage is concerned, there were different proposals: almadén by spain, a salt mine by germany and solidification by others. as we have not yet settled on a solution, we should not support amendments excluding specific potential solutions. we should support our spanish socialist colleagues’ proposal calling for compensation for almadén, the largest european mercury mine. the scope of the ban should cover every material with a mercury concentration of 5% or more. we have to close loopholes, as it is very cheap to convert mercury into calomel. it is very important to each of us to aid agreement by means of a simplified compromise package, otherwise we will run into chaos and, most probably, there will be no regulation before the next parliamentary elections. as shadow rapporteur, i worked for a compromise. a good compromise serves our citizens better than postponed debates that do not lead to any kind of regulation.
farmers have suffered terrible losses not only in poland, but also in hungary. many farmers' crops were destroyed. what the commissioner said is clear that the cap currently offers farmers rather limited opportunities. it is clear that the current legal framework places the primary responsibility for helping farmers in difficulty on the member states. so this is a question that seems to be primarily in warsaw and budapest right now, but in the future, we have to change that. the cap has the potential to do some good. natural disasters cannot be considered as a calculated risk inherent in the functioning of the market and agricultural production. the european union must be in solidarity with farmers and we must make efforts to create in the future the institutional framework for joint assistance at european level, which is also needed because if these issues are to remain essentially a matter for the member states to deal with in the future, this could create contradictions, as different member states may respond to these issues differently. in one, farmers are helped, in the other farmers are not helped, and this will not meet the need for a level playing field. i therefore ask the european commission to put forward as soon as possible a proposal to implement the institutional framework for joint assistance at european level.
as you know, 2006 was the european year of mobility. representatives of the european institutions, representatives of member states' governments, representative organisations of employers and workers have expressed their views on the importance of promoting mobility in the union at a number of professional events. this suggests that both the eu institutions, the european commission, the council, the parliament and the member states have made a strong commitment to increasing mobility in general and in principle. however, this is true only to the extent that this important matter is discussed in a general way. as soon as concrete measures, legislation, are decided, well, then the enthusiasm that decision-makers mentioned in the general discussion of the subject evaporates like magic. you're going to have problems, problems. this is also the case with the debate on new legislation to ensure the portability of supplementary pensions. many of my fellow mps are bent on stability, total immobility. they argue that there is a historical model in germany which cannot be altered in the slightest. i have a great respect for historical traditions. but this is in the interests of all european workers, of the whole european economy. i decided i thought that was a higher perspective. the momentum of european development must not be broken by particular interests which, if taken into account, would cause tens of millions of workers in a given member state to suffer severe discrimination in comparison with other workers in the union. the promotion of mobility and the portability of supplementary pensions are certainly issues that need to be addressed at eu level. if we don't do that, we're going to fall further and further behind in the global competition that we face with our rivals, the economies of southeast asia, india, north america. we need to see that there are unstoppable processes going on, that cross-border groupings of the workforce are essential. as the english say, "must be". i'm asking you to support this. and one last note: the pension, the investment, belongs to the worker himself, even if it is paid by the companies.
on behalf of the pse group. i thank the rapporteur for the year and a half of work during which he has shown a remarkable openness and willingness to compromise. i can't thank you enough for your openness. since you've been elected commissioner, we've been working together on this. the result is a report whose ambitious political messages have been reinforced rather than dampened by the usual number of compromises. this is very much needed, as it is a matter of preparing european society and the economy for the digital age. this requires that the widest possible range of european society have access to information technologies. in the margins of the report, we should therefore emphasise the importance of e-inclusion, i.e. the importance of enabling people living in rural areas, people with disabilities, the elderly and those with the lowest incomes to access europe's digital bloodstream. there is no doubt that the future belongs to the information society and the knowledge economy. once we have recognised this, we must also accept that trade, the market for goods and services and, with them, consumption, is becoming knowledge-based and digital. and the consumer remains a consumer on the internet, with rights and obligations. first of all, you need to know what you're dealing with. with advertising, with free newspapers, with goods or services. knowing this, you should act as consciously as if you were in a traditional library, bank, travel agency, or store. you need to know what you can and can't do. in the face of law-abiding behaviour, it should enjoy the protection afforded to law-abiding consumers in the traditional market. however, in the digital environment, there are a number of factors that fuel consumer distrust. the ease and speed of information flow, the frequent lack of consumer information, the rapid and widespread spread of illegal behaviour are all reasons why an internet user may cross the line of law-abiding consumption, even in good faith. it is our political and political responsibility to create the means in the european electronic environment to ensure that our internet users remain law-abiding consumers. i can say on behalf of the socialist group that in the longer term we will insist on an electronic consumer charter which will provide each consumer with clear and comprehensible information on what to do in his or her situation on the internet. however, parliament is aware that the dynamic development of the digital environment and the ongoing review of consumer protection legislation will have a significant impact on the content of a future charter. however, consumers still need to be informed and we therefore ask the commission to prepare a guide on the rights and protection of e-consumers in the current circumstances and on the basis of current legislation. in this context, we propose that the network of consumer protection centres should be modelled on the solvit system and the dolceta website, i.e. a european e-consumer information and assistance portal to help european online consumers with advice, answers and solutions. we also insist on clarifying the legislation on the use and protection of digital content, as interoperability of devices and content on the one hand and digital rights management on the other are two important foundations. finally, i would like to draw the attention of consumers and industry to the fact that this is in their common interest. as in traditional markets, they are also expected to behave lawfully in the digital market. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european consumer rights committee, which is responsible for consumer protection.
mr president, i have brought a cube with me, which shows the flag of the european union – the 12 stars. it was manufactured in germany, invented by a hungarian and consists of 27 pieces. i have brought it just to remind us how difficult this treaty is to put together. just like the cube, it should bear the symbols, it should have a message and be a keystone and a foundation for our joint european building, but, at the same time, it is made up of 27 pieces. so this is how i congratulate the german presidency on putting these 27 pieces together again, because there are big and small pieces – not every piece is the same. this cube is not always so beautiful, because you can see the division lines. however, from now on this could be kept as a good foundation stone. i should like to add that the word ‘fragile’ should be written on its box. all of us in the european parliament and in the council have to take great care to keep this cube together. i am very happy that europe is finally trying to swallow what it could not swallow for several years. in that sense, it makes europe stronger, because we all need something that could be a foundation stone. we need a common foreign policy, and joint action on fighting climate change and on guaranteeing human rights and minority rights without double standards. from that point of view, i really appreciate that a reference to minorities has not been omitted from the reform treaty. however, i also deplore the missing elements, especially the reference that people wanted to leave out of the treaty – the symbols of the european union, the stars, the flags – or any reference to christianity. this should not be done. let us keep this cube together, and we must be careful because it is fragile. (applause)
in writing. the political agreement reached last week on the convening of the intergovernmental conference and the basic principles of the reform treaty is a big compromise, but one that can be accepted by all. the reform treaty has lifted the european chariot out of the pit and has prevented a more serious and protracted crisis from taking place on the european scene. the reform treaty is essential for the functioning of the european union and its institutions, and for further enlargements. in decision-making, the principle of the double majority properly balances the interests of small and large countries. the european parliament is the clear winner of the reforms, as the extension of its legislative powers places its political weight alongside that of the european council. at the same time, supporters of the constitutional treaty must not forget the enormous significance of the symbols. the integrationists did not want to create a european superstate, but they wanted to strengthen the legal and decision-making functioning of the common will, if you will, over the nation states. the role of the nine and hungary among them in preserving the most important values in the constitution, including the charter of fundamental rights and the representation of minority rights, was exemplary. the political storm in the council has taught us a particularly important lesson: the position of the countries of central and eastern europe, because of their unfinished history, can sometimes only be integrated into the decisions of the eu27, if it is made at the cost of tough compromises. it is therefore time to start dealing with the historical grievances of the east-central european member states with european involvement. this is the only way to avoid that the region or some countries become politicised by the insult.
in the region of central and eastern europe, since the change of regime, freedom of expression and assembly no longer have to be protected primarily against the state, but against the growing forces of extremist, neo-fascist principles. these are usually non-parliamentary, but extremely violent political groups. there are also countries where exclusion and intolerance are part of government policy. they intimidate different national, ethnic and sexual minorities. they are restricted, they are denied their rights, they are humiliated in their dignity. in recent weeks, gay people in several member states have celebrated their equality. in some places, a mass celebration of millions was uninterrupted, in others, far-right forces provoked street conflicts. in the spirit of french president jacques chirac's farewell speech, i call on the conservative forces in europe to lend a helping hand to those who are threatened and to those who support them, both at european and national level. together, let us defend the dignity of european citizens and stand up against homophobia and all forms of exclusion. if we don't protect the rights of others today, we may not be able to protect our own tomorrow.
as live earth concerts were held across seven continents this weekend to stop climate change, to reduce carbon emissions, a shocking announcement was made in slovakia. just 20 kilometres from the historic tokaj wine region, an investment group is planning to build the largest coal-fired thermal power plant in slovakia. the plant will emit four million tonnes of harmful substances per year after it is commissioned. because of the prevailing winds, this huge amount of pollution would almost immediately fall on hungary. there, the world-famous tokaj hills wine region, a world heritage site, is located. it is also home to the bükki national park, which is a significant natura 2000 site. it would be contaminated by acid rain and soot. in a time when one of the biggest challenges is to reduce carbon emissions, when we are desperate to preserve biodiversity, no eu country, not with its immediate neighbour, not with the rest of the eu, should do so in such a gross disregard for our shared values and commitments. i ask my distinguished colleagues, especially my slovak colleagues, to speak out against this investment. it's not enough to applaud at a concert, you have to act.
in writing. many people have reservations about food additives. partly because of a lack of knowledge, partly because of the scandals and abuses. the commission's intention to tighten and simplify the legislation in this area is therefore welcome. i think it is a good initiative to have a new list of positive, safe additives. of course, consumer considerations must also be taken into account, which may vary from country to country, and even from smaller regions to smaller regions and on a generational basis. it is also important to encourage young people to eat as much natural and healthy food as possible. i think it's very important to protect certain groups, like people with allergies. as rapporteur for the gmo report, i am in favour of the clear indication of the presence of gmos in the additive on the product. confidence in the product can only be increased by authentic and accurate information. the authorisation procedure should be made transparent and the use of safer substances should be encouraged.
on behalf of the pse group. i congratulate the rapporteur who, together with the shadow rapporteurs, has done a very productive job in a very short time. thank you and congratulations. we have reached an unusually large number of substantive compromises in the draft report. on the question of ownership unbundling, we must accept the decision of the democratic majority, at the parliamentary committee meeting, everyone voted for ownership unbundling. at the same time, we are now formulating policy guidelines, not laying down rules. so it's a good idea to leave most options open. separation of ownership seems to be the most effective solution, but it is not the only option. the socialist group will therefore support the amendment which extends the impact assessment to the iso model for system operators. on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to welcome the new chapter on the social consequences of market liberalisation and consumer protection. i would ask the commission to follow up the recommendation in the report and to draw up a charter of energy consumers' rights as soon as possible, possibly this year. it is now an indisputable fact that everyone needs energy, which is why we are putting the consumer at the heart of our future energy policy. in practice, consumers are often not aware of when, under what circumstances and how to exercise their right to energy. they need information, help, and, if necessary, protection. i would point out that parliament is preparing to adopt a very firm, forward-looking position on market opening and regulation. we will continue to insist on the independence, the tasks, the cooperation of regulators, the transparency of the market, the implementation of developments as co-legislators in the future. finally, i would remind everyone that the aim of energy policy is to ensure europe's security of supply, competitiveness and reduction of carbon dioxide. competition is just a tool. so let's not confuse the two and let's only apply competition - for example in the case of long-term price agreements - if and to the extent that it really serves security of supply and competitiveness.
recognising europe's energy vulnerability, more and more people believe that a strong europe cannot exist without a common energy policy. when we think about the possible future pillars of the common energy policy, it is worthwhile to appreciate the pillar that already exists today. mr vidal-quadras' report is about this already completed pillar, the internal energy market. i agree with the report's finding that the expansion of the eu's internal energy market and the creation of effective solidarity mechanisms between member states serve both to increase security of supply and economic efficiency. however, the internal market is today characterised far more by the hungarian saying 'as many houses as there are customs'. unfortunately, many member states have not yet fully implemented the energy market liberalisation directives. the opening of the price market in hungary, for example, is expected to be delayed by only six months, and if it does happen, a new obstacle to free competition will arise: excessive market concentration. the long-term ppas concluded between magyar elektrómű and the electricity producers cover about 80% of the hungarian market. the european commission assumes that these agreements involve illegal state aid and is therefore rightly concerned about genuine competition. if the market opening takes place within this framework, then we can be sure that consumers will not benefit from it. prices will not fall, nor will the quality of services increase. if we want to prevent liberalisation from failing, we must also guarantee the application of the principles. i therefore hope that the common energy policy guarantees for a strong europe will be put in place as soon as possible.
in writing. this regulation is indeed a major step forward in the community harmonisation process. in a unifying europe, it is essential that the same national law is always applied by the courts in similar cases, irrespective of which national court is dealing with the case. this is indeed a significant increase in legal certainty for individuals and businesses involved in crossborder disputes and avoids 'forum shopping' - i.e. the possibility for claimants to bring proceedings in the member state of their choice - while preserving the autonomy of national law. i consider it important that we have succeeded in ensuring that in crossborder road accidents the court takes into account the actual circumstances of the victims in terms of compensation. the specific rule on unfair competition is very important for judges and lawyers, and it also severely restricts the buying of 'forum'. it is regrettable, but in the interests of a comprehensive compromise, that there is no regulation on the infringement of personality rights, in particular on the rules on defamation in the press. we hope that this issue will be resolved as part of the review of the regulation. it is important to define the concept of 'environmental damage' in line with other eu acts, such as the environmental liability directive. on the whole, i consider the final text to be a satisfactory and balanced compromise.
the full opening of european markets is an important step towards removing the remaining obstacles to the european common market. parliament's political agreement will allow all postal operators currently in a monopoly position to prepare for competition by the end of 2012. i congratulate the rapporteur on this agreement. our aim is to ensure that european legislation puts everyone in a competitive position, so that companies competing in the opening of markets are not put at a disadvantage by this legislation but open up new perspectives. this requires that the revenue sources provided for by the directive currently in force be made available to the companies and posts concerned until the end of the derogation period. i've put together a motion with 40 of my fellow mps, and it clearly and unambiguously states what these licences are. i ask that this motion be supported by the house. on the other hand, we expect the postal services to use this derogation period to be able to compete effectively in a way that does not harm small businesses. my colleague mr becsey has repeatedly pointed out that the parliamentary agreement provides the opportunity to put the mandatory universal service on a more secure financial footing, and that is what the european citizens expect from us. so i want to make it clear to all of us that there is still a lot of work to be done here after the legislation is passed.
the european postal sector contributes 1% of the union's gdp and employs almost 3 million people, which indirectly affects some 5 million people through family members. pricewaterhousecoopers' study shows huge differences in the readiness of individual member states for full liberalisation, with the universal postal service providers and those employed in the sector in the new eu member states particularly at risk. rapid liberalisation may cause significant business losses for public service providers. in the uk, the market was fully opened on 1 january 2006 and in one year royal mail lost 2 billion business letters to competition. many jobs could also be at risk, for example in germany, where the head of deutsche post believes that the opening of the market could lead to the dismissal of up to 30 000 people if the market for small letters, which is currently still in a monopoly, is reduced by 20%. after careful consideration, it is no coincidence that the majority of ep committees do not consider the 2009 date of full market opening acceptable, but instead propose a later date, 2013 has been mentioned. it is clear that the full extension of the four freedoms, including the community principle on services, should be supported, but it is essential that all member states have sufficient time and a precise timetable for vocational training, which can be verified by the commission. in the context of liberalisation, it is essential to ensure free competition by providing for uniform employment conditions for all postal services operating in the sector, which guarantee that new entrants are subject to uniform quality of service criteria and employment conditions. brian simpson, thank you for your excellent cooperation in listening to the voices of the new member states.
in writing. – first of all, i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur, ieke van den burg, for her excellent report on the white paper on the financial service policy 2005-2007. this report and the white paper are indeed of the utmost importance since it is obvious that the creation of a genuine european world leading capital market in line with the objectives of the lisbon agenda relies profoundly on the viability and consistent nature of the community’s financial regulations. besides the viability of the financial regulations in line with the objectives of better regulation, it is necessary to foster the transposition of community law by the member states in order to achieve efficiently the thorough implementation of the financial services action plan (fsap). it will of course be necessary to assess the real effects of the implementation of the fsap for its beneficiaries and, in this respect, i fully support the rapporteur when she calls for a more in-depth examination of the economic effects of the fsap measures in the light of the lisbon strategy. consistent implementation and continuous evaluation of the financial regulations are indeed the key elements for a successful achievement of a dynamic european world leading capital market.
in writing. i welcome the european commission's initiative to open up the debate on modernising labour law, which is a very courageous step. i'm all for a shady approach, balanced professional adjustments. i do not think it is right that some people are glorifying atypical forms of employment and are recommending that both national and eu legislators recognise at the political level the primacy of atypical forms of employment over the classic, indefinite-term employment contract. i cannot accept that any atypical contract would be of higher value in itself simply because it is atypical. on the other hand, i do not think it is a good idea to try to impose a wider application of traditional employment contracts on employers by legislative, administrative or official means. it is necessary to recognise that our economies are faced with external economic pressures in the context of globalisation and must respond to them in order to continue to function. a balanced approach to this difficult issue is to recognise the right to exist for both traditional and atypical forms of employment. a wide range of different contract forms must be provided for entrepreneurs and, in the face of the challenges of the 21st century, we must also provide new answers to many old problems. in the field of the further development of labour law, both eu and national legislators have important tasks to perform.
the rapporteur. parliament welcomes the mid-term review of the white paper, the founding document of european transport policy. we welcome the fact that the commission has carried out its report on this subject after extensive consultation and thorough work. we also welcome the fact that it has proposed changes to existing transport policy in several areas. parliament recognises the achievements of the last five years, but we are also critical in several respects. parliament calls on the council and the commission to regard our proposals as a cornerstone of european transport policy. well, what are they? first, the experience of recent years has shown that the weak point of transport policy is the application of the rules. implementation is often delayed, sometimes incomplete or not at all. the commission's report fails to address this problem with sufficient thoroughness and honesty and therefore fails to propose a suitable solution. parliament stressed the importance of cooperation between the european, national and regional levels, and the need to strengthen and coordinate it. secondly, the majority of parliament is of the opinion that transport policy should be shaped more realistically than before. the review rightly recognises that transport as a service is a key part of the economy and society, and cannot be separated from it, and we propose to integrate it fully into the lisbon strategy. most of us agree that existing capacities should be used more optimally, either individually or in an integrated way, and that each mode of transport should be sustainable in itself, particularly in logistics. in addition to commodification, in some areas, especially in long-distance transport, a significant role is attributed to the modal shift. thirdly, the lack of adequate infrastructure financing poses a risk to the growth of the european economy. the commission report, but also the council resolution, does not adequately address this problem. european transport needs more community funding, more funding from member states, bolder financial solutions and, above all, political support to deliver on its key projects. we ask and expect that the work on the revision of the seven-year budget be started immediately. fourth, let's talk about the changed circumstances and new challenges since 2001. among these, i would first highlight the tasks arising from the reunification of europe in 2004 and 2007, which have significantly increased the differences within europe and also the diversity that needs to be analysed much more carefully in european legislation. we also share a common interest in an interconnected and interoperable trans-european network. the full use of cohesion resources should therefore be a shared responsibility of all levels and all institutions. fifth, we must face the fact that the impact of transport on climate change has increased and continues to increase. while the spring council set out some honourable general objectives, it is the legislation before us that will have to be put into practice in the coming period. for example, the commission's proposal for internalising external costs, due in 2008. sixthly, it is relevant and we must also expect that conventional measures will slowly reach the limits of their effectiveness, so we must exploit the potential of intelligent transport systems. we need to create the right legal, economic and technical environment for the industry. we have community projects, large, comprehensive projects, promising joint european projects. however, the union has no experience in these innovations and must lead the way. but what good are european responses to climate change if we cannot apply them globally? mr commissioner, we believe that, after the mid-term review, european transport policy must be continuously renewed in this sense, adapted to new challenges, because otherwise congestion, pressure on the environment and problems of social sustainability will be serious obstacles to europe's economic growth and prosperity. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have given constructive support to the preparation of this report.
two weeks ago, 20 members of the european parliament visited china, and this visit to china has shown that the picture is much more complex and nuanced than what we have here. i fully agree with mr fjellner that the 21st century can be the century of china and that for the european union this is a huge challenge and a huge opportunity. there's a very big asymmetry, not just in trade, but also in the fact that the chinese know the european union much better than we eu people know china. the picture is much more murky, whether it's human rights or other issues. it's a huge competitive disadvantage for us. it's not just that we don't know mandarin chinese, it's that they know english and european languages much better -- it's a huge asymmetry. we have to move beyond that, because if we don't change that, we're not going to make any real progress.
i myself support the compromise approach that has been adopted in the postal liberalization. but i did abstain from some of them, and i'll tell you why. this was for the countries in 7/a that had been given a transition until 2013. the reason i am abstaining is that i think it is unacceptable to say en bloc, without an individual examination, why groups of member states are being given transition. among them are the new member states, which is offensive to me because it puts my country and the other new member states in the category of third world countries, since we have not examined individually who would be entitled to it on the basis of what. but i also think it is unacceptable to say in a slendrian way that small member states should be given a certain transition because who are the small member states? so we need to be more precise here, we need to be more precise about who we are talking about, and i hope we will do that in the second reading.
i am glad that this debate is taking place now and that i can draw attention to some of the consequences of enlargement in the context of the two themes in common. first of all, i am pleased that not only the representatives from the candidate countries for the euro area and the rapporteur, but also my german colleague schwab, have noticed the problem that the interpretation of the reference country for the inflation criterion for joining the euro area - that is, all the member states - is different from the one we use for the ecb's objective, which is valid for the 13 member states by default. despite mr almunia's reply to us yesterday, parliament must continue to insist on the logical post-eurozone reference adjustment in the reform treaty. is it not a double standard that the euro area member states do not have an excessive inflation procedure, but that we have stricter inflation expectations for those who wish to join? i would point out that while the euro criterion uses 27 member states as the reference base, the same definition applies to only 13 countries in the governing council of the ecb, since i do not yet know about the participation of nationals of member states outside the euro area. i therefore see a double interpretation of the contractual term 'member states of the european union'. we hear a lot of talk about solidarity, but we don't see it, for example, in the use of euro banknotes. the smallest banknote, the €5 note, will be worth many times the value of the smallest national currency note ever issued in the new member states, forcing these residents to run around with bags of cash. at the same time, there is the 500 euro note, the largest denomination, which will often correspond to six months' pension there. but i haven't been able to use this banknote to pay for weeks in strasbourg or brussels. if you could find someone to replace him, i'd be very happy to. what's that got to do with riga? i would add that mr rosati's comments on the internal market and the extension of the four freedoms are very serious. but i have a question: how is it possible that those who are participating in monetary integration today are also prohibiting the free movement of labour among themselves, fearing the slovak labour force? how can eu legislation indirectly exclude labour-intensive activities in services? thank you, madam president, and i hope that the expansion of the euro area eastwards into the former soviet sphere of interest will also begin soon.
the arrangement that rewards the albanians and punishes the serbs is not sustainable. the eu is trapped, a prisoner of bad russian-american relations and a prisoner of russia's growing great power politics. we can't afford to blackmail russia, but without it, there is no good, lasting solution. we cannot tolerate albanian blackmail either, because without eu aid, an independent kosovo is not viable. serbia has lost confidence in the last decades, and its actions against the kosovo albanians have lost kosovo, so its independence is inevitable. but this is still a matter of negotiation, unilateral steps must be avoided, the ahtisaari plan is partly good, but not enough. it is a minority part, territorial autonomy, but at the same time all of europe is indebted, because it has not clarified the issues of national self-determination and territorial autonomy for decades, and we must clarify this.
on behalf of the alde group. macedonia has been an official candidate for two years now and has a clear european perspective. however, we still do not know when accession negotiations will start. we, the liberals and the democrats, want these negotiations to begin as soon as possible, perhaps as early as next year. but that's largely up to macedonia. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the acquis is fully implemented. there is a need for reform of the public administration, judicial reform, police reform and strengthening the fight against corruption. we regret that since the elections last june, the reforms have lost momentum. we ask our macedonian friends to prepare for the accession once again, and more vigorously. we consider it important to implement the ohrid agreement in full, because we want the negotiations to start as soon as possible. it's good to see the main opposition party back in parliament after a six-month boycott. in a democracy, a democratic party must protect the interests of its constituents in parliament, so we welcome and are glad to have you back. the question of the constitutional use of the name macedonia is considered a bilateral matter. the problem of the uncertainty in the situation should not prevent macedonia from being admitted, but we hope that the negotiations under the auspices of the united nations will lead to a satisfactory outcome for all as soon as possible. we want these to go well. finally, we welcome the successful conclusion of the visa facilitation negotiations. we consider it very important that from 1 january macedonian citizens will have much easier access to the territory of the european union, but we consider this only a first step. we have an important objective that in a short time, in a foreseeable time, all macedonians will be able to enter the european union without a visa.
a performer and a writer. i am very pleased that it seems that the agreement needed for the joint decision can be reached before the summer break at the first reading. all three institutions have done a great deal of work. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commission on the excellent work it has done, and its proposal has been an excellent reflection of the current community priorities and the current nice treaty structure. i would like to express my particular appreciation for the fact that the german presidency, and mr rademacher in particular, the head of the statistical office, has dictated the council's position at an incredibly fast pace. the priorities of the european parliament were thus taken into account in the work. but i must also express special appreciation to the shadow rapporteurs of the other two big groups, the socialists and the liberals, for the work they have done. this has led to a near-unanimous majority in the economic committee in favour of the joint compromises. but what has parliament achieved in this joint text? one of the major results is that the main part has expanded the range of topics that the commission has proposed as priorities, which are otherwise correct. this includes the aspects of innovation, human resource development, regional cohesion and demographic challenges. this has resulted in a balanced, not overly ambitious, list of priorities. i also consider it an important joint achievement that a proper compromise has been reached in the area of cooperation between systems at national and community level and statistical governance. i hope that this will also bear fruit in terms of quality, which will be particularly important to mention in the future in the context of the oral question, because of the reliability of macroeconomic estimates and short-term statistical data. but what was the reporter's priority? in addition to improving the quality and speed of the statistical service, i considered it my task to ease the financial and administrative burden on the competition sector, especially on small and medium-sized enterprises. it was also important that the protection of individual business data and the obligation to provide general statistical data should not be confused due to regulatory requirements. it has also been possible to minimise the international reporting burden, mainly due to the un obligation, mainly through the flexibility of the shadow rapporteurs. both domestic and international obligations are a challenge, but i expect a more cautious approach here, and we have agreed to that. we must not overburden ourselves with the export of statistical skills and know-how. i also feel that it is a result of our agreement on the main lines of the mid-term review report for 2010. on this basis, i would like to see a commission proposal for a regulation which helps to overcome the political problem of the statistical concept not determining the work programme of another new parliament and commission, but also to enable our new colleagues to integrate their work programme into the clear framework of statistical work. we also referred to the major challenges we will face in 2010, such as the reform of the cap and the financial directive, the entry into force of the services directive or the emergence of new community policies, immigration, crime, monitoring of climate change, and also in the field of statistics. parliament's greatest success is that, as of january 2010, the semiannual professional reports will not only reach the members of the european statistical network and the expert committees, but also formally the council and the european parliament, on the basis of the proposal. these corporate bodies will thus be able to express their views on the strategic and tactical issues of the next parliamentary term. in the area of sectoral priorities, parliament's concerns were also incorporated into the report, as was the case with the human resources development index, urbanisation, equal opportunities for women and the challenges of measuring agglomeration processes. thank you, madam president, and i'll move on to the other question. on entry, there is a great hope that the macroeconomic surveillance system and the fact that we have a common concern with the economic policies of the member states, and there is a stability and growth pact, will help us to make the country more secure as a member of the eurozone than outside. the treaty declares a common political responsibility for the economic policies of the member states, and i believe also for their bankruptcies. the european parliament elects and supervises the commission, which also supervises eurostat. since 2004, the greek and hungarian problems have shown a serious deficiency in this system. in both places, there was economic policy and data magic that affected the elections, which later not only required severe corrections, but also undermined the credit of the common institutions. the eurobarometer also showed a very serious drop in hungary. since 2004, hungary has consistently had several percentage points of discrepancy between the promised results and the reality later admitted. for example, there is a large difference between 2005 and the end of 2006, with a debt-to-gdp ratio of more than 10 percentage points, i.e. between what was promised and what was later realised. unfortunately, mr. almunia is not here, but if he could hear, he would hear that it was not market forecasts that were taken into account in 2005 and 2006, like goldman sachs or standard & poor's, but rather the misleading comments of the government in hungary. the market saw the disaster, and the bureau of statistics' illegal takeover. yet the forecasting system failed. the most shameful was the situation in may 2006. at that time, mr. almunia predicted that all indicators in hungary would improve, inflation would be low, growth would be high, while the prime minister had already predicted an extremely serious austerity problem and program. he confessed to sending mr. almunia phone calls, employing hundreds of tricks. then mr. almunia - if you were here, you would hear - raised his hand: we didn't count the pension deficit, we didn't count the hidden deficit of the state-owned enterprises, we didn't know how to count the highway. all of this, i think, is just a rambling. the conclusion is that the hungarian prime minister admitted to a serious political collusion, unfortunately with a member of the commission, and it shows. this magic can never happen again, because elections are coming, elections will be held at other times, and only the recognition of reality can help. i therefore think that the commission must also accept political conclusions, since the price for these credit failures will be paid not by us but by the people of hungary.
on behalf of the alde group. at the end of 2004, we all received with great joy and hope the news that ukraine had voted in favour of european values and democracy. since then, we have seen that consolidating the rule of law, democracy and free market economy is not an easy process and ukraine must be very careful to preserve the achievements, because they are still fragile. we therefore welcome very much, as mr kamiński's report makes clear, that the european union is not turning its back on ukraine in this difficult period, but is offering enhanced cooperation. we have a fundamental interest in ukraine becoming an independent country with a european orientation. we are interested in having a strong democracy based on the rule of law, and we are interested in having a functioning market economy. that's what we're trying to help you do with this contract. ukraine must see that it has its own duties and obligations and that this agreement only makes sense if ukraine is able to overcome its difficulties and to face up to its problems. we believe that the relations between the european union and ukraine should not take the form of a partnership agreement but rather an association agreement. we hope that the association agreement will replace this partnership in the future. the establishment of a free trade area between ukraine and europe would be important later on, as economic ties are becoming larger and closer. we consider it important to increase the support to ukraine in the context of the review of the neighbourhood instrument. we therefore consider it essential, after the review period and even now, that a greater share of the support should go to building civil society and strengthening independent media, which is what is needed in ukraine. ukraine also has a role to play in the field of market economy. the complex system of state aid must be reformed, and intellectual property and foreign investment must be given greater protection, since there are many problems in this area. we welcome the visa facilitation agreement we have signed, but we consider this only the first step. we think this can really bring ukraine and europe closer together. in this spirit, we support mr kamiński's report, which is based on a broad consensus.
first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur on this very well-done, excellent report. for development to really take place in the regions most in need, we need to take better account of their specificities. it can be seen that during the first period, inequalities within countries showed an increase. the growth rate is good on a national average, but concentrated in the capital and urban areas. meanwhile, in the typically rural, village areas, increasing poverty, classic ghettos have emerged. this problem is far beyond the scope of rural development, and it is only through the targeted coordination of funds and complex developments that there is hope for any change. i therefore believe that it is necessary to give priority to rural areas. similarly, greater emphasis should be placed on the integration of minorities and related training and retraining programmes. i also believe it is important to increase the absorption capacity of the new member states and to extend the technical assistance needed for this purpose. integration can thus become a tool for a europe of the regions.
life has quickly vindicated the professionally grounded arguments that my colleagues and i in the european parliament have used against the european commission, which has abolished intervention in maize. the commission feared that the surplus of maize would make the intervention system unsustainable, whereas market trends did not show this. the commission bought it for 101 euros and now it is selling it for twice that, so it is profiting handsomely from this whole intervention on maize, while europe is suffering from drought and farmers do not have enough grain. this calls into question the credibility of the union, that there are stocks that still exist, but speculative multinational companies buy these stocks, and honest farmers cannot feed their cattle enough. this undermines the credibility of the european commission and the european union.
in writing. natural disasters in the summer. climate change has made this summer a series of disasters. record floods, droughts, and wildfires have devastated europe. in hungary, a large part of the corn crop was destroyed by the drought, more than 400 hectares were destroyed by forest fires, although our firefighters were brave not only at home, but also in greece. the eu must draw the right conclusions from all this. i would remind you that both the fires in greece and sicily have been suspected of arson. it is very important that damage caused by arson where protected natural values are damaged or destroyed should not lead to the reclassification of those areas. if a deliberately discarded chip can be used to trick the authorities into granting building permits that have been refused for conservation reasons, then europe will soon be on fire. the european union and its member states should pay particular attention to the professional restoration and replanting of the areas thus destroyed. finally, i would like to draw your attention to a small but unfortunate organizational error. while before the creation of rapid relief it was possible to access eu reparation funds in a very short time, as little as 2 months, now it is close to a year. i hope that the union will change this practice and that aid will be disbursed quickly again, because we must remember that a quick donation is a double donation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to my report – i am very grateful for their help. in recent years, the commission has become more and more concerned about the quality of community legislation, both in terms of clarity and accessibility, on the one hand, and of its effectiveness and positive impact on citizens and business, on the other. the commission usually refers to these goals as ‘better regulation’ or ‘better law making’. as a matter of fact, better regulation aims at maximising the benefits of modern, rational and effective legislation, whilst minimising its costs, so that productivity, growth and ultimately employment can be ensured at the highest level throughout the european union. there is no doubt that better regulation is fundamental to ensuring a fair and competitive market place, citizens’ welfare and the effective protection of public health and the environment. it is an important part of the lisbon strategy, as it can boost productivity and employment significantly. better regulation is shared responsibility. eu laws are transposed into national law by national governments and parliaments and are often applied at regional and local level. there is a risk that laws are progressively embellished along this chain from conception to implementation. the responsibility for regulating well is hence a shared one. many member states now carry out impact assessments, and some have been developed guidelines. however, only a relatively small number of countries systematically carry out an integrated impact assessment for new legislative proposals. legislating at european level has reduced much red tape. one common rule to apply in all member states is much simpler and more efficient than a complex web of varying rules at national and regional level. european legislation has been effective in removing harmful barriers to competition and conflicting national rules, so the simplification programme can generate tangible economic benefits not only through reducing administrative burdens. the experience of member states demonstrates that public authorities can do a lot to reduce unwarranted administrative burdens of legislation. such action, according to the commission, would boost the eu economy by about 1.5% of the gdp and free up an estimated eur 150 billion for investment. in my report, i support the objective of ensuring that the regulatory environment is necessary, simple and effective. on the other hand, however, we have to stress that such a process should be fully transparent and based on the full involvement of the european parliament with public scrutiny and wide and open consultation of experts and all the relevant stakeholders – not only government or business, but, particularly, non-governmental organisations as well. furthermore, i would like to suggest the creation of an impact assessment board. it is of the utmost importance that this body, which will offer advice and support in developing a culture of high-quality impact assessment inside the commission, acts independently of the policy-making departments. however, this does not necessarily mean that impact assessments must be carried out by external experts who do not belong to the institution. it is also necessary that the impact assessment board helps develop a common methodology for all impact assessments. furthermore, i would suggest a special project within the impact assessment procedure – so-called ‘social benchmarking’. this project should focus particularly on sensible target groups, for example disadvantaged people, women, ethnic minorities, parents raising children, the elderly, and permanently ill and disabled people. in summary, i should like to emphasise that better regulation aims at more simple, clear, citizen-friendly regulation, with continuous impact assessment, with a special focus on those vulnerable groups that cannot defend themselves. clarity, transparency, simplicity, cutting red tape are perhaps the key elements of my report.
several speakers also stressed that increasing geographical and professional mobility within the union is a key task both in terms of reducing unemployment and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. the union of 27 has very large labour reserves, but is unable to provide employment for a significant proportion of those starting their careers and those over 50 due to the uneven regional distribution of job vacancies. as a result, in many member states, the acceleration of immigration of workers from third countries is on the agenda, even though adequate and skilled labour is available within the union. the eures network plays a key role in connecting the supply and demand sides, but unfortunately it has not been adequately supported to date, even in terms of eu funds available for development. it is easy to see that i heard 700 eures advisers, commissioner špidla said 800 when compared to the fact that 20 million citizens are unemployed in the 27 member states, this is clearly very small. 25 or 26 advisors to 1 to 1 countries, that's a drop in the bucket. it's not enough to do the job. another problem i see is that the portal mainly contains information on jobseekers and to a much lesser extent on job providers. according to the latest figures, only 11 000 firms are represented on the eures portal, so a much larger information campaign would be needed to involve economic operators more than at present. i therefore consider that it is in the common european interest to further develop and promote the eures network and portal and therefore propose that the proposal submitted be adopted.
i would first like to congratulate you on the transparent and meaningful discussion that your colleagues had with us before the report was drawn up last year. i would also like to congratulate mr toubon on the preparation of this report. i would like to speak in particular about paragraph 40, which emphasises the responsibility of the member states. perhaps my most important thought is that member states owe it not to the european commission or the european parliament to implement the rules of the internal market, but first and foremost to themselves, to each other and above all to their own citizens and businesses. therefore, we cannot dismiss the results of the july 2007 internal market scoreboard or the data presented therein. the full implementation and adoption of the acquis communautaire was a condition for the new member states that joined in 2004 and 2005 respectively. the scoreboard shows that the old member states almost without exception have the highest number of directives not implemented for two years after the deadline. the four highest transposition deficits were in the old member states. the internal market default rate is 1:2 between each old and new member state, but sometimes, as in slovenia and italy, it is 1:8. the direct consequence of this is that unequal treatment, discrimination is clearly to the detriment of the beneficiaries. when we talk about the internal market of the future, we must therefore clearly emphasise that countries and businesses that are behaving in a law-abiding manner and transposing the acquis communautaire must not be at a disadvantage in the further development of the internal market. congratulations on your report.
in writing. – this own-initiative report is an excellent opportunity to feed into the current review of the single market. it is therefore the occasion for our parliament to stress the benefits consequent to a genuinely completed single market. more specifically, while highlighting the challenges faced by the single market, the report brings forward concrete recommendations. among these recommendations we particularly support the emphasis given on the importance of tackling climate change through sustainable development actions; the necessity to substantially increase consumer confidence in cross-border purchases; the underlined competitiveness, growth and employment potential of innovation and smes; the encouragement of genuine free movement of workers throughout the union and, more generally, the removal of all obstacles for the completion of an integrated and efficient single market. of course, these recommendations need to be transposed into single market directives so that they will be thoroughly implemented by the member states. in order to achieve effective completion of the single market rules, the union must give itself the necessary enforcement tools for encouraging cooperation between national administrations, setting up information contact points for businesses and citizens, improving the efficiency of the complaints procedure, and undertaking actions through the relevant courts when necessary.
thank you to my colleague ayala sender for her excellent report. a comprehensive material covering all areas was produced, which contributed to the emergence of the commission's action plan. the future of the european economy depends on modern, efficient freight logistics across the eu. its existence contributes to sustainable economic development, improving competitiveness and ensuring regional development. however, this requires increasingly high-quality, precise, efficient and secure logistics. the key is to coordinate transport modes in such a way as to take full advantage of the efficiency and benefits of each mode. this requires that the technical, practical and economic conditions are met in combination. effect studies based on a common strategy are also needed to develop logistics. it is important to separate the roles of the public and the private sector. efficient logistics is the key to sustainable mobility. advanced logistics solutions contribute to the optimisation of freight transport, so it is worth exploring here the possibilities of r & d support for the development of logistics.
in writing. excessive alcohol consumption is a serious scourge for european societies. countless lives have been lost to alcohol-related diseases, and the number of drunk driving deaths is also extremely high in the member states. alcohol consumption patterns vary from country to country, and even from region to region, and it is therefore right that protection strategies are born in the member states. however, there is a need for uniform eu guidelines. the protection of minors from alcohol must be ensured by all means, and to this end, stricter penalties than ever are needed. in the spirit of 'eat or drive', zero tolerance and zero to zero alcohol levels should be introduced for drivers throughout the eu. but prohibition is not the only way forward, as the ugly failure of alcohol prohibition in the united states has shown. promote cultured drinking habits, low-alcohol beer and quality wine. the placing on the market of adulterated, counterfeit, poor quality and unhealthy alcohol varieties should be firmly opposed.
i would like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her excellent work and also welcome the commission's mini-milk package. the new member states have been able to deviate from eu fat standards thanks to the derogations they have fought for, but the good news is that we can continue to consume our familiar dairy products after 2009. however, with the expected increase in trade between member states as a result of liberalisation, greater attention should be paid to food safety aspects. i would like to draw the honourable member's attention to the growing problem of food safety throughout europe. this is particularly true for the new member states. i support the proposal adopted by the committee on agriculture that the budgetary savings from standardisation should remain in the milk sector. this money should be used for two purposes. on the one hand, the restructuring of the milk subsidy and, on the other, the school milk scheme, which is one of the commission's excellent initiatives. the programme is one of the key elements of a healthy diet in the fight against overweight and obesity. the aid intensity should therefore be increased. i want to tell mr. chatzimarkakis that he's open to it, because a year and a half ago i proposed the school fruit program, which mrs. fischer boel has so approved that it's part of the fruit and vegetable reform that's already been done. the school milk and school fruit programmes are therefore very complementary. the quota system has been mentioned by several people. obviously, and i am afraid that the commission will cancel this, but i would ask that the situation with the intervention for maize not happen. let there be a soft landing, let there be a preparation period for the dairy farmers. i fear that increasing the national quota and abolishing criminal law will lead to a devaluation of the quotas in the coming years.
the french suburbs revolt, the bloody terror attacks in london by third-generation muslim youth with yorkshire accents, illustrate the crisis of integration of migrant minorities in western europe. this is also the case in the netherlands, which was one of the most tolerant countries in europe and where interethnic coexistence has also been in crisis. so if we are going to tackle terrorism here in europe at its roots, as many have suggested, we need to rethink the question of the integration of migrant minorities. europe has not faced this question. neither in the european council nor in the european union is there a single soft law document on migrant minorities, or as i proposed and was accepted by the council of europe, on the problem of new minorities, whereas we know that the problem of minorities can only be guaranteed by the acceptance of dual or multiple identities, both for migrant minorities and for indigenous minorities. south tyrol is the best example of dual identity for indigenous minorities, but there are many more examples. europe will not move forward if we do not adopt a document on minority policy.
i would like to congratulate mrs valenciano on her excellent report, which makes very important suggestions. at the same time, i would like to point out a number of shortcomings which are not his fault but the conceptual shortcomings of the european parliament and the european union. in the case of china, for example, we rightly object to human rights violations or restrictions on religious freedom, but we don't mention that 700 million people in rural areas have no social security and no pensions. i ask you, isn't that an important human right? i'm going to keep going. the whole report is just one place on the issue of national minorities in china. the european union should wake up, if it wants stability in the western balkans or anywhere else in the world, it should deal with the issue of minorities, the issue of national minorities, in a fair way. well, the european parliament should go to some seminars in the council of europe building to learn that human rights and minority rights are two completely separate fields! it is unacceptable that the entire report does not mention the issue of national minorities, does not mention the issue of migrant minorities, the issue of migrant minorities in western europe, because i have already spoken in this house today about the crisis of integration of new minorities in france, the united kingdom and the netherlands. so if the european parliament and the european union don't change their minds, they will be unable to deal with international problems, international conflicts, and at the same time, they will have no moral basis for us to criticize china, rightly, while at the same time we can be sweeping around our own house, the unresolved issue of national minorities here in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the slovak national council last week adopted a resolution on the inviolability of the venice decrees. these decrees, based on the principle of collective guilt, deprived hundreds of thousands of hungarians and germans of their property, of the exercise of their civil rights, and often of their personal liberties. it was a shame then, but it is a particular shame that a member state of the european union in the 21st century, 60 years after the events, is putting this on the agenda and reaffirming it. it is no wonder that this is happening in slovakia, where right now they want to legalize and name hlinka, the leader of the semi-fascist slovak state, the father of the slovak nation. where ján slota says that the problem is that they couldn't get rid of the hungarians, and that's what's causing all the problems. i think it is the duty of every democrat - and i say this with respect to mr schulz - to condemn those experiments which seek to re-enact the terrible and shameful events of 60 years ago. thank you, sir.
mr president, this debate also shows that we, the newcomers, can learn from the example of the old members of the union, from the way in which the germans and the french made peace, from the way in which the italians and the austrians agreed on south tyrol, from the way in which the dutch and the germans, the germans and the danes, the germans and the belgians resolved centuries of conflict. i say to everyone in this house that the answer to nationalism is not nationalism, but condemnation of it, first and foremost condemnation and defeat of our own nationalism. the history of the european union over half a century is a history of reconciliation between peoples and groups of peoples, of reconciliation between peoples after the second world war, of self-examination. willy brandt's historic kneeling in warsaw could have led to the german nation once again rising to greatness and honor in europe. the demands of other peoples, of other national minorities, the admission of the mistakes and sins of our past can never, never make a people, a nation smaller, on the contrary, it can only make it truly great. we know that the idea of collective guilt has led to the burning of the world, the extermination and the debasement of peoples. i am sending a message that there is no alternative to the historical reconciliation of the hungarians and slovaks, neither in the slovak majority, nor in the hungarian community in slovakia, nor in hungary, nor in slovakia. thank you for your attention.
i congratulate mrs thomsen on her excellent report and i agree with my colleagues, especially my colleague reino paasilinna, that we cannot be doctrinaires on energy, that we cannot believe that renewable energy in itself is a miracle drug. it will not solve europe's problems by itself, but it is a very important way forward, and there is no dispute between us about this, and mrs thomsen's report makes a good point of it. at the same time, many have suggested that technological development is needed, because especially the new member states, the poorer member states, are sensing that both solar and wind energy, or in my country - hungary has a lot of thermal water - geothermal energy is very expensive to use. i would ask commissioner piebalgs to consider how these technologies could be supported in europe, even by way of a call for proposals. it's not as simple as what we saw recently in tibet with my colleagues in the european parliament, when they said that the roofs of the homes are solar-powered. we didn't want to believe it, but then it turned out that a very simple little plate could heat a jug of water in half an hour -- and i'm talking about more serious technology than that. as far as agriculture is concerned, colleagues, bioenergy is very important, and i agree with riitta myller that the food industry, food, should not be pitted against bioenergy. and for example, when we produce bioethanol, we have to be sensible, because more fossil energy is needed to produce bioethanol than we can save. so i think we need to diversify here.
thank you very much, mr. president. first of all, i'd like to congratulate mrs. thomsen on her excellent report. given the challenges of climate change, increased dependence on fossil fuels and the growing challenges of rural job creation, the european union needs clear, enforceable regulation to be able to operate effectively in the field of renewable energy production, in particular in the area of biomass. we need to create a legal environment for producers that makes renewable energy activities predictable, operational frameworks. even if we have guidelines to increase the share of renewable energy, if the right conditions are not in place, those concerned will not dare to start this new type of production. farmers should not be misled by encouraging the production of bioenergy at eu level, and some national regulations do not create optimal conditions for this. a long-term, well-planned program is needed, for if it is not provided, this new type of production may even seem like a gamble to them. we must guarantee production safety, but we cannot make consumers pay for higher selling prices. producers need incentives, and where appropriate tax incentives, to ensure that the switchover does not make their operations more difficult. we need to provide the right incentives so that biofuel production does not lead to higher food prices, which could derail the whole programme. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporter on a job well done. we must be aware that the ambitious objectives set for the european union, which aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, increase the use of renewable energy sources and improve energy efficiency, can only be achieved if they are implemented at the level of local and regional actors in social and economic life, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. decentralised energy policy, combined with research programmes and a campaign to change consumer habits, can deliver tangible results not only in the use of renewable energy sources but also in employment and territorial development. the local production, conversion and use of renewable energy sources will create new jobs, and the diversification and efficiency of energy supply will increase the economic stability of the region. i would like to emphasise the important role of financial incentives both in connecting renewable energy sources to legacy networks and in commercialising renewable energy. it is in the vital interest of local authorities and regional organisations (the president intervenes and asks the member to speak a little slower) to support the innovation and r & d activities of enterprises effectively. by supporting public-private partnerships, the european union would help public and private actors in society to work together to improve the economic circulation of the regions they are interested in seeing flourish. informing local businesses about development opportunities and assessing the particular needs and talents of the area is essential for success. i suggest that the european union should strictly monitor the fulfilment of the requirements it sets for the member states, since without a framework in the member states compatible with eu rules, initiatives at regional and local level cannot develop. it is the responsibility of member states to create the regulatory environment that not only allows for the increase of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, but also provides all possible economic support and incentives for the development of local and regional development initiatives.
mr president, first of all, i must say that it is very regrettable that the eu's previous target of 12% renewable energy in the eu's energy mix by 2010 will in all likelihood not be met. despite this failure, at the 2007 spring summit, the german presidency set an even more ambitious target for member states to increase the share of renewable energy to 20% by 2020. i think we have to be frank about the fear that, like the previous objectives, the current one is in danger because of the sabotage by the member states. i therefore urge the commission and the member states to reach an agreement as soon as possible on the practical implementation of the 20% renewable energy target. member states have already had to prepare their renewable energy strategy, taking into account cost-effectiveness and sectoral analysis of the possibilities of each country. the targets set out in the renewable energy roadmap, the national specific targets and the mandatory sectoral targets should therefore be followed by detailed implementation plans and penalties for failure to meet those targets. sanctions, because we must not forget that countries that are reluctant to meet common goals risk damaging international confidence in europe's commitment and credibility in the fight against climate change, and this undermines the already fragile chance of a global agreement. europe has a historic responsibility to prove to itself that there is life beyond fossil fuels, that there is competitive technology and secure self-sufficiency.
thank you very much, mr. president. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the interinstitutional conciliation committee on its agreement to open the market for international passenger transport services within the european union in 2010. liberalisation is the right thing to do ... (interruption by the president) open competition is necessary in the market for passenger transport services. this will not only contribute to the implementation of the railway reform, but will also create a competitive environment from which consumers themselves will benefit. however, we cannot simply force national companies to compete in the free market, since railway companies in several member states are in a difficult financial situation. however, their infrastructure is often extremely low. we must therefore support the developments and give them time to become competitive and thus to take their place in the passenger race. in addition to liberalisation, it is at least as important to increase passenger confidence in rail services by improving, extending and internationalising passenger rights. the new rules will require service providers to take on greater responsibility. the harmonisation of eu law on the rights and obligations of passengers and service providers, information, responsibility for passengers and their baggage, compensation, the management of delays and the regulation of travel conditions for persons with reduced mobility all contribute to safety and, at the same time, to the reputation of service providers. this is an ambitious objective, but it is absolutely necessary to facilitate the development of the european high-speed rail network and the related cross-border operations. it also increases confidence in domestic passenger transport. improving the efficiency and quality of rail networks and services is indeed a key issue not only for the development of a sustainable transport sector but also for congestion and air pollution. of course, in addition to the new regulatory package, we must also ensure the proper transposition of the directive into national law in order to improve quality. in view of all this, the implementation report due in 2012 and the annual reports of the companies will be of paramount importance. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work and for the fruitful debate which has allowed us to finally vote on this matter today and tomorrow. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. 160 years ago, in 1846, the first hungarian railway line was opened, between what was then pest and vác. the first hungarian railway was built two years before the 1848 civil revolution, and it was the same people who were behind both. hardly by accident. the railroad helped to bring civilization, economic development, the collapse of feudal barriers, and the birth of a unified nation. in the second half of the 20th century, motorization also pushed railway development into the background in hungary. but fortunately, it was a temporary setback. the hungarian railway is currently in a bad state, so it is important that we use community resources for its development. the construction of international transit routes is clearly a priority. the importance of the suburban railway also increased. every day, at least half a million people come to budapest to work or study. permanent traffic jams can only be solved by the introduction of a collection fee and the intensive development of the suburban railway. liberalisation is welcome if it does not jeopardise the jobs of railway workers and the safety of railway operations. it is also important that passengers' rights are protected by strong safeguards. i hope that in the new system, the hungarian railway, with the cooperation of the state, the union and private capital, can be as modern as it was at the beginning, in the era of the great reforms.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. thank you for your time, mr president. the committee on budgets supports the proposal in principle. may i personally congratulate the reporter? it is a very difficult task in all circumstances to get the producers in a sector to reduce their production. we are not considered to be particularly good in the eyes of the european citizens if we allocate subsidies and money to such things. however, if such intervention becomes necessary, and it has no greater impact on the union's overall budget than it has so far, it is appropriate to make it more targeted and to provide some compensation and support to those who actually intervene on the production side, as is the case here. however, the very real problem is that in some cases countries have already given up certain quotas and have subsequently changed the rules. the report makes proposals to deal with this and i propose that parliament should support it in this form. thank you for your kind attention.
on behalf of the pse group. dear mrs fischer boel, i find the report by katerina batzelli and the opinion by lászló surján to be both professionally sound and politically very correct. it is important to restore market balance and we are still a long way from achieving market balance for european sugar and beet production by 2010. i do not envy the commission or parliament, because it is not easy to bring order and balance to a system that is distorted, overcomplicated and oversubsidised, since this sector was the sweet child of the cap compared to other stepchild sectors. i totally agree with you about the counterbalance. if we implement the additional 10% reduction, there will still be 2.1 million tons of surplus in the system, and if we cannot manage this by 2010, then another 14% reduction is needed. i think it is unfair and i ask the commission and the commission to consider that the countries - italy, portugal, finland - which have cut a lot also have to continue to cut by 10%. that's not fair. i also support the idea of better protecting the interests of small and medium-sized farmers, because they are at an information disadvantage compared to the multinationals in the order of arrival. in hungary, one in five factories has gone out of business. the best sugar factory was gone, but neither the factory nor the producers were in trouble, it was only the workers' compensation, the compensation of the sugar factory workers, that was not adequately regulated by the previous regulation. finally, i think it is very important that no restructuring levy should be paid to the factories in the event of a reduction in quotas. there's a request. i ask mrs fischer boel to do this, because it would help to reduce further, to restore the market balance. it would therefore be very important to help small and medium-sized farmers once again, because this is socially very important for european sugar beet producers. thank you for your attention.
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear colleagues, unfortunately, the restructuring of the sugar market did not produce the expected results. the modification of the restructuring should take into account that some member states have already surrendered a significant part of their quotas. hungary has 27% of the quota, while the european union has an average of only 10,5%. i therefore support the specific production rate of each member state for the final reduction of the quota. it would be wrong to require all the member states of the european union to reduce production at the same time, since the production characteristics are different in each country. in addition, the amendment should not adversely affect member states which have already fulfilled the quota reduction to a greater extent than the average. that is why i am opposed to the merging of the quotas for carrot sugar and isoglucose in the calculation of the ratio of the surrendered quota to the starting quota. the full amount of the restructuring aid should also be paid even if the plants are not dismantled but converted to alternative uses, such as biomass or bioethanol. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. in its current review of the sugar reform, the european commission is asking european farmers and the european sugar industry to make another meaningless sacrifice in order to restore the balance of the sugar market. in my opinion on behalf of the committee on international trade for the european parliament's report, i pointed out at the time that the desired balance in the european sugar market will not be achieved until legislation provides for effective import protection. in its report, the european parliament also made proposals to the european commission and the council of agriculture ministers to restrict sugar imports from third countries. these were not finally incorporated by the legislator into the final legislation. i agree with the amendment to the present proposal that no further reductions should be made in member states which have surrendered 20% or more of their quotas. this would be fair and equitable towards member states that have already made a significant effort to implement the sugar reform. however, i believe it is important to make the sugar sector more competitive in the context of the sugar reform review. to this end, i tabled my amendment which, depending on the member state's decision, would allow smaller, less competitive producers to first give back their beet transport rights. this is a significant benefit for smaller, less well-informed producers, but it also helps the european sugar sector to become more competitive internationally.
in writing. – consumer safety raises serious concerns among our citizens when threats can be identified endangering the most vulnerable ones, namely: our children. we ought therefore to address rapidly and transparently these concerns as there cannot be compromises when consumer safety is at stake. the european union should indeed ensure thoroughly the respect of its high standards when importing goods from countries with lesser quality production standards like china. in this respect, the role of rapex, the system for the rapid exchange of information on dangerous non-food consumer products (including dangerous toys), is of the utmost importance as the flow of imports from countries like china is enormous. we thus need detailed and regular reporting and to provide our partners with the necessary consumer safety requirements so that they can effectively track down potentially dangerous products. consumers’ trust is essential, we therefore have to further focus on prevention, rapid reaction mechanisms and the effective enforcement of the union’s standards requirements.
mr president, according to legend, the scientists in los alamos who developed the atomic bomb in the manhattan project in the us during the second world war spoke hungarian among themselves. they turned to english only in the presence of robert oppenheimer. indeed, edward teller, e. p. wigner and leo szilard were born in hungary and they studied in budapest. we hungarians belong to a relatively small nation, but we are proud to have 50 nobel prize winners, mostly in the natural sciences. as our language is isolated, many talented young hungarians attracted by the natural sciences seek to carry out activities where there are no linguistic barriers. our scientists and young researchers, mainly in mathematics, physics, chemistry and in the life sciences, are very respected all over the world. that is why my country, my compatriots and i are pleased to offer budapest as a seat of the governing board and a centre of the european institute of technology (eit). of course, i urge that the decision on the seat should be taken as soon as possible. as a new member state, without the seat of any eu institutions, on the one hand, and with extremely rich experiences in natural sciences, on the other hand, budapest would serve as an ideal seat of the eit. i fully support mr paasilinna’s report. we do not need a huge bureaucratic organisation, just a network of the knowledge communities. an open and transparent selection procedure on a competitiveness basis for such communities is also of high importance. university research centres and enterprises should cooperate and we have to do our best to involve business in the work of the eit. making the eit visible by labelling the qualifications added through such knowledge communities is likely to bring further added value. as regards financing, i do not support the idea of financing the eit from the common agricultural policy fund, as nobody can foresee the next year’s harvest in agriculture.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr saryusz-wolski on an excellent report and on a very important current issue, and thank him for his cooperation, for his cooperation and for his willingness to compromise. energy security is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges facing the european union. today, this is not primarily a technical issue, not a business issue, not even an energy issue, but a fundamentally strategic issue. the european union as a whole currently imports 50% of its energy from outside the union. experts estimate that by 2030, 70% of its energy needs will be imported. this means that energy dependence is very high and many member states are already much more dependent on external suppliers and many of the new member states are dependent on a few single suppliers. from a supplier who increasingly uses energy as a tool for political gain. sometimes it wants to punish the member states, sometimes it wants to divide them. i'm talking about russia, my fellow members. a common energy policy is urgently needed today. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. it is essential to diversify sources and transport routes, as these are unstable areas, both in terms of energy sources and transport routes, or are largely unstable areas that also threaten security of supply. the report proposes the appointment of a chief energy officer, which is not supported by alde. we fear that this will lead to a debate on competences, we fear that the european parliament's powers of control will be curtailed and we fear that it will not have real added value. we also think it is very important that the report stresses the importance of energy projects, and here too nabucco stands out as the european union's major joint energy project, which can be the first step towards a genuine common foreign policy. it is of particular merit for this report and for mr saryusz-wolski to draw attention to the concerns about the nord stream pipeline. these are partly environmental concerns, but they are at least as much political concerns, and this pipeline can only be realized if we find a solution to all these concerns that is reassuring and we get a reassuring answer. the energy charter treaty is particularly important because it is the basis for european energy cooperation and russia must accept it. thank you, sir.
in writing. the report towards a common european external energy policy makes the important point that europe's energy supply is increasingly dependent on unstable and undemocratic countries. the increasingly clear dependency is compounded by the fact that energy is increasingly being used as a tool for political pressure. these developments make it urgent to create a common european energy policy based on solidarity. the major european energy projects can be the practical implementation of the common policy. the eu has therefore recently appointed a coordinator to lead the most important such project, nabucco. this, coupled with the reluctance of the previously reluctant hungarian government to support the construction of the pipeline, could mean that the gas pipeline linking european consumers to caspian resources could become a symbol of a successful common energy policy rather than a symbol of uncertainty. the nabucco pipeline, which diversifies both sources and transport routes, can prove within a few years that joint action means increased security of supply and affordable prices for consumers. this is in the interest of all member states, but is particularly important for hungary, which currently relies exclusively on russian gas.
house of honor! the shortcomings of european immigration policy, the difficulties of joint action so far, are now undermining the social support for our common values, such as the free movement of citizens within the union. we have opened our internal borders, but we don't yet have a common immigration policy. this is completely absurd. and european citizens see open borders within the union as leading to uncontrolled immigration. if we want to preserve the peace of our societies and the support of citizens for free movement, we need a stronger and stronger europe on immigration. we must not forget that citizens of the new member states still face serious restrictions in the area of immigration policy, even though they are european citizens. the european people's party believes that a correct and transparent common european immigration policy requires: first, solidarity between the member states, which does not allow for unilateral decisions affecting everyone, such as those taken by the spanish government, because of the open borders. second, human dignity must be the guiding principle. thirdly, we must take a firm stand against illegal immigration. a socialist colleague of mine just said that immigration is not a crime. but, ladies and gentlemen, breaking european rules and the rules of the member states is actually committing a crime, and that is why we are talking about illegal immigration. the eu's external borders are a key element in the fight against illegal immigration. fourth, we need to make the rules for illegal immigration, or more precisely, excuse me, the rules for legal immigration, more transparent and stronger, taking into account the kind of workforce our countries need. and fifth, immigration policy should not start at our borders. it's shocking that while the european union is one of the largest aid agencies in the world, we still set very few conditions for the countries that receive aid in terms of corruption, human rights and democracy. this must be stopped, and these conditions must be imposed on the recipient countries. ceterum censeo, europe needs a stronger immigration policy.
thank you, mr president. europe needs a common immigration policy. from tampere to the hague, from claude morales to patrick goebbels, to today's two excellent reports and the commission's communications in between - these are the various stops along the way where we have already concluded that rigor in itself is not worthwhile. our job is to coordinate and separate. the complex phenomena of migration including migrants who arrive for purely economic reasons but cross the border irregularly must be coordinated and asylum seekers, criminally-infiltrated persons and those who may be moved to the illegal territory by the authorities themselves separated. we new member states have been transit countries, but now we are also going to be destination countries, and our responsibility is growing, because we need to replenish our workforce. but not for muscle and grey matter to be exploited, but to replenish our labor force. i therefore welcome the rules that place them in the labour market. as i welcome the plan for a single regulation and the instruments proposed in the single regulation. finally, i would like to reiterate that working with the emitters is the true new human face of the future, where legal and illegal migration is not a lifelong decision, not a flight from home and from home, but a transition period, where the conditions for return must be based on understanding and integration. thank you, mr president.
in writing. - my fellow members of parliament! mr. president, i have to ask you... while 85 percent of unskilled immigrants from the third world live in the european union and only 5 percent go to the united states, only 5 percent of highly skilled immigrants go to a country in the old continent, while more than half of the american economy is absorbed. i am pleased that mrs lilli gruber's report seeks, among other things, to halt and reverse this process. i think we need to find ways to encourage a well-qualified workforce, but also avoid brainwashing developing countries. it would therefore be important to define the concept of 'highly skilled workers' and it would be timely to standardise qualifications within the community, to develop common criteria. i do not support the commission's application of the principle of 'more than one directive' and i agree with the merger of the five directives. less bureaucracy will also make highly skilled workers more attractive. before adopting a directive (s), i would first of all recommend that an impact assessment be carried out, taking into account social aspects. the study could help the eu to save millions of euros by introducing legislation that represents the real interests of citizens. the proposal by mr frattini to introduce a legal entry quota package will, i believe, be appropriate to reduce illegal immigration within the union, but it will also lead to more effective controls for third countries. instead of the eu green card advocated in the report, i believe that the new yellow card will better meet the expectations of legal immigration.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, madam president. i'll speak in hungarian. commissioner, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, i attended last week in lisbon a conference on 'young voices' 'diversity in education' organised by the portuguese presidency. it was a shocking experience to hear children with various physical and mental disabilities talk about their experiences in school. and the common thread in this story was that they all felt that if they could participate in school activities with their healthy peers, they would be judged not on their disability but on their talents and personalities. the integration of children with disabilities into the school environment is essential to their acceptance and integration into society as adults. if children are accustomed at a young age to having disabled peers living with them, and if they are given the same respect and help when needed, there is a good chance that they will be more understanding and empathetic to the disadvantaged in their adult lives. the report before us deals with the integration problems arising from social disparities. i believe that, by analogy with the example i have just given, it is important for socially disadvantaged children to participate in the various stages of education in an inclusive way, together with other children. to accomplish all of this, two things must happen. one of the technological advances is access. in this respect, the member states of central and eastern europe are lagging far behind, where schools, their surroundings, transport facilities, or if you like hospitals, other institutions, public institutions are inaccessible for wheelchair users, for example. on the other hand, and this will take more time, a change of attitude is needed from decision-makers to accept that inclusive education is the first important phase of the process leading to social inclusion and integration. finally, let me remind you that sport is also an important means of education and social equalization, because in sport social or social differences disappear, only talent, willpower and diligence count. school physical education and sport play a major role in reinforcing important social values such as solidarity and respect for each other's dignity. that is why i think it is important that when the house of lords is talking about the quality, efficiency and fairness of education and training, there should be a reference to the importance of physical education, its quality, efficiency and fairness. inclusive education should also play a significant role in this area. congratulations to the reporter, thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr president. if 60% of those surveyed feel that they are discriminated against in some way, this is a warning to the member states and a warning to europe. ethnic and racial discrimination is alive and well and i fear it will be long-lived, as europe becomes more colourful, ethnic differences become more visible and countries that consider themselves as one nation become more culturally colourful. mrs buitenweg's excellent report is an opportunity for evaluation and reflection. the commission has today promised to move forward, because if several countries are not transposing the directive properly, then there is a need for warning and there is a need for help. almost all my colleagues in the house have told me that if citizens don't know their right to protection, they won't be able to live with it. racial and ethnic discrimination also poses problems in a broader sense, since belonging to an ethnic minority is primarily a matter of assumption of identity. we in east central europe have not had a good experience with the willingness to give data, and we get to the point where a gypsy is who his environment considers him to be, and it's mostly a question of lifestyle, not true racial identity. the fra will be able to do a lot to improve the situation. two further comments: the implementation of the directive can do a great deal to prevent the spread of roma in europe. and the second is that with the new member states, new ethnic blocs have appeared on the historical map of europe. the 20th century, a sad legacy of two world wars, that the contradictions are still alive, the wounds are not healed. we are all responsible. thank you, mr president.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague kathalijne buitenweg on her report and draw attention to some important issues. legal awareness among european citizens is quite low, and the relevant legislation and legal protection structure are the victims of discrimination, so that ethnic minorities - especially roma - have almost no knowledge of it. this is why relatively few discrimination cases are brought in the european union, and the low fines imposed are not serious, especially when compared to similar cases in the united states. it would be the responsibility and duty of the member states to inform and educate the public so that citizens can know their rights and opportunities as widely as possible. the equality bodies are far from the citizens, and to a small extent operate on paper, without the active participation of those concerned. another problem is that these bodies are forced to operate in a strong financial, infrastructural, staffing and political dependence on the governments of the member states. an effective system of accountability and monitoring at european level and regular annual reports would be needed to monitor the independent functioning of equality bodies.
in writing. i consider it important for the purpose of ensuring gender equality to have comprehensive, regular and objective information including harmonised community statistics as broad and up-to-date as possible. i therefore attach particular importance to the annual reports in which the commission reports on the situation of women and men. the community has done much to broaden the legal basis for equal opportunities, but whether this has been achieved in practice is another matter. the annual report provides part of the answer. i would like to see regular monitoring of the practical development of the strategic objectives set out in the 2006-10 roadmap, an examination of the practical implementation of legislation in the member states, the integration of the gender mainstreaming principle into community policies, and an overview of the gender impact of the different projects. since the future of the european union is largely determined by how we can bring more women into employment, there is a need to address women's participation in particular, in detail and with emphasis, by promoting their participation in the labour market, by removing barriers to their placement, advancement and the maintenance of work and family life, by examining the situation of disadvantaged women (migrants, ethnic minorities, single parents).
mr. president, i have to go. as the debate has shown, the stakes in the current reform treaty are extremely high, because the union's viability and credibility are at stake. the european citizens do not understand that we have been dealing for years with the constitutional treaty, with institutional problems, which we as the political elite know very well are of great importance in order to reform and renew the union, but at the same time this is a foreign and incomprehensible debate for them. finally, we should deal with the real issues of the european citizens, and i agree with martin schulz that there can be no more failure in the life of the union. it cannot be another failure, because the 2004 enlargement was the first one that was not preceded by a profound reform, not preceded by a deepening. i am not surprised that the british are behaving as they do, but as a new member state i am very unhappy that our polish colleagues are pursuing a policy which unfortunately does not serve european unity. there is no alternative to the reform treaty. the reform treaty is essential if this european parliament is not to be a place for talking and if the commission and the council are to take it seriously. it is also essential to make progress on issues such as the issue of national minorities, which is finally one of europe's big problems - look at the western balkans or look at ukraine, russia - (the end of the sentence is left out). without the reform treaty, we cannot even move in this area. mr president, there is no alternative to the reform treaty: reform treaty or the death of the union! thank you for your attention.
in writing. hungary has always supported the constitutional treaty or the reform treaty in its new form. it is in hungary's interest and the union's objective to preserve peace and our fundamental values and to promote the well-being of the eu's now some 500 million citizens. europe has changed, the world has changed. new security threats must be met with new strategies and new policies. in all areas, europe must prepare for change. i believe that the reform treaty can help to set the course for europe, to define its future framework, its future policy and the europe we want to live and thrive in. i believe it is important that the heads of state or government at the informal summit of 18 and 19 october act responsibly, put aside their historical grievances and take a clear decision on the final text of the reform treaty, which can put the union in the right direction. the aim of the meeting is to adopt the text of the reform treaty, thus strengthening the effectiveness of the enlarged european union, increasing the role of the sole elected body, the european parliament, and the union's external action. the european parliament has given its full support to the constitutional process, to the creation of the reform treaty, and is confident that the 27 member states will ratify it as soon as possible. the representatives of the parliamentary groups will ensure the presence of the parliament at the lisbon meeting, thereby also strengthening the establishment of the reform treaty. it is essential that we have a europe in which 27 member states feel a shared responsibility to take the right steps together towards a better future. the time has come to prove it in lisbon.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i thank my colleague mr romeva for his report, which addresses an important problem. i'm very glad that you, as a colleague, are taking the situation of women so seriously. violence against women is a violation of human rights that prevents women from enjoying their fundamental rights. so this is one of the biggest global obstacles to gender equality. this phenomenon, although to varying degrees, is global and requires worldwide action in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights. states, including in this case mexico, are responsible for respecting and creating the freedom and security of their citizens, and must therefore provide the means to prevent, detect and punish violence against women, even when it occurs within the family. i think it's very positive that mexico has taken legal steps to promote equality between men and women. however, the fight against violence against women cannot be limited to the use of legal instruments alone, since it is a complex phenomenon, which imposes complex treatment, legal, administrative, preventive, advisory, victim support, dialogue and monitoring tasks and obligations on the state concerned. the european union which has repeatedly committed itself to ensuring global equality of opportunity and has identified as one of its main priorities the roadmap for equality of opportunity 2006-2010 issued by the european commission, to which the commissioner referred, the fight against violence against women cannot remain silent in the face of such atrocities. the development of human rights, including gender equality, in partner countries should be a priority in the development of external relations. the report is excellent, i recommend it be accepted.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, i have a question for you. the institutions of the european union are making up for a long-standing failure. if there is anyone who is interested in bringing order to european agriculture and in transparency, it is the european agricultural sector, european agriculture. the rapporteur, mr chatzimarkakis, whom i congratulate, has rightly said that the european union does not have a good image in the eyes of european citizens and that european agriculture is often portrayed as the scapegoat. that is why i am quoting general de gaulle at this late hour, who said that the inevitable must be faced. yes, for those of us who care about the common european agricultural policy, the inevitable, transparency, openness must be paramount. the great problem with the cap - and i agree with my colleague graefe zu baringdorf to the fullest extent - is that the whole of the european cap is a tangled web, hard to see through and unfair in many ways. we both, and i think those in this room, want to preserve the common agricultural policy for the future, but at the same time we want to protect this common agricultural policy. what is the explanation, my friends, for the fact that the cap has its favourite, pampered children, such as cereals, sugar and tobacco, and its absolutely stepchildren, such as fruit and vegetables, wine and grapes, pigs and poultry? this cannot be explained to a european citizen by common sense. nor can a european citizen be reasonably told that a lot of aid does not go to producers, as my colleague graefe zu baringdorf has said, but is instead collected by trade organisations. it has not been done anywhere and it would be good if the commission and the council would finally draw up a report on how much money is going out of the agricultural sector to the non-agricultural sector. it's a lot of money. that's why this report is so important, to make it clear who gets what kind of support, so that the media doesn't give the negative example that in rome, on the sixth floor, there's been a 200-head cattle ranch for years, and hundreds of thousands of italian farmers are doing their jobs honestly. my dear friends, that is why transparency, the sharing of data, is so important, and that is why it must be done in all other areas of the european union, and that is why i support the report by mr chatzimarkakis. thank you very much.
increasing the transparency of the cap is an important community objective and that is why i support the report by my colleague mr chatzimarkakis. but as we come to the common agricultural policy, i would like to draw attention to one of the most important issues in environmentally-conscious farming, the natura 2000 programme. as you know, natura 2000 provides community and national support for those who manage the protected flora and fauna in a way that ensures their conservation. almost 1/5 of the territory of the european union, and 21% of hungary, is covered by this programme. farmers expect this support, since the preservation of natural values requires economic self-restraint on their part. and it's crucial to a sustainable future that we conserve as much of our natural resources as possible. it is therefore important to allocate as much money as possible to support natura 2000 sites. at the time, i was the socialist group's head of the natura 2000 programme. unfortunately, the amount we were pushing for, the 3 billion euros a year, has not been realized since. and we're in the 24th hour if we want to stop the destruction of nature, especially in already overpopulated europe. it would be useful to include in the planned online list the amount of support given to farmers under natura 2000, thus also promoting forward-looking practices. hopefully, this publicity will also encourage green farming and the protection of our unique natural resources. thank you, sir.
in writing. i can support the commission's proposal for a number of reasons. in particular, it will make it easier to identify the beneficiaries of the cap and to compare the level of agricultural payments across eu member states. secondly, it increases the legitimacy of both the eu institutions and the eu policies towards european citizens. thirdly, this initiative will cover not only agricultural expenditure but all sectoral eu expenditure, and thus increase the effectiveness of budgetary control. i agree with the second point in the proposal, which proposes to tighten up the rules on penalties in the event of shortcomings in the member states' control systems. hungary has made great efforts to ensure that its institutional system is designed to operate as efficiently as possible and to meet the commission's requirements. i support the rapporteur's proposal to make it a mandatory requirement to publish data on the internet. the websites of the paying agencies of the member states would be linked to the websites of the commission and websites within a member state would be networked. of course, these data services must comply with the requirements of the european data protection supervisor. it is essential, inter alia, that data subjects are informed in advance of the publication of data, as soon as possible, at the time of data collection.
thank you for your time, mr. president. the very respected commissioner kallas, my dear colleagues. my colleague, mr staes, is right, and i would like to congratulate him once again on his truly self-sacrificing, hard work and on this report. the european union, its institutions including the commission, the court of auditors, olaf, the european parliament and, not least, the committee on budgetary control , have taken the agreement signed with philip morris in 2004 and its aftermath and follow-up as a true success story. the fight against smuggling and fraud has achieved a major success here, not only with traders and consumers, who are the end of the process, but also with a large international manufacturer, who is at the beginning. this agreement covers not only the financial compensation of past losses but also the prevention of future losses. philip morris was made to understand that it was in its interest to develop a common strategy against smugglers and fraud and to provide the financial means to implement it. it is a particular pleasure and a great significance for us, the newly joined countries, that cooperation extends not only to the ten contracting member states but also to new countries particularly vulnerable to smuggling and fraud, thus ensuring, with more or less success, the material and technical conditions for combating smuggling and fraud. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr. president, and congratulations on your award. air travel is growing at a spectacular rate, with traffic tripled in 20 years. this trend is expected to continue, making it urgent to optimise the capacity of european airports. the strategy on capacity, efficiency and safety at european airports prioritises optimising and developing existing capacity, promoting combined transport and reducing environmental impact. the proposal is a complex one which requires a pragmatic approach and dialogue between the professional parties and authorities concerned. it could be a milestone in the development of a single european regulatory framework. in line with the lisbon strategy, european airports play an important role in maintaining the community's economic and social competitiveness and regional development, and will now be able to apply uniform rules across europe, as opposed to previous practice. when optimising capacity, it is important to ensure disabled access to airport facilities, passenger vehicles and aircraft, as this is the only way to ensure equal opportunities in aviation.
in writing. it is well known that the environmental damage of flying, apart from greenhouse gas emissions, is largely caused by take-off and landing and so-called taxiing. these primarily affect the area around airports and the people who live there. they are right to demand that airports reduce their traffic. on the other hand, flying is part of our daily lives, and our whole way of life has changed by making it accessible to low-income people, retirees and students. the european union itself would not work if we could not get from budapest or athens or helsinki to brussels in a matter of hours. the solution is therefore to reorganise airport traffic in an environmentally sound way. we must put an end to the unnecessary long ground rolling of aircraft, the so-called taxiing, the long-distance surveillance of airports. pollution around airports would be greatly reduced if passengers could take the train or subway to the airport instead of millions of cars. therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the railway or metro line is built in parallel with the development of the airports and that a new international airport is not built without a suitable fixed link.
mr. president, i have to go. tomorrow is the anniversary of the hungarian revolution and war of independence of 1956. the debate in this house over the last few years on the nature and losses of hitlerism and stalinism has shown that the more fortunate western half of europe has not lived history in the same way as the 10 newly joined central european states. may 9th doesn't mean the same thing to us. for us, this is not only a liberation, but the beginning of an occupation. three central european events, the struggle against the soviet union and other communist dictatorships of the soviet type, the hungarian revolution of 1956, the prague spring of 1968 and the polish solidarity movement, have nevertheless become part of our common european history. what makes 1956 special is that in no other resistance did a people fight with arms against the world's largest army, the soviet army, and in no other case did they proclaim neutrality. all the goals of democracy, rule of law, freedom for which the heroes of 1956 fought were fulfilled in the change of regime. if we hungarians can be proud of anything in the 20th century, it is our role in the 1956 revolution and german reunification. thank you for your attention.
the chilean delegation of our parliament - thank you, mr president, for the floor - met not only chilean representatives but also environmental organisations in santiago earlier this month. they believe that the environmental principles of eu companies operating in chile are different from those in europe. the legal and moral judgment on this is clear, but unfortunately contradictory. what they're doing is only legally right, but morally harmful. the lack of environmental standards often attracts european capital abroad. such a relocation would be in our best interests. environmental rigour must therefore be promoted not only within the union but also outside it. the union must take the initiative, because in the absence of a global responsibility for future generations, european citizens are already suffering moral and material damage.
mr president, there is disturbing news from slovakia. the director of the danube museum in komárno, csaba fehér, has been threatened with dismissal. among the charges is that he was co-organiser of an exhibition in the european parliament last year. that exhibition documented the sufferings of the hungarian minority under the czechoslovak government after 1945 on the basis of collective guilt. the concept of collective guilt is wholly irreconcilable with the civic norms and human rights that are at the heart of the european union’s democratic underpinnings. slovakia, as a member state of the european union, has accepted those principles in full. so, what the slovak authorities are doing not only flies in the face of human rights normativity, but implicitly criticises the european parliament. slovakia must resolve these contradictions as rapidly as possible.
in writing. – pesticides are among the most dangerous chemicals, as they are designed to kill and they are released deliberately into the environment and onto food. only about 1% of a pesticide actually reaches its target. therefore, when we prepare legislation on the use and on the permitting of pesticides, we have to keep in mind what is in the interests of the different stakeholders. it is in the interests of farmers to have a high harvest and good quality products with low costs. if they can attain this goal with less pesticide, they can save on costs and provide healthier products. it is in the interests of citizens to have safe, cheap products and pesticide-free drinking water. therefore, using less and safer pesticides is in the interests of almost everyone. if we want to achieve tangible pesticide use reduction in europe, we need effective national plans for reduction, focusing on the local circumstances and using local opportunities.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. we've been debating the details of the pesticide package for months now. during this time, we've examined and incorporated many aspects into the text. i think that this is the reason why we have a proposal which, in many respects, is based on compromise and meets the greatest possible number of requirements. but there are some issues that should not be compromised. when human health is at stake, it cannot be overridden by economic interests. this legislation is not about the competitiveness of european agriculture, but about protecting the health of european citizens. we also saw that the current regulations vary greatly from one member state to another. in my country, it's one of the strictest. while here in strasbourg we are debating the 5 or 10 metre guardrails to be erected along the waterfront, in hungary we have been using 50 metres for decades, and even 500 metres in some places. and although our farmers use 15 times less pesticides than in the netherlands, the european intervention stocks were still full of hungarian maize. i would also ask my colleagues to support the introduction of strict cut-off criteria in tomorrow's vote. the compromise text only covers 29 substances out of more than 600! and that's not a huge price to pay for not being on the menu with proven carcinogens and toxic chemicals. if there are differences in voting patterns across national boundaries, we are all the same in this respect. let us vote so that we may then sit down at the table with a clear conscience.
thank you, mr president. my fellow officers. i could start with the joke, "i have good news and bad news to start with". i'll start with the good news: the european union is the flagship of the fight against climate change, and today these 27 countries are doing the most in the world to fight climate change. now the bad news: if the world's thousands of scientists are right, this will be very little. so what do we do? well, the answer is clear: a paradigm shift is needed. the davis report has, in a commendable way, shone a light on some of the important elements of this, but if anyone thinks that if we reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of our growing number of cars to 120 grams or 95 grams, whatever it is, we've solved it, well, they're very wrong. i believe that this report can and should be voted on and that car manufacturers should be pressured to produce more efficient and smaller engines. but we can't stop here. the european union must also make a clear commitment to technological change in transport. research and development and innovation in this field should be encouraged by all means and support for traditional technologies should be abandoned. member states should adopt as soon as possible the best practices in the legal, economic and other incentives for producers and consumers. and speaking of which, i don't think that biofuels, for example, are going to be the salvation solution to our problems, especially not in their current first-generation form. but it seems to be a necessary step towards alternative fuels, like hydrogen, electric propulsion, and many inventions that are not widely used today or that have not yet been born. let us therefore support their promotion in this vote and in future legislation. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you very much for the floor, mr. president. mr. commissioner, my fellow members of the house. the report before us makes no secret of the fact that there are important arguments against conventional energy sources. most of the talk today is about climate change. however, fossil fuels not only contribute to global climate change, but also increase europe's vulnerability to external suppliers. let me give you an example of hungary to prove my point. gas accounts for almost 50% of the energy mix of this resource-poor country, 80% of which comes from a single external source, russia. this results in a degree of vulnerability that may have a significant impact on hungary's international relations system, in addition to its wide-ranging social and economic consequences. at the same time, these and similar data demonstrate that conventional energy sources will play an unavoidable role in europe's energy supply in the coming decades, even as renewables gain ground. to say otherwise would be to bury our heads in the sand. my fellow members of the house of representatives! however, the contradiction between the inevitability of traditional sources and the risks they represent needs to be resolved. i am convinced that the reul report provides a good description of the system of instruments required for this purpose. i agree with the rapporteur that when formulating its policy on conventional energy sources, the european union should focus on three fundamental objectives: increasing efficiency, exploiting the potential of research and development in this context, and reducing dependence on external sources. the nabucco project is the best example of the latter, since the construction of the pipeline would represent a substantial step towards diversification and its implementation is therefore in the community interest. thank you very much, mr. president.
mr. chairman, members of the house of representatives, i congratulate the rapporteur and all the co-rapporteurs. the european parliament has, as a special result of this report, recognized all the doubts and accepted that natural and economic constraints cannot be overcome on an ideological basis. the individual member states of the union today have tried to do so for the last half century, and as we know, without success. hungary gave up the vain political idea of becoming a country of iron and steel in 1956. fortunately, the union did not have to go to such extremes to realise and recognise that in the 21st century, all our knowledge and resources are needed to secure our energy needs. this requires maximum diversification in both resources and technologies. and the number of feet europe's energy supply will be able to stand on in 10 to 20 to 50 years is not a matter of ideology but of science. policies need to demand safety, coordinate resources and increase social acceptance. for this job, i wish all of us the hungarian mining greeting: good luck!
thank you, mr president. what are we talking about? one of the key issues is that the external tax competition we receive from outside the european union allows us to compete in terms of competitiveness and we should not look for scapegoats within the european union, as several of my colleagues have said, capital is leaving the whole union. what do we say yes to in tax policy? we say yes to creating new workforce, that is to say, helping people to work, yes to helping small and medium-sized enterprises, because they help people to stay in their place, strengthen families and also create jobs, and yes to the social policy area that helps the demographic challenge in the european union. say no to what? we say no to overdosing on health and environmental or social policy grounds, rather than responding adequately to the challenges of anti-inflationary policy and competition. the second is that we have to recognize that we have expanded, the european union is very heterogeneous, we expect everyone to have a fiscal policy of their own to keep discipline in public finances, while at the same time we want to minimize resources. if convergence is our main objective, then in indirect taxation, for example, in income taxation, we must not only force those who are around the minimum level to converge, but also those who are in countries with much higher taxation to achieve something, and that is why we have proposed on several occasions that the current thinking of only seeking the minimum taxation should be replaced by some kind of code of conduct and a band-breaking. i would like to say that the common capital or the common tax base would be a very big problem if it led to punishing competitive countries, introducing a minimum level, and i am even afraid of what will happen to the movement of capital when the common tax base is created? will subsidiary profits from new member states, for example, be permanently re-recorded in the profits of the parent company instead of being invested locally? and the fight against fraud is very important, and i wish the commission every success in this. you're on the right track, because whitewashing and crime prevention are the most important things. thank you very much, mr. president.
in writing. – we all ought to agree that the simultaneous existence of 27 national taxation systems seriously hampers the blooming of the full advantages of our single market. moreover, there is indeed a genuine opportunity to reinvigorate the implementation of the lisbon strategy through eu-wide taxation and customs measures that would make the union a more attractive place to invest and work. in extending and deepening more competitive markets, we should use all tools available, including more investment-friendly fiscal and custom policies, in order to boost employment, r&d investments and the development of environmentally friendly technologies. in this respect, we warmly welcome the own-initiative report drawn up by ms wagenknecht, which aims at setting up the necessary fiscal framework to encourage risk and innovative investments in order to achieve the objectives of growth and employment. the advantages of simplifying and harmonising the taxation systems in the union as a whole are obvious as not only it will help reaching the lisbon objectives – through greater tax incentives for investments – but, furthermore, it will help achieve eu market integration by lifting remaining obstacles to the completion of the single market.
in writing. i consider it a great step that the politicians in lisbon, conscious of their responsibilities and putting aside their historical grievances, have reached agreement on a six-year-old treaty which will define the face of europe and set out its effective framework for action. it is also important that the process of ratification by the member states of the document to be signed on 13 december this year should proceed smoothly. it is essential that the european parliament continues to assure its support for the reform treaty and we reiterate the importance of the ratification process to the member states! hungary has always ensured its support for the constitutional process and hoped that the member states would sooner or later find a common voice and be able to successfully advance the process of european integration. as a member of the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs, i consider it important to stress that the adopted document can successfully contribute to a more effective and more effective eu foreign policy on the world diplomatic stage. but the reform treaty is expected to change not only foreign policy but also many other issues that determine the union's effectiveness, thus opening the way for the new european parliament and european commission to start their work on a more efficient, transparent and democratic basis in 2009. the common success depended first and foremost on the political will to act together, and now we are happy with the agreement, but in order for the process to be successful, we cannot stop, we must continue to work together, so that the ratification process can be successful.
as a representative of the mdf, i voted in favour of both legislative proposals, which provide for the use of more stringent and controlled pesticides. i believe these laws will be milestones on the road to safer and healthier food production. we need to eliminate the health hazards and use fewer pesticides overall. in hungary, for example, we use 15 times less chemicals than in the netherlands, but the intervention stocks of the union were still being spoiled by hungarian maize. so we can and should move in the direction of sustainably produced fruits, vegetables and other foods. member states wishing to apply stricter legislation should be allowed to do so. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. officer, please. the most important item in the 2008 budget is cohesion policy. the regions lagging behind are in virtually every member state, so we all have a stake in this issue. moreover, the unbundling is also in the interest of those who are not the beneficiaries but the funders of this process. we therefore reject any idea that would suggest a substantial cut in cohesion policy payments of some half a billion. i see that parliament is confident that the new member states will be able to cope and spend all the aid they can get. and that's something we all have to do in our own countries. but it is not just this issue that we are debating, and will continue to debate with the council, but we can also say with certainty that we have handled the money of european citizens well, that is, with great responsibility. the 2008 budget was well below the limits set in the financial framework. it is therefore regrettable that there are still bitter debates about the budget of the galileo programme or the european institute of technology. both would be beneficial to the development of the union, so why should they be impeded? i thank the european commission and the rapporteurs for their work and ask parliament to support the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets and thus give a strong support to the negotiations before the second reading. finally, mr president, allow me to welcome the members of parliament here on the occasion of my country's national day. it's about the hungarian revolution of 1956. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporter, mr. virrankoski, who did an excellent job. secondly, i would point out that the european union wants to be a global player, and it is ridiculous that it wants to spend less on foreign policy than on administrative expenditure. secondly, it is unacceptable that the expenditure on the priority enlargement chapter is also decreasing in nominal terms compared to 2007 and thirdly, it is unacceptable that external expenditure is increasing less - by only 1.5% - than general expenditure, which is increasing by 2%. this means that the european union does not provide sufficient resources to meet the tasks it has set itself and does not provide sufficient resources to meet its foreign policy priorities. there is no adequate funding for the kosovo mission, nor for aid to the palestinian people, and he fears that next year the budget will have to be amended several times again, because the budget does not provide funds for this. the imbalance between the eastern and southern dimensions of neighbourhood policy has been a recurring problem for many years. the countries of the south have received three times as much per capita as the countries of the east, and that is unacceptable. finally, i believe it is important that the cooperation between the european parliament and the council on the cfsp chapter be resolved. there is no prior consultation, no political dialogue, and in the meantime i welcome the fact that we have set aside 40 million euros for the cfsp. thank you very much.
this debate is a perfect example of how different our opinions are. i agree with mr stevenson that this price increase will only bring a small increase in income to the producers, which will be mainly taken away by trade, the supermarkets and the speculators. another problem is that grain farmers make a lot of money on this deal, and livestock farmers lose a lot. so it cannot be that there are different sectors which are the sweet and the stepmotherly children of the common agricultural policy, the stepmotherly children are even more stepmotherly because of the price increases, and the rich are even richer. i agree with mr graefe that it's good that prices are rising, but who is the price rising for? these contradictions are growing and unfortunately, unfortunately, the distortions of the common agricultural policy are deepening these distortions, are intensifying them. that is why the cap must be fundamentally rethinked, because any intervention is just cosmetic. as long as the livestock farmers, the wine-growers, the fruit-growers, the pig-breeders and the poultry-breeders are still in the stepchildren, there will be no common agricultural policy. thank you, sir.
mr president, as has already been mentioned, every year 65 000 people die in europe from smoking-related illnesses. the number of victims of passive smoking is also tragically high – about 80 000 european citizens die every year owing to other people’s bad habit. that is why a total ban on smoking in the workplace and other public places should be welcomed. our long fight against smoking has not been unsuccessful. ten or twenty years ago, it was natural for people to smoke almost everywhere: during meetings and even on buses in some countries. now it is almost an aggression to light a cigarette at social events. the success of the anti-smoking campaign shows us that multinational companies, such as the tobacco companies, are not unbeatable. if we have clear goals for the environment and health and we can mobilise society, ngos and politicians – not forgetting good lawyers – then we can reach our goals, step by step. this report is taking the right steps in the right direction. we should of course mention that it is smoking we are fighting, not smokers.
in writing. smoking is a major public health problem, claiming hundreds of thousands of lives each year, including non-smokers. the global scale of the problem requires complex, committed and effective action by member states, and even stricter legislation than before. this is necessary to protect the health of european citizens. it is clear that the ultimate goal of a smoke-free europe is a long way off, requires a lot of effort and commitment, and therefore requires a step-by-step approach. the eu is also working to improve the quality of life for people with disabilities, and to promote the development of a comprehensive approach to health and safety at work. a comprehensive community strategy for tobacco control and cessation based on appropriate studies and best practice is a necessary and important foundation for the success of tobacco control. the design of effective regulatory measures, both prevention and information, should play a key role in this.
in writing. recognising the knowledge, skills and abilities of citizens is essential for the competitiveness and social cohesion of the eu and for the mobility of individual citizens. participation in and access to lifelong learning for all, including those with disabilities, should be promoted and improved at both national and community level. young people, adults, immigrants and manual workers who have never been formally recognised in europe and who are acquiring their qualifications through informal means should be encouraged to participate in learning programmes, thus avoiding the social and labour market exclusion of these groups. in this context, the creation of a common reference framework will play an important role as a means of reconciling the different qualification systems and their levels in general education, higher education and vocational education. this will increase the transparency, comparability and portability of citizens' qualifications across member states. the framework is intended to integrate and harmonise national qualifications systems, ensure non-discrimination, increase access to qualifications and interconnection with the labour market and civil society. i support the introduction of information measures and social dialogue to end segregation in education. i also think it is important to recognise the informal learning acquired by groups of workers in order to make it easier for them to change jobs. the european union must become a knowledge-based society, prepared to face the challenges of globalisation. in such a society, citizens in all member states will have to adapt to the demands of a competitive labour market, and learning will therefore be a basic requirement for all age groups.
in writing. in the context of the eu-russia summit, i would like to draw attention to a number of energy policy-related factors. it is no exaggeration to say that the russian energy industry is not governed by the rules of the market economy today. russia does not consider itself to be a party to the principles of protection of foreign investments and non-discriminatory trade. while it seeks access to the european energy sector, it does not open its own market to foreigners. in the energy-related affairs of recent years, it should also be noted that moscow has used its energy exports in many cases to exert political pressure. this is accompanied by the desire to divide the eu member states. in formulating a common european energy policy, we must take into account the fact that russia is no longer able to cover its natural gas consumption and exports from its own resources. so it gets much of its food from central asia. the decline in stocks may result in moscow fulfilling orders on a more political basis in the future. we believe it is important that the principle of free competition should also apply to the eu's external relations. we must make it clear that we do not accept monopolistic tendencies towards energy sources. ensuring a stable energy supply is a fundamental community interest. we are convinced that only a united european union, based on the principle of community solidarity, can successfully counter the pressure that is increasingly being exerted on the member states. europe's energy supply is unthinkable today without russia. at the same time, this special relationship can only be based on reciprocity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, all in this house would agree that serbia has a european future and that this european future is highly desirable, both for serbia and for europe. the question then is how to get there from here. the heart of the problem is that, whilst serbia certainly has some of the characteristics of a democracy, it is still some way from having a stable, democratic infrastructure. the legacy of communism and of the wars following the disintegration of yugoslavia has left deep marks on serbian society, hence the operation of trustworthy, neutral institutions is that much more difficult to sustain. the weakness of the rule of law, the corruption and nepotism, and the worryingly high level of casual violence are all indicators of a society that has to undergo a significant shift before democracy can be regarded as complying with the copenhagen criteria. perhaps the most toxic part of the legacy is the way in which nationalism retains its attractiveness for a politically important part of society, a part of the elite included. for the protagonists of serbian ethnic nationalism, serbian citizenship is understood as coextensive with the serbian nation. this bears very hard on the non-serb part of serbian society. in this area, the country’s political elite has a great deal of work to do. only serbia – the country’s political elites and serbian society – can make the necessary shift towards democracy, human rights and citizenship. the conclusions of this thoughtful report, on the other hand, offer cogent indications as to how that transformation can be made and how serbia can once again take its place in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, minister and commissioner, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kacin, on his constructive and balanced report. the european union committed itself to the integration of serbia in 2003 because it is convinced that serbia is an important factor for stability in the region and that serbia's future lies in europe. from now on, the speed of integration is entirely up to serbia. full cooperation with the international criminal court in the hague is an important precondition. progress is being made, two of the six most wanted war criminals have been handed over, but the most serious war criminals mladić and karadzić are still not found, further efforts are needed. the biggest test of strength for serbia and for europe is the settlement of kosovo's status. the current situation is also one of the most serious obstacles to stability in the region and to the integration of serbia. we expect constructive action from serbia to resolve the situation quickly and in a reassuring manner. there's been progress on minority rights, a decrease in violent attacks, and new rights for minorities in the constitution. but this progress is far from sufficient, there is no regulation of national councils and no legislation to guarantee the self-determination of minorities. serbia also has european responsibilities, as the constitutional court is virtually non-functioning, the judiciary is slow and subject to political influence, and corruption and organised crime permeate all areas of the economy and social life. if serbia is to truly integrate, it needs to make further efforts in these areas which are very important. europe will give you everything you need to succeed in your task, but the task must be fulfilled by serbia. we must emphasise that it is the responsibility and duty of our serbian friends to do everything possible to ensure the successful integration of their country. thank you, mr president.
thank you, mr president. mr. kacin's report is a great, professional piece of work, and it seems he was born in the region and knows it. my remarks: 1. the value principle. it is very important that no one enters the european union with a legacy where not only collective crimes and mass murders go unpunished, but the dead are not even remembered. since antigone, it's been a basic human right, a right to human dignity. and where we don't get that far, and we don't ask for it, let's not be surprised if radicals walk the streets, or get stronger, or neo-fascists march in new areas. we must put an end to this, because if we do not, we will have to worry not only about serbia but also about europe. secondly, i think we should at least take responsibility for the report, so that we do not add amendments or censor the title or the points of our own decisions, but quote them accurately, and the same is true of what has already been spatially classified, very correctly, in mr kacin's report, which came out of the committee, because it is impossible to understand what we want with meaningless additions. thirdly, we must provide assistance to serbia, not just talk about it, we need to have visa facilitation followed by full visa abolition so that the average serb can come to europe at any time, and until we do that, there is no point in sounding the alarm about european prospects, because we lack the first step to take the third. and the same applies to cefta membership, the implementation of the association or the continued operation of the wto. and my final comment is that we need a bottom-up society that also demands proportionality, both for the representation of national minorities in public administration, which is very important, and for the provision of adequate forms of autonomy, because the lack of this means a lack of trust, and without this we cannot really make progress in the new, desired balkan cooperation. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. mr kacin's report is a turning point in the european parliament's approach. for a very long time, every resolution on kosovo was unilaterally rewarding the albanians and punishing the serbs. finally, an authentic, objective picture of serbia, and this is important because serbia's role as a punching bag, a scapegoat, must be ended. but that does not mean that the serbs will not have to face the crimes of the milosevic era, just as the albanians in kosovo and all peoples will have to face their historical guilt. it is very right that we are bringing serbia closer to the european union, i agree that visa facilitation is not enough, that visa-free travel for serbian citizens should be granted as soon as possible, and that it is at least as important to speed up the process of gaining candidate status. there is kosovo, which is a huge threat, according to the intelligence assessment of the council of europe, 100,000 refugees are expected from kosovo, serbian refugees, and ultimately to vojvodina, this must be handled by the european union. thank you for mr. kacin's amendments, which give an objective picture of the interethnic processes in recent times, of the atrocities that still exist, of the need to regulate the status of national councils, the need for proportional representation of minorities in the police and judiciary, and the need to keep minority broadcasting and its funding in the radio. i would like to congratulate mr kacin on this, which is an important step towards bringing serbia closer to the union. thank you for your attention.
thank you for speaking, madam president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! i welcome the report, the version of which the commission has adopted, and i consider it to be particularly good and balanced. serbia's prospects for the european union are particularly important for hungary. it is in our fundamental interest that our neighbours should be admitted as soon as possible to this community, which is the only alternative to reconciliation, in the face of distortions between nations, war, discrimination and humiliation of people because they may have different mother tongues or traditions. it is clear that we are not indifferent to the fate of the serbian hungarian national community, and we have tried to keep the question of vojvodina on the european agenda. it is very important and i am glad that it is included in the report, to draw attention to the need to preserve the multiethnic character of the vojvodina, which has developed over the centuries, and which is based on the coexistence of different peoples, a coexistence that is not based on silence, on humiliation, but on genuine equality of rights and opportunities. unfortunately, that's not a part of everyday reality. i consider it particularly important to preserve the ethnic proportions and the valuable character of the region, and i believe that the settlement of serbian refugees threatens to preserve this delicate balance and could contribute to the intensification of inter-ethnic conflicts, of which we have seen many, very ugly examples in recent times, such as the fact that the fate of young people of hungarian nationality who have been disproportionately severely punished in the case of clear ethnic discrimination in temerin is still unresolved. in summary, the european union is needed in the balkans, because the spirit of the union, its principles and its institutional system, but also its consistency, and i emphasise, its coherence, can be a living thing. thank you very much.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking mr diamandouros and ms wallström for their presentations and ms sbarbati for her excellent report. the lisbon treaty just agreed opens the door to the european union’s exit from a long-standing phase whereby its ability to function effectively on behalf of its citizens has been held back. we have a long-needed institutional system that works more effectively, but it also opens the door to so much more. i welcome the solemn proclamation of the charter of the presidents of the institutions that will be made on 12 december. the inclusion of the charter of fundamental rights as part of the legal order in the european union will allow for the union to begin to work on more effective, transparent and democratic foundations. european citizens expect, and will continue to expect, that the union’s institutions will act in accordance with its basic principles: with the charter, and with efficiency, effectiveness and openness. the european ombudsman is one vital part of the democratic structure and functioning of the union. the largest proportion of the ombudsman’s enquiries concern lack of transparency. this is an area of our activities that we must improve if we are to become more credible in the eyes of the citizens. i am delighted with the work of the ombudsman, as explained in his annual report and in his speech. he took a number of important decisions during 2006, including, not least, on the choice of the languages used in the websites of the european presidencies of the council, on inaccurate and misleading information contained in leaflets, posters and video presentations on air passenger rights produced by the commission, and on access to the audit report of the european investment bank. it is important that we support the work of the ombudsman, as well as the work of the committee on petitions, as it is through handling complaints and petitions on eu matters from citizens that we can find out what is not working well at european level and take corrective measures. cases being brought to the ombudsman and the committee on petitions are of increasing complexity and therefore require a greater investment of resources by the institutions, in order that the citizens’ concerns are properly addressed. in this context i would like to remind members of paragraph 2 of ms sbarbati’s report: ‘calls for all european institutions and bodies to be given the necessary budgetary and human resources to ensure that citizens receive prompt and substantive responses to their enquiries, complaints and petitions’. there will be no better way of putting the charter of fundamental rights into practice than taking this on board, and i call on all the institutions and bodies to give priority to the interests of the citizens in this respect.
mr president, in amendment 951, the german text is the correct one. some of the other languages contain mistakes, so please follow the german text.
thank you very much, mr. president. of course, there is no perfect budget, but we must strive to spend public money fairly and in a future-oriented way. unfortunately, a large part of the eu budget is still spent on preserving the status quo. that's why it's important that all the money goes into the future, into research, development, science. the funding of the european institute of technology is currently unresolved, as the commission has made a bridging proposal for a maximum of eur 308 million. with its excellent research results and scientific expertise in the fight against climate change, budapest would be an ideal location for the european institute of technology. that's why i'm pushing for a funding solution. a modest, frugal, intellectual institution, we hungarians offer a suitable location for the more demanding.
last week, the hungarian academy of sciences, in cooperation with the eu, unesco and the international council for science, hosted the third world science forum. scientists and decision-makers from more than 60 countries attended the world science forum, including four heads of state, the secretary-general of unesco and the commissioner for the environment [...] (interruption: i can't continue, mr president!) just as the president of hungary, lászló sólyom, proposed the creation of a new world environmental organization in his speech, the heads of the united nations environment programme announced the creation of a new international organization. the world forum proposed that parliaments in as many countries as possible establish the institution of the commissioner for future generations. the main message of the world forum is that science and politics must work together to curb climate change and environmental degradation. according to the participants, the 'scientific davos' was born in budapest, i.e. what davos means for the economy, budapest can mean for science. the next step in the series of events is 2009, when the world's ministers of science, education and economy are expected to visit budapest as the main event of the year of creativity. i ask the commission and you to support the event and the idea behind it, which is that we must stand together for the environment and sustainability for our own sake and for the sake of future generations. thank you for your time, mr. president.
mr. president, ladies and gentlemen of the house. i would like to speak about the situation of romanian roma in italy. i find it unfortunate that such a tragedy should have led me to the italian decision, which everyone interpreted differently, to highlight the real problem that i have been representing in every forum since i can remember. in this room, too, in the discussions on the accession of romania and bulgaria, i have always mentioned the lack of a roma integration policy. if minority groups leave their homeland in the hope of a better life, that is also a problem. but there is also a huge problem of discrimination within the borders of the european union and the forced displacement of certain groups, minority groups, from their home countries. it is time to put in place a comprehensive strategy, as we did in our resolution of april 2005 - voted by this parliament - in which we asked the commission to urge the member states to put in place a strategy. romania, bulgaria, hungary and slovakia have already developed the strategy as part of the programme entitled 'decade of roma integration'. if the 2005 guidelines were not enough for the commission and the other member states, the parliament's decision must be re-introduced. not only is there a need for a comprehensive roma strategy, but given the urgency and seriousness of the strategy, a so-called eu fund should be set up as soon as possible to ensure the full integration of roma, in particular to end segregation in education.
the vast majority of the european parliament is rightly alarmed by the events in italy, but there is a very great hypocrisy in this, ladies and gentlemen. it's as if we didn't know that there are 3-4 million roma in romania living in extremely difficult conditions, as if we didn't know that there are 12 million roma in europe. this shows that the european union has no minority policy, neither for indigenous minorities, nor for roma, nor for migrant minorities. i am glad and proud that the european socialists have condemned the principle of collective guilt in italy, and i would have been glad if my own group had done the same with regard to the collective stigmatisation of the hungarian minority in slovakia. i would like to ask you, mr president, to ensure that the european parliament is finally responsible for the minority issue in this parliamentary term, that the droi finally becomes a regular committee, and that monitoring is finally established, because the president is a true 'minderheitsfreundlicher' präsident. thank you, sir.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, i would like to thank you for your work. let me first of all thank you for the many comments, suggestions for improvement, that have been sent to my report. my goal was to talk about the consolidation of the role of school physical education and sports in public education. about a quarter of children in the european union are obese, 50% of them only participate in sport during school physical education hours, while the number of hours spent in physical education is decreasing. this harmful process has led to the spread of diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, and spinal and joint injuries in europe, which will subsequently increase healthcare costs in individual member states. as a compensation for the sedentary lifestyle and lack of physical activity that characterise the lives of young europeans, we cannot afford to neglect such a simple but effective tool as the physical education watch. as a former olympian, as a sports coach and, of course, as a representative, it is my duty and responsibility to look at how the union can play its part in the fight against obesity in students, in promoting healthy, active lifestyles, in laying the foundations for the health and education of european young people through sport. let me congratulate the member states' leaders on the wise decision to not forget sport at the last lisbon summit and to give the union the right of initiative in sport after the adoption of the reform treaty. the commission has developed a number of programmes to promote healthy lifestyles and healthy diets, but there is a lack of coordination between these programmes. sports professionals, physical education teachers and coaches should be given a greater role and respect in the implementation. the commission's white paper on sport and the related action plan published in july is a step in the right direction. we also count on the commission's contribution to promoting research relevant to sport and to collecting statistical data on the sporting and physical condition of students. i consider it important to promote the mobility and further training of coaches and physical education teachers, using the framework of lifelong learning, the bologna process, to promote the mutual recognition of their diplomas and to facilitate more effective cooperation between professional sports organisations. school physical education develops important qualities beyond physical exercise such as endurance, team spirit, willpower, fair play, which young people entrusted to us will benefit from throughout their lives. in the member states, school sports facilities, gyms are often in a very poor state, poorly equipped and worn out. the lack of qualified physical education teachers, the lack of organisation of continuing vocational training and the lack of up-to-date content of the physical education curriculum are also major problems. unfortunately, school physical education has lost its importance, although it is the basis for the development of not only the body but also the mind. fine and gross motor skills, which can be well developed through sports and folk games or any other form of physical activity, are also essential for learning to read and write. it's no coincidence that children with dyslexia or dysgraphia are also treated with movement therapy. physical education is the only subject that focuses on physical development, physical fitness, and hygiene, rather than on mental development. physical education teachers and parents share the responsibility to teach and encourage children to lead a healthy lifestyle, to exercise regularly, and to draw attention to the harmful physical and mental effects of illicit performance-enhancing drugs, smoking, alcohol and other drugs. to improve the health and physical condition of school-age children, we recommend that physical education be made compulsory in primary and secondary schools, and that children have the opportunity to exercise at least three times a week within the curriculum. sport has a key role to play in promoting social inclusion and strengthening social cohesion, as it is an important means of socialisation and intercultural dialogue. the report focuses on gender equality. i also believe it is important that people with disabilities should be able to benefit from regular physical education in schools that is adapted to their needs and is increasingly integrated. in my report, i emphasize that school physical education, organized school sports, plays a vital role in the healthy development of children, not only physically but also mentally, and is also a social arena. in my report i propose that regions lagging behind in this area should be able to apply for funding from the structural funds for investments in sport. finally, i would like to thank the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities and the committee on employment and social affairs for their valuable contributions to the report. i respectfully ask my fellow members to support my report. thank you for your attention.
in writing. sport is now much more than a leisure activity: it permeates the whole of the economy and society. sport is the perfect educational tool: it teaches social coexistence and how to fit in with a group, to become a useful member of it. it teaches us respect for our colleagues and our opponents, and rules, solidarity, entrepreneurship, collective discipline. the key role of sport is widely recognised around the world and it has become an important actor in spreading positive values and messages and in building socially and environmentally sustainable economies. the rise of sedentary activities, the spread of cars, the decline in physical activity and the increasing consumption of high-energy food and drinks are causing significant health damage to our citizens. so from a young age, people need to be encouraged to adopt a healthier lifestyle, one of the main components of which is physical activity, and obviously they need to be provided with the right infrastructure, the right sports facilities. this involves a wide and fragmented range of sectors and activities, including institutions, social factors, broad communication, education, service expansion and political responsibility. changing the exercise and healthy lifestyle habits of european citizens will require a joint effort by the public and private sectors - a change in thinking, awareness and concrete, practical initiatives, infrastructure development - and municipalities have a special role to play in this.
thank you very much, commissioner, mr president, and my fellow members. officially, there are 560,000 romanian nationals in italy, but some estimates put the number at over 1 million. many of them live in settlements on the outskirts of rome, turin, milan, and naples. there is no excuse for roman murder, and those who commit a crime must answer for it in court. but as a liberal, i cannot accept, i cannot accept, that a criminal of any nationality, of any ethnic group, be used to condemn the entire group, to give way to violent actions by extremist forces, whose targets and victims are innocent people, as the unfortunate events that followed the murder show. i would remind you that i have spoken on several occasions with the commissioner for enlargement, olli rehn, about the fact that post-accession migration of people living in poor social conditions in settlements and in extreme poverty in the two countries that joined on 1 january 2007 could be a serious problem in the eu member states precisely because of the lack of integration. the warning was not followed by any serious action during the accession negotiations. i would not dare estimate the number of roma in europe who are fleeing from new member states to western and northern european member states in the hope of a better life, expressing their dissatisfaction with the integration policies of the abandoned country. i also raised the importance of preparing for the problems of migration in the run-up to the accession of the two countries, which was rejected by several of my colleagues in view of the restrictions on free movement. and our response to that is to hold an emergency cabinet meeting and pass a government order that creates a legal basis for deportation? serious concerns were raised about the constitutionality of the government's decision and its relationship to international and eu law. i am thinking here of the directive on free movement of persons and the breach of the racial directive. is this really a way of facing real problems? we cannot allow the eu27 to be in a situation where we are transferring problems from one country to another within its borders. let me just read you some of the data that i've read in the reports from the european commission and the european union agency for fundamental rights. in 2002/03, more than half of the pupils in slovakia's special schools were roma. in germany, half of roma children went to school only, and 80% of them went to special institutions. in hungary, slovakia, poland, bulgaria and slovenia, roma children make up the majority of those attending special schools. in 2003, 80% of roma in slovakia had no registered jobs, 80% of roma in romania, in bulgaria have incomes below the national poverty line and i could list ... (the president interrupts) i could list these cases even further. thank you, sir.
our fundamental objective is to provide a healthy environment for our citizens, and there are strict eu laws on most elements of our environment. soil is the only environmental element that we have not yet managed to regulate, so there is currently no eu instrument to stop soil pollution, soil degradation, which causes tens of millions of euros of damage to all of us. under current legislation, action against soil pollution is only required when it enters other environmental elements, such as groundwater, living waters and agricultural products, i.e. when it is practically too late to take action. i therefore welcome the adoption of this new directive by the european union and am pleased that a compromise package has been created which is even more acceptable from an environmental point of view. it is also important from the hungarian point of view that the legislation proposed by several of us also deals with the management of soil acidification. acidification is a serious threat to agricultural production and should therefore be addressed through union instruments. knowing the contaminated areas will encourage remediation, so we can prevent the contamination of drinking water sources and, of course, the cultivation of contaminated crops. soil regulation is therefore in the farmers' interest. i therefore hope that the efforts of some right-wing meps, including surprisingly hungarian meps, to prevent the birth of a directive protecting the interests of hungarian agriculture and the environment will not succeed. in the spirit of the directive, the rehabilitation of the areas surveyed as polluted or degraded will be a union task for which resources will have to be found in future community budgets.
thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs gutiérrez on having, despite the opposition in parliament, spared no time and effort to put together a draft text that was able to make it to the plenary debate, to the vote. in our day, when extreme weather events caused by climate change and the increasing burden of civilization are placing on the soil and thus on all living things, this legislation is of particular importance. one of the most important statements in the directive for me is that it says the importance of agricultural activity, the indefeasible merits of the people who work there in maintaining, preserving, improving the soil. without them, not only would we be deprived of food but our environment would suffer. sustainable agriculture based on knowledge is one of the main pillars of environmental protection. one of the most important conditions for this is information. publicly available information on soil conditions would be one of the benefits of the new legislation, which would finally protect people and farmers, not polluters. in my country, hungary, the picture is typically twofold: on the one hand, high-quality land, a high degree of legal protection, on the other hand, industrial pollution caused by 40 years of communism, which will take at least another 40 years and cost about 4 billion euros to clean up. we are already allocating eu funds to this compensation, but in the future we would like to speed up this process, which this legislation can do a lot to help. ladies and gentlemen, by finally adopting the soil directive, we are closing a process, in a religious-philosophical sense as well, in which the elements that make up the world - air, water, fire - have all been regulated and are, in accordance with their importance, under a high degree of protection by the union, and now we are about to come to the fourth element, the earth, completing the circle. thank you very much.
mr president, civil aviation seemed to be a luxury in the past, when mostly the rich and the so-called jet society used the advantages of quick flights. nowadays, at least in the european union, civil aviation is a necessary part of our life, without which the parliament and the council simply could not work. if the distance from brussels is more than 1 000 km, there is no realistic alternative to flights in the absence of rapid trains. with the accession of the new member states and the boom in low-fare airlines, we have two or three times more flights than before the enlargement of the eu. international aviation is not yet covered by the kyoto protocol. however, direct emissions from aviation account for about 3% of the eu’s total greenhouse gas emissions, and this is increasing fast. i think that the quantity of the three allowances should have been based on the emission rate per capita of greenhouse gases in the different member states, as there are large differences between them. i feel that it is unfair that western european countries have the right to emit around three times more greenhouse gas from aviation as hungary and other new member states. i think this principle should be applied in other environmental policies requiring a total amount of decrease instead of a percentage decrease. otherwise, those who polluted less in the past will be punished.
in writing. a growing proportion of the population in the developed world is aware of the threat posed by climate change. but to reduce our emissions by as much as 20% in 13 years, we need to take drastic steps. unfortunately, we can barely see the steps leading up. no matter which of the emission areas we look at, there are always voices that want to protect the industry in question. at the same time, we know that the target can only be achieved at the cost of reducing emissions by involving all the areas concerned. if we're gonna make an exception with one, we're gonna have to make an exception with another. so which one of you is gonna be the step-daughter? aviation is a small but dynamic field today. its increase is closely linked to the world price of raw materials, which it itself has a major impact on. we politicians will be strategically supportive of european companies only if we create an environment that encourages innovation. passengers are not affected by this, as the co2 reduction measures will increase the price of intra-european flights by up to eur 1. that's a fraction of what we're paying for counterterrorism security measures! at the same time, good quality railways within a distance of 1000 km must be competitive with air transport, and airplanes must be able to pay the real costs they incur to the same extent as rail and road transport.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the budgetary affairs members of the epp-ed group generally welcomed the commission's plans for 2008, and president barroso sent a clear message of political commitment. however, the work programme itself is more of an endless wish list. if we discussed the legislative plan and the annual policy strategy together at the beginning of the year, we could make the budget fit for purpose, not our purpose fit for the budget. parliament is committed to the galileo programme and the european institute of technology and expects the commission and the council to take decisions on these issues in the interests of european citizens. finally, i would like to stress that the commission not only has many programmes to promote growth and job creation, but also treats taxpayers' money responsibly and demands a similar responsibility from the member states. it is appropriate that in the event of serious abuse, the commission is prepared to suspend payments to the member state concerned. we hope that this painful step will not be taken, but everyone, including governments and european citizens, should know that the purpose of aid is to develop the regions that are lagging behind, to create growth and jobs, not to increase the bank accounts of the craftsmen and parasites. the commission can count on the effective support and cooperation of the european parliament in this area as well. thank you for your attention.
in writing. members of the european parliament, mr president, i welcome the european commission's work programme for 2008, which sets out the future of the union and the way forward for its development. i think it is important to stress that the document must contain not only principles but also concrete proposals in order to bring about a substantial change in european policy-making, especially in the field of social policy. in all eu countries, the emergence of increasing immigration in recent years is a major challenge. there are no adequate responses to address the social and economic problems associated with this. i agree that the work paper includes an integrated approach to migration and encourages the proper management of labour mobility, which is essential for economic development. europe needs the labour of immigrants, yet they are regularly subjected to discrimination and atrocities. we cannot allow our european migration policy to compromise on the basic requirements of humanity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on asylum and immigration, in particular by ensuring that the union's policies are consistent with the union's policy on asylum and immigration. legal migration should be promoted, while effective action against illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings is needed. all of this would require the development of a common european refugee policy. this requires better and clearer legislation and its consistent application, which would also help the union to win the trust of its citizens.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house is in session. on behalf of the group of the european people's party - european democrats, i welcome the introduction of the schengen system and let me take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the nine new member states, both the german and portuguese presidencies, the council, the commission and in particular mr coelho for the great work that has gone into achieving this. and we should also mention the efforts of the new member states, whose work has made it possible for us to be here today. the free movement of persons is one of the four freedoms of the union. we are now extending this achievement, this new area of freedom, to millions of new eu citizens. this is a common achievement, a common achievement of europeans, and we should be proud of it. i come from a town on the border of austria and hungary. for many decades, my city of sopron was separated by an iron curtain from its immediate surroundings and from austria. i have brought a piece of this iron curtain into this house, as i have done on many occasions. it was this iron curtain that made it impossible for freedom to be exercised in europe. with the introduction of the schengen system, the last vestiges of this will be removed. this piece of iron reminds us that our past was without freedom, that we must never let our freedom be taken away. but with freedom comes responsibility. the new member states take responsibility for the strict protection of the common european external borders, on which the security of all of us depends. nor should we allow the widespread social support for the right to free movement to be undermined. the european union's laws must therefore be respected by all eu citizens, and as commissioner frattini has just said, freedom of movement does not mean freedom of crime without borders. freedom must not be abused, because it threatens freedom itself, the right to free movement. we cannot allow the ill-fated principle of collective guilt to be revived by certain forces with the aim of undermining the right to free movement. we cannot allow crimes to go unpunished. i would therefore like to thank you again for the fact that the extension of the schengen system to these nine new member states is a historic event.
thank you, mr president. today's decision is indeed symbolic, and it is felt most strongly by those of us who grew up behind the barbed wire fence, who were allowed to cross the western border every three years, and who still remember the stomach-churning moments of crossing the border. by 2004, the date of accession, hungary had implemented the necessary legislation. since then, the necessary instruments for the protection of schengen have been established. the checks at both land and air borders have been rated as excellent. from now on, hungary will be responsible for 15% of the eastern border. we thank the member states for their solidarity and, in particular, the portuguese presidency for this responsible opportunity. and we thank the council for its flexibility, which has enabled us to resolve the problem of croatia and has also enabled us to resolve the situation of hungarians living beyond our borders through bilateral agreements, in accordance with their intentions and with the approval of the neighbouring countries. thank you all. thank you for your time, mr. president.
thank you for your time, mr. president. the new europe is now becoming tangible to us, where the artificial lines of separation that once existed are no longer there, and this will have a greater impact on the daily lives of all of us who live in the region. we congratulate and thank the portuguese presidency for creating the opportunity, the technical framework for this event. we thank commissioner frattini for the help he has given to these member states. and last but not least, i would like to thank my colleague, mr coelho, for the dedication with which he has handled this case. we are now experiencing firsthand the benefits of enlargement, both symbolically and practically, of being able to cross the danube bridges without controls, for example, or to row across the danube, which was an unimaginable dream for our parents. the dreaded wish of generations is coming true. this is how the young heroes of 1956 are now being honored by history. at the same time, we must do everything possible to extend this zone as soon as possible to the newly joined bulgaria and romania. in the case of the latter, for example transylvania, the romanian-hungarian border will have a significance that only the franco-german border resolution could have given to the people living there. at the same time, we must not forget that controls at the external borders of the schengen area will be even stricter. this puts the ethnic groups living outside our borders, the hungarians from the vayds and transcarpathia, with whom we have close relations, in a disadvantaged position. it is a condition for the survival of those living there, it is our constitutional obligation. the external borders should not become another iron curtain towards these communities. only then, with the attention of the outsiders, can we celebrate the opening of the border. thank you for the word.
the accession of nine member states represents a significant step forward in the field of integration for both the european union and the member states concerned. finally, there will be a tangible benefit to citizens of being a member of the european union. i am grateful to the portuguese presidency for doing everything it could to ensure that we could join at the planned date of 2007, despite attempts to thwart this. the member states concerned, which have made a great effort to meet the strict criteria and conditions, should also be acknowledged. it is very important that no new iron curtain should be drawn between the newly joined countries and the neighbouring countries. visa facilitation and border control agreements can be of great help in this regard, but the ultimate goal must be to achieve visa-free travel. this requires a concrete and realistic timetable allowing for the swift establishment of visa-free travel. thank you, sir.
in writing. we still remember the anxiety we felt when we crossed the iron curtain with a valid passport in our pocket. even if the passport was valid, even if we got all the stamps in it, there was always a chance something might happen at the border. or if it wasn't, we were afraid of it, because crossing the border was considered an extraordinary event in europe. with the fall of the iron curtain, the border was easier to cross, but controls remained. and the border was still only crossed at a few designated points, making life difficult for the local population in particular. now it's over, the borders, as the hungarian democrats have wanted for many decades, are gone. from now on, it will be as natural for us to cross the border from one country to another as it is for people living near the border to cross the border from budapest to budapest by car, by bus 22 or on foot, on the hiking trail. for people of the same nationality living on both sides of the border, it is particularly important to have complete freedom of movement without any controls. we've passed some of the most important legislation recently, and i'm proud to be a part of this great process.
in writing. i consider the commission's proposal to be important and forward-looking. european political parties play an important role in policymaking at european level. but they play a major role not only in european politics but also in shaping the wider european public sphere, and i think it is timely to redefine their role and their activities. it is a key issue to support the initiatives of these european political parties in order to encourage the conscious participation of citizens in the democratic life of the union and in its shaping. i am confident that there is a need and opportunity for measures to strengthen and extend the political dialogue. it is important to ensure the widest possible participation of citizens in the democratic life of the union, including, not least, young people, in order to ensure that everyone is heard. i would like to mention here that one of the european union's clear political objectives remains to promote and advance the development of european society. to this end, the commission document emphasises the support for political foundations at european level, which can help, support and complement the activities of political party families close to them, through various initiatives such as the organisation of european seminars, training courses and conferences. finally, these european level foundations can provide an effective financial framework for european level cooperation between national political foundations and educators, including youth organisations and other representatives of civil society.
thank you, madam president. i speak as the representative of a region that had no choice in its post-war destiny. it was a barbed wire between our countries and the happier parts of europe, but it couldn't stop the unintended effects of globalisation. in 2000, we began to identify ourselves with the strategy of competitiveness and solidarity, work and working people, the lisbon strategy. since then, the balance has shifted several times to return on capital and to the fear that the human face of strategy is becoming obscured. competitiveness and work are undeniably and historically inseparable concepts, and we are beginning to realize that decent work is just part of decent living. a decent life also includes basic security, access to healthy living and cultural goods, non-discrimination, and acceptable living conditions. but europe must not only see itself as a guardian of values, but also as a realiser of the dreams of generations, creating opportunities for european citizens and creators from third countries. and that is why solidarity should not be the only motto, but the opportunity for people who are able or able to create. my fellow members of parliament, the labour market, capital seeking to return, is ruthlessly selective, and new sources of labour require investment, more than the price at which capital, which is increasingly easy to relocate, can acquire workers. the europe of values cannot accept the absence of jobs for the young and the old, for the poor and the unemployed, for the gypsies who are suffering from various forms of disadvantage. in particular, to ensure that the burden of disadvantage no longer rests on the shoulders of future generations, the community resources spent on them not only keep them within the limits of a decent life, but also further increase the chances of european competitiveness. thank you, madam president.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, the committee and the members of the european parliament, the development of globalization is the result of more and more countries becoming democratic and engaging in free world trade. as such, it marks the success of half a century of european peace and democracy. and the fact that some countries sometimes gain an advantage in international competition by irregular means is a sign that the transition to the rule of law is gradual, not instantaneous. europe must therefore continue to aim at promoting and strengthening democracy. how we succeed in the global competition that this has created is up to us. as the author of parliament's globalisation report, i know that we have recognised the challenges and that action is needed. we must ensure that our present prosperity is preserved for our grandchildren, while the rest of the world is also developing. will they have energy, will they have a livable environment? this is what european energy policy is all about, building a low-carbon economy. we need to ensure that all people, regardless of their origin and location in europe, and all businesses, regardless of their size and location, can develop all their talents, the best of their abilities. this is what equal opportunities, building a knowledge-based society, innovation policy, the new european sme policy are all about. we need to move into the digital age, and to do that, we need to make e-inclusion a reality in every field and for everyone. so all the tools are there, you just have to do it. get to work.
rapporteur. – mr president, i do not want to steal my colleagues’ time, but as we did not have a plenary debate and we have reached the first reading discussion, i would like to inform you about the basic elements of the new legislation on gmos. the compromise package gives parliament the right to control the deliberate release of gmos. parliamentary control means transparency on this sensitive issue. the eurobarometer opinion poll showed that, with regard to gmos, 94% of our citizens want the right to choose, 86% want to know more before consuming gmos and 71% simply do not want gmo food. that is why our greatest success is that the council and the commission have agreed to parliamentary control of the implementation of the labelling requirements of gmos. i wish to thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the portuguese presidency. having greater openness on genetically modified organisms makes europe more democratic.
thank you, mr president. as a representative of the mdf, i voted in favour of the establishment of a european soil directive because i am convinced that this is necessary. without good quality and adequate quantities of soil, european agriculture is also at risk. i am confident that if this legislation is adopted, we will be able to work with eu funds to clean up the soil and preserve its quality. but i would like to warn the member states that this is only possible if they take their responsibilities seriously. in my country, for example, action is almost exhausted in the preparation of plans, their implementation is delayed. hungary has a national indemnity programme, but there is no consistent implementation of it. the government doesn't provide the necessary resources. there's 18 million euros in the budget for next year, which is ridiculous for the size of the problem. at this rate, it would take more than 220 years to complete the cleaning of the soil of the pollutants known today. more serious! thank you, sir.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the union's objective is to create a zone of prosperity, stability and security with its neighbours. there have been some serious and admirable achievements in this area, but there have also been serious failures. there is no substantial progress in the frozen conflicts, and we see no vision for resolving the crises in transnistria, abkhazia, palestine or western sahara. the countries of the neighbourhood policy are not united geographically, culturally, economically or politically. this requires a differentiated, country-specific approach: what may be good for jordan may not be good for ukraine. the political and budgetary balance between the eastern and southern dimensions of the neighbourhood policy must be achieved as soon as possible. this should lead to a strengthening of the eastern dimension, as an obvious consequence of the recent enlargement of the european union. we have received a number of promises from the commission on this, but we expect the commission to act on them. thank you, sir.
mr president, i am also very concerned about the crisis in georgia and i have to admit that i am negatively surprised. recent developments are very unfortunate and regrettable for all those who are in favour of the democratic development of georgia. the reports of organisations such as amnesty international and human rights watch and the georgian ombudsman’s report are very disturbing. given the situation in the country at present, i welcome the statement by the speaker of the georgian parliament that the state of emergency will be lifted on friday and that within two days from today normal life will hopefully return to the georgian citizens. the situation, in my opinion, undermines the reputation of the government and also of mr saakashvili, who rose to power with peaceful protests in 2003, and that cast him as the most democratic leader in the caucasus. the fact that president saakashvili has already called presidential elections on 5 january 2008 is a positive step that has already helped to ease the tensions in the country. but the government has to hold a democratic and free election in accordance with international standards in order to show to the world that the country is moving on. therefore the government must guarantee that the election campaign will ensure freedom of expression to all the candidates. i welcome the dialogue which is taking place between the authorities and the opposition; it is a progressive sign. i also expect and call upon all the parties involved to act with responsibility during the whole electoral campaign and to engage constructively in the challenge, which is free and safe democratic elections.
thank you very much, mr. president. i'd like to join those who congratulated our congressman zaleski on his excellent report. it is in the interest of the european union that ukraine be politically stable and economically developed. a successful ukraine could serve as a positive example for all countries of the region, the former soviet post-soviet states, and contribute to the consolidation of democracy in the region. the european union must help and encourage ukraine to link its future not to russia but to the european union. ukraine is a european country, linked to europe by its geographical location, history and cultural traditions. we must help ukraine to become capable of applying wto rules. wto membership could lead to a free trade agreement with the european union. the expansion of trade is in the common interest of europe and ukraine, but trade free from distortions is needed to ensure that ukraine also applies social, labour, animal and plant health and environmental rules. without it, we would face a number of problems. let me tell you what the example of hungary would be in this case, because hungary borders ukraine. in hungary, poultry farmers have to make very costly investments in order to meet animal welfare and environmental standards. if the concluded free trade agreement covers livestock products, then a significant proportion of hungarian producers would relocate their production facilities to ukraine, less than 100 km from their current sites, and would carry out competitive production at very low costs. but all the products that would be produced by circumventing animal welfare standards would be returned to the european union, just as we would have to face environmental problems in hungary through the tisza river, which flows from ukraine to hungary. i therefore believe that we must help ukraine to apply all international social, animal health, environmental and animal welfare rules as soon as possible. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. the report under review rightly highlights the strategic importance of ukraine as a partner of the european union, as it can play an important mediating role in the dialogue with russia and other central asian countries. we are convinced that strengthening economic relations along free market principles will be beneficial to both parties. this is particularly true in the field of energy policy. the events of recent months have once again highlighted the lack of transparency in the energy sector in ukraine today. the lack of transparency in the relationship has given rise to corruption and political pressure. this does not contribute to the establishment of market conditions. they are hampering ukraine's eu integration efforts and threatening the security of european supply. the european union and ukraine should therefore jointly seek to ensure that the principles of transparency and competition are applied in the development of energy cooperation. however, the relationship must always be based on reciprocity. it is important to note that economic cooperation between the european union and ukraine cannot be interpreted without taking into account russian aspirations. the incoming ukrainian government could play an important role in ensuring that the principles set out above apply not only to the dialogue with the union but also to the region as a whole.
in writing. – following the 2004 enlargement and the accession of countries with common external borders with ukraine, it is clear that ukraine has become a neighbour of strategic importance to the eu as a whole, as well as a determinant actor in the region. since 2004, the eu has been the most important trade partner of ukraine, and the eastern expansion of the union’s borders has definitively opened up new opportunities for trade, industrial cooperation and economic growth in the region. in this respect, it is of the utmost importance for the union to actively support the wto accession of ukraine, following which it will be possible to establish a genuine eu-ukraine free trade area within a sound and transparent institutional framework. generally speaking, it is indeed in the interests of the union to foster a good commercial, economic and social performance in ukraine in order to secure trade relations and political stability in the region. we therefore support the call for a coordinated global response to the political, economic and social challenges in eastern central europe. more specifically, we ought to set up consistent approaches, together with ukraine, on important issues, such as the reliability of energy supply, nuclear safety, agricultural matters and environmental sustainable standards.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you very much. i would like to emphasise that this is a very important area, since between 5 and 7% of the european union's gdp is generated by revenues from goods and services protected by copyright and related rights. this underlines the importance of the proper management of rights. as you know, in 2005 the european commission adopted a recommendation on the cross-border treatment of legal online music services. at the time, commissioner mccreevy described the recommendation as a non-binding 'soft law' instrument designed to steer the market in the right direction. the recommendation has far-reaching implications for the royalty market and the main players in the market are already acting on this basis. the recommendation clearly goes beyond the interpretation and supplementation of the relevant rules and has an impact that encompasses all the features of the legislative initiative as a whole. at the time, many fears were expressed about this recommendation, including that it would lead to uncontrolled competition and concentrate market power in the hands of a few large rights managers and create monopoly situations. that's why i thought i would put a proposal in an own-initiative report to regulate the online music market in a different way. the recommendation adopted by the commission deprived the european parliament and the member states of the opportunity to exert a significant influence on changes affecting competition and cultural diversity in europe. that is why i was able to win the support of the whole parliament and all the political parties for my report, in order to ensure that the decision-making triangle is valid, so that parliament cannot be left out of legislation in such an important area, and i proposed that the commission should draw up a framework directive. in my view, this proposed directive should meet the following requirements: it should ensure a high level of protection and equal treatment for rightholders. it should be based on solidarity between rightholders and a fair and appropriate balance between rightholders. it should ensure democratic, transparent and accountable management of rightholders, including by setting minimum standards for organisational structure, transparency, representation, copyright and distribution rules and accounting. the collective management organisations should ensure broad transparency. creativity and cultural diversity must be encouraged. only fair and controlled competition should be possible without territorial restrictions, but with the necessary and appropriate quality conditions in terms of joint management of copyright and preservation of the value of the rights. a high level of legal certainty for users should be ensured and the possibility of a global repertoire should be preserved. so we ask, or i ask you to consider, that there should be a directive to regulate this important area.
madam president, my point of order is under rule 9(2), concerning the smooth conduct of parliamentary business. we have been informed about the presence of asbestos in the winston churchill and sdm buildings in strasbourg. the latest report ‘has confirmed a more widespread presence of asbestos’ than was initially believed in our places of work there. asbestos is one of the most dangerous carcinogens, and can endanger human life. we should therefore request proper information on the risk assessment and detailed information on the removal of asbestos from parliament’s buildings, including the schedule and safety measures for this. the health and safety of meps, employees and visitors to parliament should be an absolute priority.
in writing. individually and collectively, citizens of european countries have fought for each of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. it is therefore welcome that the charter of fundamental rights, by making it legally binding, will finally allow fundamental rights to be enforced more effectively not only at the level of national legislation and application but also at the european level. european citizens will benefit from having the right to seek redress for violations of their fundamental rights at european level. these guarantees will make the european union and its actions more democratic and more directly perceptible and controllable by half a billion european citizens. the binding of the charter of fundamental rights will mark the end of an era in the history of the struggle for fundamental rights. at the same time, i believe that the charter of fundamental rights should become the future poetic art of europe. alongside the common economic interest, fundamental rights must guide europe and bring its people together. and not just along the lines of classical freedoms, but also social and cultural rights, equal treatment, or ensuring minority rights. in the poetics of horace ars, he says, "choose your subject according to your strength, writers. you've got to think long and hard about what your shoulders can handle. i hope that the institutions of the european union will be strong and courageous enough to guarantee the same basic rights in every corner of europe, for all european citizens equally.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. economic development and job creation are the primary requirements in europe today. the development of the economy requires a step up in job creation, which requires planning for a longer period of time than one or two years, in order to make the use of the solidarity funds more flexible. the threat of climate change must be addressed and a secure and sustainable energy supply must be organised. environmental protection and the introduction of environmentally friendly technologies are now a global issue affecting society as a whole. following the lisbon strategy, and where necessary amended, the union must be transformed into a region of prosperity,solidarity,security and freedom, seeking new partnerships with the whole world, but in particular with its immediate neighbours, asia and africa. europe must play a leading role in globalisation! this requires the creation of a knowledge-based society, in which citizens acquire knowledge that is usable and flexible and extensible in everyday life through education and training. lifelong learning is the basis for labour mobility. full equality of opportunity in employment must be achieved, social exclusion must be combated, and the underprivileged, the disadvantaged and the marginalised must be supported. particular attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be the guarantee of a welfare society and a satisfactory level of employment. we need to put energy production on a secure footing, reduce consumption, and stop waste by introducing energy-saving technologies. the reduction in the use of fossil fuels should be accompanied by an increase in the share of alternative energy sources.
in writing. the re-regulation of television without frontiers has been a success. it's great to see that we're creating a legal foundation for digital and non-linear television. with the rapid advancement of technology, we are indeed in the twenty-fourth hour. i think it is very important that public service television stations, which transmit community values, should also benefit from the possibilities offered by new technologies. if public service broadcasters cannot keep up with commercial channels in terms of technical quality, they fear that they will lose their audience and that younger generations will not be able to access their cultural, public and other demanding programs at all. the final version is a major relaxation of the rules of advertising. it is particularly regrettable that even the artificial raising of advertising voices has not been prohibited, although this practice is hated by our electorate throughout europe. it's also sad that children's shows can be interrupted by commercials. the product placement regulation is a sensible compromise. the legislation does little to achieve the objectives of the european parliament, but if it were not introduced, the lack of regulation would probably be even more problematic.
thank you very much, mr. president. my fellow members of parliament, mr president. i would like to say a few words about the situation of the roma in europe in relation to our resolution adopted at our last plenary session. i believe it is essential that the european commission and parliament should take on this responsibility together, with a much greater emphasis than before, in the design, implementation and monitoring of programmes for the integration of minorities, excluded and marginalised groups. as part of this, it would be very important for members of the european parliament, together with the commissioners responsible for minorities, their integration and inclusion, to work together as a professional group to develop a comprehensive, cross-border and effectively supervised roma strategy that would also provide access to eu development programmes for the most disadvantaged and disadvantaged groups in the most deprived areas. this will require the development of a pan-european crisis map to help assess areas of extreme poverty. the european people's party was the first in this parliament to adopt a roma strategy two years ago. i'd like to see the other parties join in. i think it's very important that we all come together at the roma hearing on february 14th, and stand up for this minority. it's very important that something happens. thank you, sir.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the potential of health tourism. it is important to make use of all available programmes to support this health tourism, including the second community health action programme. i would like to stress that we need to involve the insurance industry more in supporting health tourism and that we need to find ways together to shape this funding into cross-border cooperation. the question is whether we will be able to make this service part of the common market. we are talking about a service that not only contributes to economic growth but also helps european citizens to be able to enjoy the opportunities offered by health tourism and, in particular, the opportunities offered by the common market. it is true that this will require, or would require, a more rigorous system of qualification, and i therefore strongly support the initiative of president costa, who has outlined certain actions in this direction. it would be good for our european tourism if people from outside, from third countries, really knew what they were getting and why they were paying. i think that when we talk about this sector, we have to look at tourism in a much broader way and we have to look at what this service can bring us in terms of the common market. thank you very much.
in writing. globalisation, demographic change and transport developments are also major contributors to the rapid growth of tourism and have significant potential for growth and employment. tourism currently contributes around 4% to eu gdp, indirectly accounts for over 10% of eu gdp and accounts for around 12% of total employment. tourism promotes better understanding between people and fosters the development of a european identity, and also encourages intercultural dialogue through links between social, economic and cultural groups. the establishment of a european tourism model is of primary importance for the union, as tourism objectives should be based on values related to quality, sustainability, and equal access for all. the simplification of regulations, the coordination of policies affecting tourism and the expansion of the use of available european financial instruments should be actively promoted. tourism development must be sustainable, i.e. it must take account of local communities and the environment. this requires a supportive framework involving all regional and local stakeholders and an effective structure within which partnership and effective leadership are facilitated. the measures taken to achieve the objectives must strictly respect the principle of subsidiarity, which defines the allocation of responsibilities between the various parties concerned.
drafted by the committee on industry, research and energy. thank you for your time, madam president. mr. commissioner, my fellow members of the house. the linking of the two issues dealt with in the report before us is extremely timely. the link between certain forms of trade and climate change is becoming increasingly clear. there is no denying that intensive international trade has many negative consequences, including increased carbon dioxide emissions and reduced greenhouse gas-absorbing vegetation habitat. however, i am convinced that free trade is not in itself the same as environmental damage. the expansion of trade and the international division of labour has negative effects but also improves the efficiency of production. and that can result in less resources being used overall. in this spirit, let me, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, highlight three ideas from the opinion drawn up by our committee. first, it is essential that trade barriers to environmentally friendly technologies be removed as soon as possible. this requires the european union to play an active role in international negotiations on climate change. secondly, we must strive to ensure that product prices in the future reflect the negative consequences that are not directly observable, including the effects of climate change. finally, thirdly, we believe that a sufficiently in-depth discussion of the link between trade and climate change is a primary community interest. this is all the more so as europe can play a leading role in exporting green products and services to the world. my fellow members of the house of representatives! as the above points show, the members of the industry committee are unanimous in their view that both the removal of barriers to trade and action on climate change can only be achieved through the broadest possible international cooperation. the discussions in the committee have also reinforced our view that, in the face of climate change, trade is not only part of the problem, but also part of the solution. thank you very much, madam president.
thank you very much, mr. president. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the house, the document before us is of great economic, social and political importance, and its main objective was to bring the provisions of the brussels i regulation into line with the legislative work on rome ii, striking a proper balance between the two. a good compromise solution has been found, as we have heard from the comments made by our colleagues here, and this is indeed thanks to the excellent cooperation between the council, the commission and the european parliament. the union has set itself the objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, and this requires the kind of compromise solutions we are seeing here today, and this is a major step forward for consumers. the consumer can only be sued in his own country, and this kind of solution to this important right of contract, this important right of economic life, is certainly a step forward. thank you very much.
thank you for your time, mr. president. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the russian elections on december 2nd may cause us concern. the osce and council of europe observers who were able to obtain visas reported serious abuses. in the run-up to the vote, the ruling forces have done everything possible to thwart the political movements opposing them. their efforts to deprive the russian society of the most important pillar of democracy, the freedom of choice. we are convinced that europe cannot bury its head in the sand with regard to antidemocratic processes. the claim of government stability cannot justify under any circumstances the restriction of freedom of expression and choice. we must not forget that a state which applies the policy of force within its borders will not shy away from it in its international relations. we believe that there is no alternative to deeper cooperation between the european union and russia. however, bilateral relations must always be based on respect for human rights and genuine reciprocity. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. in the elections to the european parliament in romania, four representatives of hungarian nationality won a mandate: mr csibi magor, mr sógor csaba, mr lászló tőkés and mr gyula winkler. this is an excellent result, a great opportunity for the hungarian community to fight for autonomy, mother tongue education and an independent hungarian-language public university, in line with best practice throughout europe. i would like to mention in particular the person of bishop lászló tőkeles, who has enriched us all with an honest, authentic member, committed to democracy and human rights. he was elected as an independent, individual candidate, without a party list, which is rarely done before. the fact that his campaign is based on honest values about fundamental human rights played a major role in his electoral success. with his activities to date, his role in the democratic transition in romania, and his steadfast struggle for the hungarian community in romania, the most populous indigenous national minority in europe, he has become a kind of myth in hungarian politics. on behalf of the hungarian people's party delegation, i feel it is my duty to welcome our compatriots as elected representatives of the hungarian community living in romania. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. the ethnic diversity of the northern serbian province of vojvodina is once again a cause for concern, and the european parliament has declared it a value to be protected in several resolutions. the tolka agreement, which was otherwise unduly imposed on serbia by the european union, provides for the readmission of tens of thousands of persons estimated to be illegally present in the member states of integration. since the serbian government has no strategy for the social and geographical reintegration of this mass, it is useless to prohibit on paper the change of ethnic proportions by resettlement if the repatriated people do not flow to their original emitting settlements but to vojvodina, which is considered a more developed region. it's no coincidence that the police list all the empty apartments here. in addition, the locals are rightly afraid of an uncontrolled wave of kosovar refugees. tensions are heightened by recent military recruitment, which the hungarians of vojvodina, although loyal serbian citizens, consider unjustified by a nato peace partner country seeking a peaceful kosovo settlement. thank you, mr president.
thank you very much, mr. president, and colleagues. the united nations general assembly adopted the universal declaration of human rights on this day in 1948, which is why we celebrate human rights day on this day. i respectfully ask, do we really have cause for celebration? there is no doubt that the values set out in the document are still the foundation of the union, of our european identity. but it is not just because of the holiday that we cannot ignore the fact that in several member states of the union, from hungary to greece, from slovakia to the netherlands - i could give you a list of examples - political groups are re-emerging and gaining strength, which, dressed in uniform and marching with the symbols of failed dictatorships, are calling these values into question. i ask all responsible european politicians to make this holiday more beautiful, to stand together against extremist groups! i hope my group will be able to table a resolution in parliament which will speak out against extremist behaviour. there could be no better time than international human rights day for this unity. thank you very much.
thank you very much, mr. president. this year, all 27 eu countries celebrated the birth, 50th anniversary or birthday of the european union in a series of events. the last time i attended an event like this was in early december, in the castle of the swallows. the city of vashon is located on the slovak-austrian-hungarian border, so it is no wonder that there were many mayors from all three countries. the participating mayors took an initiative addressed to the european parliament and the president of the european parliament. the idea is to follow the ancient greek tradition and to have the european parliament take the initiative in the days of the olympic games, so that for the first time in beijing in 2008, the guns will be silenced all over the world. mr. president, the theme of this appeal is "17 days of peace". the mayors have started a petition on 1 december which they would like to hand over to you in strasbourg in the spring, mr president. and i've been asked to give you this call, which i've just made. thank you, sir.
my fellow officers. today marks a turning point in the history of the western balkans, but also in the history of the european union as a whole. today is the un deadline for the serbs and albanians to reach an agreement. it was foreseeable that this trojan's endeavor was doomed to failure. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the fight against organised crime. kosovo will become a protectorate of the union. the kosovo settlement will be a decisive test of the common foreign and security policy. will we be able to form a united front, or will we fall victim to the american-russian feud? the eu's failure to unite is a serious threat to the region's recovery and european integration, and it is therefore very important that there is a good and fair settlement in kosovo. this is the responsibility of the union.
thank you, mr president. more than 300 million people worldwide suffer from asthma, 30 million of them in europe and 200,000 in hungary. in western europe, 18 percent of asthmatics are classified as having severe asthma. the number of asthma patients in my country, hungary, has increased by 250 percent in the last ten years. the number of new cases diagnosed each year has doubled over the same period. and the number one cause of asthma, of asthma attacks, is air pollution. i think that these data speak for themselves, the report that lies before us, and whose fate we will decide tomorrow, only partly environmental protection, much more quality of life, health protection. one of the biggest problems with eu legislation today is the lack of enforcement of eu legislation. unfortunately, that's what the air quality regulations say. so our primary task today is not to vote for new, even stricter rules, but to promote compliance with the existing ones. lakhemi, budapest, a city of two million, reaches the limit for particulate matter in the first third of the year, and it is not uncommon to exceed it by four or five times. our task is therefore to develop the existing legislation in a sensible way, to draw up guidelines which do not impose additional tasks but, by refining those already in place, actually help the eu population to have cleaner air. i think that this wish is fulfilled by the krahmer report. the advantage is that it aims to measure and capture air pollution primarily at the source, which is a sound approach from a professional point of view. so the compromise is not ambitious, but forward-looking. i am confident that the cities and member states concerned will now be able to implement it more consistently, and perhaps pass on a more livable europe to our children. thank you very much, mr. president.
in writing. the right to clean air can also be interpreted as a human right, since it is the responsibility of the member states and the european union to ensure at least the basic conditions of human existence (clean water and air). fifty or a hundred years ago, the symbol of industrial society was the smoking factory chimney. today, our values have changed, and we at least speak of a clean and natural way of life. unfortunately, the air in our cities only partially confirms this. with the collapse of heavy industry, or the move to the third world, industrial pollution decreased, but motorization increased many times over. in a country of ten million people, hungary, there were one million cars 25 years ago, now there are three times as many, and nearly a million of them pollute budapest's air, with all its disastrous health consequences. lung cancer has increased manyfold, and asthma has increased ninefold. small children living near busy roads are essentially at constant risk. it also emerged that particulate matter from diesel cars is a particular danger to human health. europe is ashamed that the eu has looser standards than the us in this regard. we should not just talk, but finally act. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to reduce the number of cars in towns and cities, and to introduce stricter emission standards for vehicles that are still in use. we must change from a society of polluters to a society of healthy living!
thank you very much. i'd like to address three questions, because the wine industry is too broad to cover all of them. the first question concerns the grubbing-up aid, the second the aid for the restructuring of plantations and the third the compulsory distillation of by-products. i agree with the principles of reform. the current state of the wine industry is unsustainable. the distillation subsidies must be abolished because they are wasteful. but this creates surpluses to eliminate, so a significant portion of the plantations must be cut down. we're good for now. the problem is that this can only be done fairly by cutting down the plantations and concentrating the aid for cutting down the plantations in the regions where the surplus was produced. that's not what's happening. what is happening is that this reform is placing an unfair burden on the member states and regions that are not producing surpluses. this is particularly unacceptable in the case of the new member states, where we had no distillation aid or surpluses before accession, when we were still outside the eu. in hungary, we have cut about 10% of our plantations since we entered. this is not taken into account in the reform, and it is not taken into account now, because we are not producing surplus, but we have become a net importer. the reform will be most damaging to countries that have been producing wine in balance and, in fact, producing less wine than they consume. the second issue i would like to address is the question of planting aid. it is particularly unacceptable that the form of this aid is being reduced in hungary. don't let the safe lady be afraid to open pandora's box. it's better to have an argument than to make an unfair decision. the resolution of the parliament will offer a suitable solution, the parliament will propose that no member state should receive less modernisation aid than in 2007-2008, that would be a good solution. i am also in favour of abolishing the rules on the compulsory distillation of by-products, because it is a wasteful, unnecessary and unsustainable measure from an environmental point of view. thank you very much.
my fellow officers. we agree that the current regulation of pepper was extremely bad, but at the same time, it is very questionable whether this wine reform will be good. there are many questions, because it is obvious that this reform is absolutely necessary, but this reform is being made at the expense of the poorest wine-producing regions. the distribution of the national envelope system - which the commissioner has spoken about - to the new member states is extremely damaging. it's discriminatory, it rewards those who have produced poor quality wine for distillation, because they get paid the same way. parliament has moved in the right direction, and the final compromise could be to have 2/3 of the area and the quantity and 1/3 of the historical reference. it is very useful that the possibility of increasing the alcoholic strength by volume of sugaring is still available. marketing is very important, but it should also be provided within the union. i agree with the abolition of distillation, it's the most positive aspect of the reform, but i say again, this money will go to those who have been growing distillation. the concept of cutting subsidies has failed because it represents a huge attraction for the poorest member states. in our new member states, they will also cut the grapes that produce good quality. thank you for your attention.
thank you for your time, madam president. my dear colleagues, the aim of the wine market reform is to encourage the production of acceptable wines of good quality. we welcome the fact that the proposal will continue to allow the increase in the alcoholic strength by sugar in areas where this is a traditionally applied method. in the new member states, like hungary, we have good wines, we don't typically produce surplus. if a wine is of good quality, it doesn't matter if it's made with added sugar or not. however, to make the wines more marketable, modernisation and structural change are needed. the role of marketing is particularly important, with the expenditure of larger national budgetary allocations to implement investments to facilitate restructuring, especially in the new member states. we cannot therefore accept the proposal to give priority to historical allocations in the design of national envelopes, which would otherwise lead to discrimination, while favouring the countries which are mainly responsible for overproduction. thank you for your kind attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. and yet it moves! galileo galilei is said to have said. now, after many years of stalling, the galileo programme is finally moving. i congratulate the rapporteur, the commission, the commissioner and the whole parliament for having forced the agreement. but why the compulsion? why didn't the council act sooner? why are you so worried about paying the union again? why are we not happy that the union is ready and able to implement important programmes such as galileo? why did they have to scrape together the necessary amount from surplus funds instead of everyone taking on the burdens along with the benefits of the investment? why does the council try to reduce the cohesion policy budget by more than 100 million every year? why did it take a decade to curb agricultural subsidies for the new member states and to make european citizens who were receiving different forms of support compete with each other in the common market? when the emperor of austria, king maria theresa of hungary, asked for help in the wars, the hungarian nobles enthusiastically said: "our life and blood! but they added, "no, we're not going to pay the cost". it's hard to be productive with that attitude. we should not think of the eu budget as money thrown away. it is a means of giving european citizens value for money. this is what parliament has been working on, this is what the commission has been working on, and this is what the council has been working on. i wish the thoughts and intentions had been reconciled sooner. thank you for your kind attention.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. thank you, madam president. i'd like to congratulate the reporter and my fellow shadow reporters, and i think that might be enough to conclude this story with a second reading tomorrow. the second reading was a compromise, and i would like to make a brief comment on the compromise that was important to my group: one of them was the question of punishment, which has been raised on several occasions. the current text has been improved a lot, i think it has a lot of immunity for those who might be affected. it is indeed a step forward that the licence does not have to be withdrawn immediately, and i also hope that the in-house system that the commission has set up as an appeal body will actually work and that small businesses will not be ruined. the other big issue for my group was the pricing policy, especially on the british-czech side. it is still too expensive for small businesses, as my british colleagues will tell you, and i hope that the commission's commitment to look even more closely at the situation of small businesses in the review will be felt. i thought it was very important to have a governing authority, a governing board, and parliament was given a role of political control, which i think is a very important step forward, since the member states do not send to this board whoever they want. and it's important that this authority has financial independence, that we can put revenue into different categories depending on where it's coming from. so, in sum, i would like to say that i congratulate all my colleagues, and i hope that everyone has been shouldered the responsibility, which also indicates that, by working together, we were able to bring the question of aircrew back to the original committee level, as opposed to the council, and it indicates that we were also able to find a very good compromise on the limitation of flight time. i would like to thank the council, the commission and the rapporteur once again for their work.
in writing. – with the recent common agricultural policy reforms and possible future developments in world trade organisation negotiations, there is clearly a genuine need to enhance community promotion mechanisms concerning agricultural production. moreover, the implementation of the action plan on simplification calls indeed for the design of a single legal framework on the promotion of agricultural products for both internal and external markets. promotion instruments and campaigns should be given the utmost importance when bearing in mind the foreseen tariff cuts, the elimination of export refunds and the community domestic support cuts. in this respect, it is obvious that we ought to increase the scope and the budget for the promotion of our agricultural production to ensure viable competitiveness for our products on both internal and external markets. as a matter of fact, it is essential to increase the budgetary means to ensure quality promotion instruments and transparent measures within a single and simplified legal framework. more specifically, this morning debate on the wine common market organisation reform is an extremely good example of the urgent necessity to sufficiently invest in efficient promotion instruments and marketing measures within and outside the union.
madam president, madam commissioner, on august 8th, 2008, the opening of the olympic games will be watched by billions of people with great interest. and it's not just sports fans who are paying attention, but everyone who expects china to make progress on human rights. unfortunately, we can't be satisfied with the results so far. the chinese communist party can be proud of its success in legitimizing its power. but we also have the opportunity to make good use of the period leading up to the olympics and to demand a strict accounting of human rights violations. the eu-china human rights dialogue has been held 24 times to date. the balance of this is not favourable at all. some progress has been made, for example in the area of the death penalty, but there are serious setbacks in many areas. that's freedom of speech, that's freedom of the press, that's freedom of the internet. to change that, we have to change the human rights dialogues. first of all, we must say that the human rights dialogue is not the exclusive forum for raising such problems. it is the duty of every member state to take a firm and tough stance on these issues in bilateral relations. secondly, the presence of ngos and the publicity of the negotiations must be ensured. publicity is very important so we can control what's going on there. dialogue is not an end in itself, it only makes sense if it contributes to the improvement of the human rights situation in china. finally, i would like to speak about the situation of the uighur minority. it's a little-known, little-noticed minority. they are not only victims of general oppression in china, but also of ethnic, religious, and linguistic discrimination. i'm asking you to act in their best interests. thank you, sir.
madam president, today we are having a debate on the eu-china summit, which took place 10 days ago, and on the 24th round of the eu-china human rights dialogue, which took place two months ago. especially today, let me start with the second one. respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is a core principle of the eu and its policies and it is something that we all strongly care about and support. but i am one of those who believe that the eu should follow a result-oriented approach in promotion of respect for human rights rather than a purely principled one and, most importantly, we have to accept that the improvements will only come step-by-step. that does not mean that the eu should hesitate in voicing its criticism and using its power to insist upon democratic reforms. i am also one of those who care about the high-level product safety that affects 550 million european citizens; who care about trade imbalance, effective market access, intellectual property rights and international competition policies that affect thousands of european companies and millions of european employees; and who care about cooperation on environment protection, international environment governance and climate change that affects the whole population of the earth. because we care about all the above, we strongly support the commission and council and its presidency for addressing, negotiating and stressing continuously each one of the issues in regular dialogue with the chinese side. a simple reading of the 18-page joint statement of the last eu-china summit is enough to understand that the complexity, sensitivity and importance in the eu-china cooperation... (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you very much, mr. president. my dear officer. my fellow members of the house of representatives! we have been discussing for almost two hours yesterday the fight against the rise of extremism, the final text of the resolution, which is based on the initiative of the liberals, but we have of course taken into account the ideas and requests of all the groups. i am optimistic that we will reach a common position on this painfully important issue. i am personally very sorry that in 2007, the year of equal opportunities, we are still forced to contend with the occasional shadow of the failed dictatorships of the 20th century. we know that no member state would make an exception to this. to name just a few: in slovakia, pospolitos, in the czech republic, the young nationalists, in romania, the new right, in germany, the german national democratic party, in italy, the national alliance, but we are seeing pretty much the same extremism. speaking of my own country, i find it unacceptable that extremist parties and organisations such as jobbik or the hungarian guard make statements every day explaining the conceptually absurd gypsy crime with genetic reasons, demanding segregation instead of social integration of the roma, ghettos while marching in black uniforms on st. george's square and kerepes on fridays. in this context, i must once again draw the attention of my fellow members to the fact that the many roma farms in europe are still being targeted by extremist forces. and a refresher at the end of my speech. the hungarian ombudsmen, the president of the republic and the hungarian government have officially condemned the hungarian guard and jobbik. we ask all responsible european governments to do the same against their own extremists. to do that, i need as many of my colleagues as possible to vote in favour of the parliament's resolution on combating the rise of extremism tomorrow. thank you, sir.
thank you, mr president. i speak as one of the authors of written statement 93. the declaration, which i tabled together with my colleagues from tabajdi, szent-iván, vigenin and amezaga, condemns the activities of extremist paramilitary groups operating in the territory of the union, which is one of the most obvious forms of extremism. it has been my experience that while many feel a moral and political obligation to stop the spread of these extremist ideas, as soon as it comes to the point of being specifically condemned in a written statement or otherwise, many are paralyzed. there are several reasons for this. one is that when we try to name these ideas, the list is never complete and it's never accurate. that's gonna put a lot of people off supporting him. but one thing we should know is that the list will never be complete, the concepts and definitions will never be accurate. so we have to look at the common roots of extremism, of ideas. today, in this house, in a solemn but not undisturbed atmosphere, the charter of fundamental rights was signed. this charter sums up in paragraph 50 all the values and rights that we in the union respect and want to protect. this charter is a charter of non-discrimination, freedom of speech, religion and assembly, equality, persons and data, and protection of the young and the old. we cannot be allowed to indulge in this, to put some people before others, to use it for our short-term domestic political ends. they must be respected and protected because they guarantee the human dignity that we, as members of parliament, are sworn to uphold. the sum total of ideas and rights that are expressed here is what we call extreme, regardless of age, gender, religion, or national origin. in light of this, i would ask my colleagues to support written statement 93. thank you, sir.
mr. president, i have to go. it's not enough to just fight extremism in general. everyone must take a stand in their own country against the emerging nationalist and extremist currents. everyone should first condemn the extreme nationalists themselves and limit themselves to their own country. this is a very important requirement, and this debate shows that we must fight extremism with both direct and indirect means. hate speech must be punished by direct means. some people say that, in the name of freedom of speech, this should not be condemned by means of criminal law, but i think we have not yet found the right proportions. the democratic forces, especially the right, must set an example, and the democratic right has a great responsibility to distinguish itself from the extreme right-wing phenomena that are raging in europe. at the same time, my colleagues in the house have said that we must also respond with indirect means, because so many extremist phenomena are caused by social insecurity or by a lack of confidence in national identity. this debate is very important and i believe that commissioner frattini, the fundamental rights agency and the european parliament should progressively monitor all extremist phenomena. thank you for your attention.
in writing. there is serious concern about the strengthening of extremist movements across europe, which base their political activity on incitement of hatred against the most vulnerable groups in society, and which openly promote intolerance and social exclusion. these ideas are incompatible with european values, with the basic principles of human dignity, equality of rights and fundamental freedoms enshrined in the union's founding documents or in the charter of fundamental rights proclaimed today. these movements and the views they express are apt to strike fear in minorities as well as in the law-abiding and democratic majority of citizens. the widespread use of false generalisations and distortions of the truth by extremist groups, due to increased media interest, is not only unacceptable but also extremely dangerous, as it reinforces existing phenomena of prejudice and discrimination and makes it more difficult to solve social problems. i would also like to mention the growing phenomenon of anti-gypsyism. the roma, who number over 10 million, are the largest ethnic minority in europe and also the most vulnerable and most disadvantaged, whose situation has not only improved in recent years, but has also deteriorated in many areas. the european union and civil society organisations have a shared responsibility to find solutions to the problems of unemployment and extreme poverty and to eliminate the segregation of roma in housing and education. solving these problems is the european union's most pressing minority issue.
in writing. extremist parties in several eu member states, which are temporarily represented in the ep, cannot be elected in european politics. their suppression is a matter for the european community as a whole, even if we know that everyday racism and xenophobia lurk among citizens who are otherwise committed to democracy and human rights. young people are especially at risk, for whom not only the holocaust but also the fall of the berlin wall are history. a europe without frontiers values the sense of belonging to a nation, and it is easy to write down even the most radical ideas on the pages of young souls. and european legislation is following national steps, not preceding them, not showing the way. but the problem requires more than a political or legal response, and action must therefore be part of our objectives, but also of all civil society organisations and churches that have a european value. for example, john paul ii spoke out against racism and xenophobia on several occasions, and on one occasion he saw the role of religions as serving the cause of truth, peace among people, forgiveness, life, and love. and that's all the values that these radical groups don't, or don't, represent in an extreme way. i ask the president of the ep and the members of the commission to ask the churches in their dialogue with the churches to take action against extremism and to withdraw even their gestural support.
in writing. - mr president, i have to go. my fellow members of parliament! extremist ideas and organizations have become alarmingly common in our daily lives, and we see them almost everywhere. the idea of freedom of thought and expression was the foundation of the great ideas of european integration. these are now our core values. a true democracy also guarantees freedom of expression, but this cannot be accompanied by the disruption of the peace of others, their lives, or, as we have already reached today, their very existence. we cannot allow the ideas that once fuelled the world, the hatred between nations and peoples, to be brought back to the forums and organizations. in many places, the far right is looking for and finding in segregation and hate speech, rather than social reconciliation and integration, one of the sources of solutions to the social problems we face. the european union, as the true guarantor of human rights and the protection of humanity, must do everything possible to ensure that these ideas and organisations are repressed, if their aggressiveness, which disturbs the healthy life of society, requires it, even if they disappear from our daily lives. i also propose that the union's communication activities should give greater prominence to information. unfortunately, significant sections of the population, and this is mainly due to lack of knowledge, are susceptible to extreme populist manifestations. the younger generation is particularly at risk, as they have had no way of acquiring sufficient historical experience to be informed. it's our job to help them do that. if we give up on this, we're shaking the foundations of our future.
we have seen explosive growth in many areas in recent decades, but nothing like the growth that has occurred in global trade and the related movement of goods. maritime transport has played a key role in this explosion, accounting for 90% of the european union's external trade. as this is the most important mode of transport for its size, i think people have a legitimate expectation that this mode of transport for people and goods is also safe and clean, that the risk of accidents at sea and pollution from ships is reduced. the three major disasters that have occurred in the last month, with a combined magnitude equal to the exxon valdez spill in 1989, should be sobering. it should draw attention to the importance of prevention and effective action. the environmental damage caused by accidents like this and others like it does not stop at the borders of one country or one continent, it endangers our common values, our common natural resources, it destroys them permanently, irreparably. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers from the risks arising from the use of certain dangerous substances. it is also necessary to review immediately the international legislation in force in the area, to address the shortcomings, to prohibit the use of vessels designed for river transport and to ensure the effective application of the 'polluter pays' principle. the european union has a major responsibility to promote at international level all the measures aimed at maritime safety that have already been taken in the european union. thank you, sir.
thank you, madam president. i hope i'm being brief. as an eastern european, i'm not talking about coming from a capital-poor area, where everybody is now biting their nails at home about what will happen to the expansion of ucits with hedge funds or private equity, because it's not going to affect our region at all, at least for a few years. maybe we'll pick up something on the human side of this in the real estate market. but i might point out what i expect from the examination as a yossi. one is that banks, which very often act as distributors in this mechanism and receive very high amounts, are still being examined for some reason, because currently 60% of the total costs are the selling costs, and i note that in my region banks are already incredibly profitable. if we can get something in this, we've got a head start. the other one, the mifid inducement case, didn't say much about cost transparency either, because if you have a bank that's the fund manager and the seller, you don't know what's going on in the inhouse transaction, and interestingly, these inhouse transactions didn't really break down the different selling prices. thirdly, there are a great many activities carried out by certain member states or regulations implemented which almost tie the depositary, the fund manager and their management together. in my country, or in our countries, there are many talented young people, and they could do management work, for example, at a good price, at a very good quality, if they could, and i think that it is in everyone's interest to move this out, to have it happen in a free market. finally, there is consumer protection. training is very important indeed, i admit that, and i have to raise the issue of taxation. it is not possible that if i want to buy ucits in another country, i will be put in a more uncomfortable position than if i do so in my own country. thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe-de group . – madam president, i am glad to speak today as shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group concerning this report on the conclusion of an agreement between the european community and the council of europe on cooperation between the european union agency for fundamental rights and the council of europe. we have had long debates and a lot of questions whether there is a need for an agency; whether the council of europe can accept this; whether there will be real, useful cooperation between the two. all the time both parliament and the commission said clearly: yes, we need the agency, we see the sense of this institution and we foresee good cooperation between the council of europe and the agency. therefore i welcome the fact that, now this agreement is here, we can talk about institutionalised cooperation. on the other hand, i am sorry that we could not really improve this text by amending certain aspects, because i would have underlined the need to take into account, whenever the agency is dealing with concrete issues, all the experience, the expertise, gathered by the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, with its reporting system in its various committees, for example in the committee on legal affairs and human rights where there is excellent expertise and experience in dealing with these issues. but nevertheless i am glad, because the conclusion of this agreement is signalling the need for this body, for the agency, to start its work as soon as possible. the agency was officially inaugurated on 1 march but it still does not have its operating and management structure in place. it is imperative to proceed and improve the situation so as to go further. i have been following this dossier since the very beginning of my mandate, noting the extreme difficulties of designing its scope, area of competence and decision-making structures to the satisfaction of all actors involved. we are all concerned since the agency will gather and compile data and prepare recommendations to the institutions in the field, a remit that is hard to define in its boundaries, which is horizontal and which cross-cuts all community policies. we can only be satisfied if we create a credible and responsible agency that is entrusted with enough power and an adequate budget to cope with its task. this agreement can help this. we will ensure that any overlap of these tasks and duplication of work is avoided. let us hope that the solemn proclamation of the charter on fundamental rights today will stand as one side and the agency will stand as the other side of the same coin: a first practical step towards a future union policy on human rights and fundamental freedoms.
