thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is mór an onóir dom labhairt i mo theanga dhúchais anseo tráthnóna inniu. ba mhaith buíochas ó chroí a ghabháil le rialtaisí uilig an aontais eorpaigh agus le feisirí an tí seo as ucht a gcuid tacaíochta chun stádas oifigiúil oibre a bhaint amach don ghaeilge. tá cur chun cinn teangacha rí-thábhachtach ó thaobh forbairt iomlán a dhéanamh ar an aontas eorpach. tá ceangal láidir idir éagsúlacht chultúir agus comhoibriú eacnamaíochta san eoraip agus creidim, a uachtaráin borrell, gur éirigh leat an dá aidhm seo a bhaint amach le linn do théarma in oifig an uachtaráin. it is a great honour and privilege for me to speak as gaeilge – in my native tongue – for the first time within this parliament. i thank you, mr president, and your services in particular and also the patience and resilience of mr priestley and his staff in making this happen on this occasion. as we celebrate this historic occasion from an irish perspective, we commemorate an even greater historic occasion with the inclusion of romania and bulgaria. i welcome my new colleagues as members of parliament, as equal, participating, voting and guiding members of the european parliament in 2007. i congratulate them on their efforts to ensure that they could meet the criteria set down by the european institutions for them to be part of this wonderful process of peace, prosperity and stability. mr president, at the conference of presidents i have made my views clear to you with regard to my thanks and appreciation to you for every assistance that you have given to me, to ireland and to people from ireland who required assistance at institutional level. many of my colleagues have quoted different spanish poets. i can merely quote an old irish poet who said: ‘he came as a stranger and we saw fear, yet through his work, through his time, through his efforts, but most of all through his honesty, he became our friend and now we miss his passing, but most importantly of all, we walk in his footsteps for they lead us to greatness’. (applause)
madam president, i also wish to join with others in congratulating you on your election. the very sad and tragic situation of 462 children being infected with the hiv/aids virus in benghazi in the 1990s must not be compounded with death sentences being carried out on six people for crimes that they did not commit. two wrongs will never make a right. the decision of the libyan court of 19 december 2006 to reaffirm the death sentence of five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian medic is simply unacceptable. these sentences were handed down notwithstanding the body of international expert advice that was given to the libyan court, from the international council of nurses and from luc montagnier, the french doctor who first detected the hiv/aids virus. i have written to president gaddafi, whom i have met before, and i have urged him to reach a solution with the international community, based on humanitarian grounds, in these cases. last week in brussels i personally met with the libyan representative to the eu, sifaw hafiani, and i urged the libyan government to resolve this issue humanely and diplomatically. i do not believe, in this situation, that confrontation will work. the libyan government has also agreed to meet shortly with a delegation from the irish nurses’ organisation in brussels to discuss this case. nurses and medical staff from ireland and from europe work in hospitals all over the middle east and they face certain difficulties. i believe that this issue and this situation are only compounding those difficulties. they are deeply concerned, as is the international nurses’ organisation, about these cases and the precedent it sets for their members. i would ask everybody to work in a diplomatic way to try to resolve this situation with the libyan government. i believe that we can bring it to a satisfactory conclusion.
a uachtaráin agus ba mhaith comhghairdeas a dhéanamh leat as a bheith tofa. is ábhar áthais dom, ar an ócáid seo, mo chéad chomhrá i 2007 a thabhairt daoibh i mo theanga dhúchasach, an ghaeilge. tá áthas orm chomh maith gurb é aidhm an chéad chomhrá sin ná comhpháirtíocht a thairiscint do cheann de na ballstáit nua, an bhulgáir. níl a lán ama agam, mar sin déanfaidh mé dhá phointe ghearra. tá nath cainte againne in éirinn, 'ní neart go cur le chéile', agus sin atá i gceist againne inniu. táimid ag tabhairt tacaíochta don bhulgáir ina h-iarrachtaí ar shaoirse a bhaint amach do sheisear daoine neamhchiontacha: cúigear banaltraí agus dochtúir as an phalaistín agus iad faoi bhagairt píonós an bháis sa libia. ar an dara dul síos, áfach, tá nios mó ná tacaíocht na parlaiminte ón bhulgáir. tá ról lárnach ag an ngearmáin ina huachtaránacht, agus ag an gcomhairle chomh maith, chun dul i ngleic leis an gceist phráinneach seo. caithfidh siad úsáid a bhaint as a gcuid tionchair ar an leibhéal idirnáisiúinta chomh maith.
a uachtaráin, nuair a bhí an pharlaimint ar athló i rith na nollag agus na hathbhliana, fuair cúig bhanaltraí ón mbulgáir cathróireacht ón aontas eorpach. ag an am céanna, áfach, dúirt cúirt sa libia go raibh siad daortha chun báis. tá siad cúisithe toisc go raibh baint acu le galrú 426 paistí le hiv in ionad benghazi sa libia. is é seo an dara triail sa chás seo, tar éis rialú ón gcúirt uachtarach, ach tá a lán imní ann ó thaobh cóir agus neamhchaontacht na trialach. it is now being reported that mr gaddafi intends to use this case as a political bargaining chip. he intends, it seems, to begin talks on revising the death sentence for the bulgarian nurses on the condition that a libyan convicted for the lockerbie bombing in 1988 is released. this is nothing more than using people’s lives as political capital. the nurses have already been incarcerated for eight years and the sole purpose of this resolution must be to repeat calls for their unconditional release. the defendants now have the right to appeal against their sentences. at this final stage of trial, the scientific evidence concerning the origin and timing of the benghazi infection must be considered again without the presence of a biased or politically motivated libyan expert panel to refute claims. i strongly support the idea of nominating an eu special rapporteur to this case to monitor and scrutinise the defendants’ appeal. the reported use of torture to extract confessions from the defendants while in custody and the shameful delays during this trial process continue to be of serious concern to the eu. as libya claims to intend to develop a positive relationship and engagement with the eu, we must make it clear that we in this parliament attach significant importance to the treatment of our citizens in libya and attach the highest priority to calls for their unconditional release.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is mór an onóir dom labhairt i mo theanga dhúchais anseo tráthnóna inniu. an fiú tada an cód iompair um easpórtáil armlóin, a chairde? sin í an cheist is tábhachtaí atá le freagairt againn. faraoir, is iad na tíortha is saibhre a cheannaíonn an t-armlón is cumhachtaí. sin é an fáth go bhfuil an oiread sin armlóin sa mheán oirthear, armlón atá faighte acu ó bhallstáit an aontais eorpaigh agus ó rialtas mheiriceá. ní féidir an fhírinne a sheachaint. tá cogaí san iaráic, san iaráin, agus sa chuáit ó na h-ochtóidí. deineadh ionsaí ar an araib shádach i rith cogadh na murascáile. tá baint mhíleata ag an tsiria le hachrann na liobáine. bíodh sé ceart nó mícheart, tá blianta caite ag an iosrael i mbun troda i gcoinne fórsaí na liobáine, na siria agus na palaistíne. ach tharla sé seo ar fad toisc go raibh na tíortha seo ábalta teacht ar armlón lena n-aidhmeanna míleata and polaitiúla a bhaint amach. ba chóir d’iarthar an domhain a bheith ag iarraidh easportáil armlóin a laghdú seachas a bheith á méadú. sin é an fáth go gcaithfear an cód iompair um easpórtáil armlóin a chur i bhfeidhm níos déine. is in olcas seachas chun maitheasa atá an teannas sa mheán oirthear ag dul, de réir mar a dhíoltar breis armlóin leo.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos ba mhaith liom an tuairisc seo a thréaslú leis an tuairisceoir. níl aon dabht ná go bhfuil dul chun cinn maith déanta leis an gcód saorálach faoi easpórtáil arm. is í an fhadhb mhór a bhaineann leis, áfach, ná go bhfuil sé saorálach agus nach bhfuil dualgas dleathach ar na ballstáit cloí leis na hoibleagáidí atá ann. tá sé in am dúinn an cód seo a aistriú ina chomhbheartas eorpach. in éirinn, is oth liom a rá, níor chuir an rialtas i gcrích fós na gealltaí chun reachtaíocht 1983 faoi easpórtálaithe arm a thabhairt suas chun dáta. dá bhrí sin, tá dreasacht ag déileálaithe arm an stát a úsáid chun srianta níos láidre i dtíortha eile a sheachaint. go ginearálta, ní aontaím le coimeádaigh na breataine ach caithfidh mé a rá go n-aontaím leis an tuasal van orden nuair a deireann sé go mba chóir go mbeadh an taontas chun tosaigh ins na náisiúin aontaithe chun conradh nua faoi thrádáil arm idirnáisiúnta a bhaint amach. chun críochnú, tugaim lántacaíocht do mhír 28 faoi lánchosc arm ar an tsín. ar a laghad, ba chóir go gcoimeádfar an lánchosc sin go dtí go mbeidh dul chun cinn sásúil déanta le cearta daonna agus polaitiúla.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – maraítear os cionn 40,000 duine ar bhóithre na heorpa chuile bhliain. 'sí aidhm an choimisiúin an staitistic seo a laghdú 50% faoin mbliain 2010. tá an chumhacht chéanna ó thaobh reachtaíochta dhe ar shábháilteacht bóthair ag parlaimint na heorpa agus atá ag rialtaisí na mballstát fhéin. ba chóir do pharlaimint na heorpa lántacaíocht a thabhairt d’aidhm an choimisiúin, líon na marbh a laghdú ar na bóithre. timpistí bóthair an chúis is mó a mharaítear daoine óga idir chúig bhliana déag agus cheithre bhliana is fiche d’aois. caithfear anois comhordú a dhéanamh ag leibheál an aontais eorpaigh chun tabhairt faoi fhadhb na dtimpistí bóthair agus chun polasaí sábháilteachta bóthair a chur i bhfeidhm go dian. i measc na bpoinntí sábháilteachta is tábhachtaí tá siad seo a leanas: pionós trasteorann a ghearradh orthu siúd a bhriseann rialacha an bhóthair ar fud na heorpa; ní mór breathnú ar rialacha tráchta a bheadh ar aon fhocal i measc na mballstát uile a chur i bhfeidhm; ba chóir do na ballstáit uile an córas éigeandála e-glaoch a bheith i chuile charr, chomh luath in éirinn agus is féidir. ba chóir do chuile bhallstát reachtaíocht sábháilteacht bóthair a chur i bhfeidhm go dian dúthrachtach. iarraim ar thiománaithe iad fhéin a iompar ar bhonn cúramach, freagrach agus iad ar an stiúir. tá dualgas orainn uilig an bóthar a dhéanamh sábháilte dóibh siúd a bhaineann úsáid as.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, i would say to the commissioner that many of us have personal experience of tragedy on the roads. road safety is a constant concern to all of us and to the people we represent. i am sure we will vote for greater safety measures and that is a good thing. however, what worries me is that when our safety provisions become law, we will have a false sense of security that our roads are safer. that is not always the case. in the interests of safety, we have legislated that truck drivers must take short breaks every four hours and a long break every nine hours. however, in ireland there are very few places for trucks to park so that their drivers can rest. instead, drivers are forced to pull over on the hard shoulder, which is a very dangerous practice for the driver and for everyone using the road. the problem is that in the cause of safety, we have placed an obligation on truck drivers which in ireland they cannot comply with safely. this has happened because we did not place a corresponding obligation on governments to supply roadside rest areas, even on eu-funded roads. a new motorway that opened in my own constituency three months ago does not have a single rest area. today we are considering provisions to make roundabouts, secondary roads, and roadwork zones safer. all this is a good thing, but let us learn from the experience of the irish truck drivers and require the national governments to make the necessary adjustments to roads in order to implement these safety measures. otherwise, despite all our efforts, we will continue to be plagued by carnage on our roads.
thank you, madam president, and congratulations on your election. police cooperation on cross-border enforcement of traffic offences, accounting for 25 % of cases in some member states, either is not implemented properly or has to be carried out through complex bilateral agreements. in border areas in ireland, for example, motorists who are caught speeding on one side of the border go unpunished if their vehicles are registered on the other side. yet neither ireland nor the uk applies the 1998 european convention on driving disqualifications, despite being enacted in domestic legislation in both jurisdictions. the commission should, i believe, come forward urgently with proposals for a europe-wide enforcement of road traffic penalties, mutual recognition of penalty points, driver disqualifications and training and rehabilitation. i would also like to see a common european blood alcohol limit. my own view is that it should be no more than 50 mg. i want to refer in passing to a comment made by one of my colleagues here about trees. i would strongly oppose any proposal that trees should be cut down in order to facilitate speeding, drugged and careless drivers. i also support mrs sinnott in her view in relation to lay-bys for truck drivers, which should also be available for car drivers. i had the recent experience of a two-hour journey on the road from wexford to dublin in ireland, a road recently upgraded using substantial amounts of eu funds, and there was not a single lay-by in that two-hour journey on either side of the road. i think that is quite appalling.
a uachtaráin, ar an gcéad dul síos fáiltím roimh an tuarascáil seo ón gcoiste um iompar agus um thurasóireacht agus fáiltím chomh maith na moltaí go dtí an coimisiún. labhrann na staitisticí ar a son féin. maraítear 40 000 duine chuile bliain ar fud an aontais eorpaigh. ó théarmaí airgeadais is ionann seo agus 2% de gdp nó eur 180 000 billiún. is iad timpistí bóthar an chúis is mó le bás pháistí agus le bás dhaoine óga. más féidir le tíortha áirithe an caighdeán sábháilteachta bóthair a fheabhasú, caithfear tú fiafraí conas atá tíortha eile ag titim chun deiridh. is cúis bhróin dom é nach bhfuil mo thír dhúchais, éire, ag déanamh níos fearr ná mar atá sí i láthair na huaire. tá an chomhairle eorpach um shábháilteacht iompair ag foilsiú tuarascáil chuile cheathrú agus is maith an rud é seo mar coinníonn sé an fhadhb faoi shúil ghéar. aontaím leis na moltaí ón rappórtéir agus is iontach an tuarascáil í agus mo chomhghairdeas léi agus an moladh go mór mhór go mbeidh saghas leathchúplaíocht idir na tíortha atá ag déanamh go maith agus iad siúd atá lag a eagrú leis an aidhm go spreagfaidh sé seo na tíortha laga níos mó a dhéanamh. tá an tuarascáil an-cuimsitheach agus aontaím go hiomlán leis na moltaí atá inti. is minic a fhaigheann daoine bás i bhfeihiclí ós rud é nach raibh aon tseirbhísí tarthála in ann a fháil amach cá raibh an timpiste. creidim go mba cheart go mbeadh an córas e-glaoch éigeantach i ngach feihicle nua. ceapaim chomh maith go sábhálfaidh sé seo alán beathaí. i ndeireadh na dála is ag na rialtaisí na mballstát éagsúla atá an dualgas sábháilteachta. mar a deirtear sa tuarascáil, caithfear ceannaireacht pholaitiúil a bheith ann. fáiltím go bhfuil uachtaránacht na gearmáine ag cur béime ar shábháilteacht bóthair ina clár don uachtaránacht. tárlaíonn timpistí bóthar ach i bhformhór na gcásanna, ní timpistí a bhíonn iontu ar chor ar bith. tárlaíonn siad mar gheall ar dhrochthiomáint, ar luas agus ar alcól. an t-oideachas agus feidhmiú atá tábhachtach.
in writing. i supported amendment 65 because the council common position does not deal in a satisfactory way with the necessity to progressively adapt railway stations and rolling stock in order to ensure accessibility for disabled people and people with reduced mobility. the gradual improvement of existing infrastructure and rolling stock is absolutely necessary given the lifespan of rolling stock and infrastructure. there is also a great number of potential passengers that would be able to use rail transport if it was accessible.
mr president, i want to support the strong calls from this parliament today – and the campaign outside parliament – for a worldwide moratorium on executions to be established unconditionally through a resolution of the un general assembly. for many years, the eu has maintained as a main pillar of foreign affairs and human rights policy the objective of ending the use of the death penalty globally. we have had some success, particularly as part of our neighbourhood strategy. today’s initiative is an ambitious attempt to raise the profile of the debate on the death penalty to a un level and to have an impact on the 66 countries that have already been referred to that still use the death penalty. it is important to note that working towards achieving a moratorium on the death penalty should always be linked to achieving an eventual abolition through legislation, as previous speakers have pointed out. the pragmatic first step is a call for a moratorium, but we must always look at ways to promote abolition where possible. looking at what we can do here in the eu from a policy perspective, i would urge the council to review and update the guidelines on the death penalty, which date back to 1998, so that new elements and strategies that have developed since then can be taken into consideration. the third world congress on the death penalty, which is to be held soon in paris, may be a good opportunity to do just that. to date, the eu’s proactive policy on the death penalty has produced some positive results. for example, recently, the success of strong eu representations in peru to recent proposals to extend the death penalty to that country, in violation of the peruvian constitution and the american convention on human rights, needs to be acknowledged and welcomed. the eu stance did have an impact on the peruvian congress in its rejection of draft legislation. so the eu has shown that it can be a key influence on national policy towards the death penalty, and we should not be afraid to use that influence.
thar ceann ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá dualgas ar an aontas eorpach a bheith ina gceannródaithe agus dul i ngleic leis na fadhbanna a chothaíonn athrú aeráide. i measc na gcéimeanna a chaithfear a chur i bhfeidhm, tá siad seo a leanas: úsáid fuinnimh inmharthana inathnuaite a mhéadú san eoraip; laghdú 20% ar a laghad a dhéanamh ar sceitheadh co2 san eoraip; barántas a thabhairt go mbeidh muide san eoraip i bhfad níos éifeachtaí ó thaobh ídiú fuinnimh de. tá muid ag cur an iomarca fuinnimh amú inár dtithe agus inár gcomhlachtaí ó lá go lá. caithfidh an taontas eorpach chuile fhóram idirnáisiúnta a úsáid chun a chinntiú go dtabharfaidh tíortha uile an domhain mhóir tacaíocht dár n-iarrachtaí. caithfear ceannasaíocht a ghlacadh ar an bhfadhb seo láithreach. tá seacht mballstát is fiche san aontas eorpach anois, rud a thugann ról lárnach, tábhachtach dúinn inár gcath in aghaidh athrú aeráide. tá deireadh le briathra, caithfear gníomhú. agus mar fhocal scoir, tá ról againne uile san fhadhb seo a réiteach. caithfidh muid athruithe nósmhaireachta a chur i bhfeidhm sa bhaile agus inár dtithe féin agus mar a deireann muid sa ngaeilge: 'ní hé lá na gaoithe lá na scolb'. tá brón orm faoin mbriseadh isteach sin a tharla níos túisce.
mr president, i listened very carefully to what minister gabriel said, because the headlines in the irish papers today state: ‘germany fights eu limits on car emissions’. the papers go on to state that ‘german chancellor angela merkel pledged to fight “with full vigour” the plans to introduce across-the-board limits on co2 emissions from cars …’. my two minutes does not allow me to continue. you have a big pr exercise, minister, if what you say is accurate rather than that which the german president of the council says. therefore, please sort out the confusion that exists there at the moment, particularly as chancellor merkel’s address at the start of the german presidency was excellent and most encouraging in this particular area, and she has guaranteed that this issue will take high priority on the summit agenda in march. we need greater political ownership of this debate. the real problem is – and i say this through the chair to our commissioner as well as to the minister – that we have left it to our officials and our diplomats. yes, nairobi was ‘a step forward’ in preparing the ground. that is what you said. but it was a baby’s step forward, a tortuous step forward: hardly an improvement on what had been agreed in montreal. it makes no sense for thousands of us from hundreds of countries to meet once a year, use up carbon and fly to all sorts of locations to sit and argue mainly about what should be on the agenda, then leave again after up to two weeks, only to come back 12 months later to pick up the argument about the agenda that we had left 12 months earlier! if what we say and all the reports from economists, ngos, environmentalists and eminent scientists are right – and they are right, 99% of the community agree they right – then we must take the highest political ownership of the resolution of the problem. that is at summit level: not only at summit meetings, but also at the cops and the mops and in nairobi and wherever else we meet. we must drive it upstairs to prime-ministerial and head-of-state level throughout the 12 months of the year, and not just the annual meeting at the united nations convention on climate change or the kyoto mop meeting. we need political ownership at the highest level. drive the agenda, please.
mr president, this is a golden opportunity to overcome europessimism by showing citizens the added value of our sovereign states sharing power to address the global problem of climate change, about which they are all seriously concerned. however, decisions must be made transparently and democratically so that we can see who is pressing to have decisions deferred. later decisions will be too late on this issue. we must pool our resources, adopt common rules and regulations and the necessary penalties to guarantee implementation. hard political decisions must be made on taxation, renewable energy, fuel efficiency and cleaner technologies that will revolutionise our industries and our consumption. indeed, why not benchmark the national infrastructure programmes which in many cases the european union is funding? i would also argue that we must beware false prophets, like the nuclear industry, which claim to be the answer to this problem.
mr president, yesterday’s commission green paper on second-hand smoke asserts that comprehensive smoking bans are the best way to tackle this serious danger to health. i agree. there are nearly five million tobacco-related deaths worldwide, but governments still fail to implement tobacco control policies that are known and proven to work. tobacco companies have seriously thwarted efforts to protect health. at this very moment, the british american tobacco website downplays the serious risks of second-hand smoke, saying that if there is any risk it is too small to measure. second-hand smoke causes 79 000 deaths a year in the eu; statistics show that passive smoking causes one death every working day in the hospitality sector: is that too small to measure? i think not! furthermore, a recent study by the harvard school of public health found that tobacco companies had increased the nicotine hit in their cigarettes by 11% between 1995 and 2005. this study found that cigarettes had been redesigned to increase the number of puffs per unit, thereby increasing the nicotine intake of the smoker. this disturbing evidence comes as no surprise. tobacco companies have lied consistently down the years about the danger of their products. anything less than an outright ban would mean failing to protect those most vulnerable and exposed to serious risks, and this parliament has a duty to promote and protect the health of our citizens.
i want to thank mrs ries for her work on this report. many important things have been said about choosing the right diet and living a more active lifestyle, so i will just mention a few of the less obvious but no less important factors in obesity. msg, which is now in many savoury snacks and processed foods, is increasingly being linked to obesity, especially when eaten by children in their early years of development. similarly, aspartame, an artificial sweetener found in many sweet processed foods, is linked with appetite disturbance. ironically, aspartame found in many foods labelled ‘diet’ or ‘lite’ can make those who ingest it want to eat more. both are synthetic chemicals that work by exciting the taste buds. these flavour enhancers can also dull the taste buds, making natural un-enhanced foods unattractive. lack of sleep in children and teenagers has also been identified by a major recent uk study as a primary cause of obesity because of the effect it has on hormones and on metabolism, and a secondary cause because feeling tired encourages kids to snack and discourages them from being physically active.
in writing. earlier this week i called on the irish government to bring forward proposals which will have the effect of totally banning television adverts of food and drink products that are high in fat, salt and sugar and which specifically target children under the age of 16. child obesity is a serious problem in ireland and in europe and this problem must be effectively tackled head-on. a ban such as that to which i am referring is being introduced in britain after four years of extensive research and consultation. this research included 2000 interviews with children, parents and teachers as well as details of family eating habits drawn from a panel of 11 000 people. this research clearly found that television advertising does have an effect on the dietary preferences of children. it is estimated by the british government that in households where children’s viewing includes a large number of programmes targeted at adults as well as at children and young people, children would see 41% fewer adverts of food and drink products that are high in fat, salt and sugar. we are talking about the protection of our children, and that must be our overriding interest at all times.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i should like to speak briefly in support of this motion from the ppe-de group and the alde group. darfur should be a priority debate in parliament this week and we believe it would be a missed opportunity to delay that debate and resolution until next month. what continues to happen in darfur is an international scandal in humanitarian terms. the council has today released its conclusions on sudan and the un human rights council is trying to get an assessment mission into darfur as we speak, so the international focus is on darfur right now. this parliament should also be having its say. that is why the ppe-de group and, i believe, the alde group are so insistent on a debate as well as a resolution this week.
mr president, today i would like to link two issues together. first of all, the comments from president barroso with regard to the holding of referenda on the draft constitution. his inference was that countries might consider not holding referenda. well, coming from a country where a referendum must be held on these issues, i find this extremely puzzling to say the least. on the one hand we have commissioner wallström talking about plan ‘d’ for democracy and dialogue and debate and engaging our citizens; on the other hand we have the comments from president barroso. at the end of the day, are we supposed just to inform and consult and debate and discuss with our citizens, but not to trust them when it comes to voting? the other issue i wish to highlight is that a bill is currently being debated in the irish parliament that would give sweeping and retrospective powers to ministers to create indictable offences in order to comply with european legislation. in this context, the directly-elected irish parliament would be bypassed. so, on the one hand we are bypassing citizens; on the other hand bypassing national parliaments. i have to say, as a committed european, i think these are worrying times for the eu.
mr president, i wish to raise the event last week in paris where the international treaty to outlaw enforced disappearances by governments was opened for signature. fifty-seven states signed it and i congratulate them. i regret that my own country, ireland, was not among them. over 50 000 people have been disappeared by governments over the last 25 years. forty thousand of them are still missing and their families do not know if they are dead or alive. it is astonishing to me that only eight eu member states signed last week, given that it was agreed last november, following five years of negotiations and a twenty-year campaign. there are also worrying reports that the united states and some eu member states are going to refuse to sign this treaty. the reason i am raising it here, mr president, is that i would ask you to have the commission and the council clarify in this house that all eu member states are committed to this treaty and will sign it without delay.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i very much welcome the commission's strategy and revised framework waste directive. we complain all the time of the lack of engagement between the european union and its citizens. through this legislative proposal the eu is demonstrating its leadership and assistance to member states, addressing the snowballing problem of waste and its environmental and health impact, while further jump-starting a sector that is already providing upwards of two million jobs. as our economies modernise in our respective countries across the union, we are simultaneously producing 1.3 billion tonnes of waste annually, some 40 million tonnes of which is hazardous. decoupling waste generation from economic growth is vital, otherwise, according to the oecd, we face, at our current rate, the generation of 45% more waste than in 1995. prevention is key, and to succeed in this we need to involve all stakeholders, producers and consumers. member states will now be obliged to provide waste-management and waste-prevention plans, focusing policymakers at eu, national and local level on prevention, thereby triggering an increase in waste-prevention policies. i welcome the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety calling for binding targets to stabilise waste production at anticipated 2008 levels by 2012 and calling for greater reuse and recycling to reduce pressure on landfill sites. we need to engage with the citizens – producers and consumers are equally important. we need to make citizens aware of their current and possible future impact in the reduction, reuse and recycling of waste. community and local authority recycling facilities need to be practically located and accessible for maximum impact. our citizens are becoming more conscious of the environment and it is up to us, the politicians, to lead them. the success of the plastic-bag levy in ireland is an obvious example. now we need to work together to make prevention a success.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, whatever the irish government may say, irish people do not want to incinerate their rubbish. we are willing to reduce, reuse and recycle. in the past, ireland has been reliant on landfill as its only option. this is changing, but even now provisions for recycling are patchy and poor in most areas. with the exception of small in-house units, we have no incinerators in ireland and consequently, our levels of dioxins are among the lowest in europe. but now major incinerator companies circle ireland like vultures. it will not help if we legitimise incineration by changing our definition of recovery. if we do not remain clear that incineration is disposal of the worst kind and is unsustainable, my country, ireland, will take the easy way out, resulting in long-term harm. i therefore reject any of the amendments that want to change definitions and i want to congratulate mr blokland on taking a very positive and strong strategy on recycling.
madam president, i agree with mrs jackson that her five-step waste hierarchy sends out clear signals to member states on waste prevention and management legislation, and that she has allowed enough wriggle room so that the environment will always be the winner in waste policy and that member states take full account of the principles of the precautionary approach and sustainability, together with other criteria covering the ecological, economic and social impacts, when applying the five-step waste hierarchy in a carbon-efficient way. i believe that recovery needs to be unambiguously defined, although there may still be further fine tuning needed after we vote tomorrow, and that the energy efficiency criteria (which should be in the annex) to determine whether municipal waste incinerators should be classified as recovery or disposal operations are a realistic and logical contribution to europe’s waste and energy challenges. i agree that it is of critical importance for the environment and for human health that municipal waste incinerators conform to gold standards and use best available technology. the debate is ongoing as to whether the efficiency criteria should be included or not, and at what levels they should be set. waste is a resource and an energy source, and we must not exclude ways to use it as such after the five-step hierarchy. the wording of the commission text and that of the latest ppe-de group amendment referred to energy efficiency criteria as being ‘equal to or above’ the stated levels. this amendment will ensure that we will not prejudice further legislation or future legislation, such as a potential waste incineration directive, making criteria even stricter if needs be. i should like to thank mrs jackson and mr blokland.
mr president, in the one minute allocated to me i shall make four brief points. firstly, i support the five-stage hierarchy of waste, but flexibility should only be on a case-by-case basis, otherwise we run the risk that this approach may mean everything and nothing at the same time. secondly, i agree with the rapporteur that we should only use the comitology process for technical purposes and that we should move to codecision processes in articles 5, 11 and 21. thirdly, i believe that waste incineration should not be reclassified as a recovery operation but remain as a disposal operation. to do otherwise would undermine the principle of prevention, reuse and recycling. however, this should not blind us to the fact that dioxins are produced from many other sources, from barbecues to fireworks to open fires. finally, with regard to illegal cross-border dumping of rubbish in ireland, lest anyone in parliament be misled, let me say to my colleague, mr allister: it goes both ways. illegal waste dumping knows no borders and it is most certainly not one-way traffic; greater vigilance is needed on both sides of the border.
mr president, i oppose the proposal to reclassify incineration as recovery rather than disposal: such a move will encourage incineration rather than reduction, recovery and reuse. i welcome the idea that we should stabilise waste production by 2012 at 2008 levels. this will be difficult for a number of member states, not least my own, where waste – domestic waste in particular – has increased by 44% over the last 10 years. the environmental protection agency in ireland has pointed out that something like 25% of domestic waste in ireland is unaccounted for and we know that the commission is already investigating a number of illegal dumps in ireland where this domestic waste – and some industrial waste also – is going. there is a serious need to police the regulations we put in place: it is not enough to have laws in place, we have to police them and ensure that penalties are sufficient to deter dumping of this kind.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, maidir leis na rialacha seo atá curtha i dtoll a chéile ag an aontas eorpach, ceapaimse nach raibh go leor machnaimh ag baint leo, mar nach mbaineann siad ach leis na seacht mballstát is fiche san aontas - agus sin an fhadhb. dúit an coimisinéir barrot ansin go mbaineann siad leis an iompar trasatlantach, ach má eitlíonn duine ó nua eabhrac go haerfort na sionainne in éirinn beidh an té sin in ann a gcuid buidéal dí agus a gcumhráin a cheannaigh siad i siopa saor ó dhleacht i nua eabhrac a iompar abhaile leo. ach má eitlíonn an duine sin ó nua eabhrac trí aerfort londain agus ansin ar aghaidh go dtí an tsionainn bainfear uathu i londain na buidéil a cheannaigh siad saor ó dhleacht i nua eabhrac. níl an córas ag obair. glacann aerfort frankfurt seilbh ar fhiche tonna leacht saor ó dhleacht chuile sheachtain, agus tógann aerfort schiphol in amsterdam 1 600 lítear leacht saor ó dhleacht chuile lá. tá sé dochreidte. caithfidh an taontas eorpach socrú a dhéanamh le haerfoirt lasmuigh den aontas chun an córas slándála céanna a chur i bhfeidhm. agus d'fhéadfadh an taontas é seo a dhéanamh trí athbhreithniú a dhéanamh ar na rialacha seo gan mhoill. ba chóir don aontas socrú a dhéanamh láithreach le meiriceá, le ceanada agus leis an astráil, mar shampla, chun na rialacha slándála céanna a chur i bhfeidhm agus an córas a chur ina cheart.
mr president, could the commissioner tell me how lipstick could seriously be a security risk or a dangerous weapon? could we have some common sense applied to this issue? several decades ago, the opponents of european integration claimed that the policies of the european institutions at the time led to wasteful butter mountains and wine lakes. the imagery associated with this catch-cry created an unfair and damaging negative perception of the eu when it was in its infancy. the new mountains and lakes imagery, which is likely to feed euro-scepticism today, can be seen in europe’s airports, where massive volumes of duty free are being confiscated every day from transit air passengers as a direct consequence of the new aviation security measures, signed off behind closed doors without democratic accountability and introduced on 6 november 2006. under these regulations, as my colleague said, 20 tonnes of duty free products are confiscated every week from passengers travelling through frankfurt airport, 1 500 litres of alcohol and perfume daily at amsterdam’s schiphol airport and 10 000 items every week from transit passengers at madrid’s barajas airport. it therefore comes as no surprise that these actions are causing immense frustration and annoyance to those affected, who blame the eu for their personal financial losses. it is legalised robbery! but the story does not end there: fear of having duty free purchases confiscated has meant that increasing numbers of air travellers have stopped buying goods at third country airside retail shops. this will spell economic disaster for european businesses, as many of these non-eu duty free outlets are owned by european companies, such as ireland’s aer rianta international, which has outlets all over the middle east, russia and canada. ireland has a particular interest in this issue: after all, we invented duty free shopping in the first place, and duty free outlets throughout the world have provided a valuable showcase for selling iconic irish products which have contributed significantly to the irish economy, such as irish whiskey and baileys. i would not support any change in a policy which would undermine the safety of our airports or airlines. however, common sense should prevail, and i urge the commissioner to enter into bilateral agreements with countries in which airport security is at least as good as that which exists at european … (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, first of all, i agree with the security measures. it is fine to talk about citizens’ rights, but safety is of paramount importance, and the most fundamental right of any passenger is the right to, and the guarantee of, travel safety. i genuinely believe that the people who are talking most and criticising the regime in place would be the very first in here if we had another 9/11. but there is a problem, commissioner, because every single day thousands and thousands of litres of duty free alcohol, perfumes and make up are confiscated, as has been said, from transit air passengers arriving at eu airports. these passengers have broken no law whatsoever in bringing these products into the eu – products that can be found in any high street shop in any part of the uk, ireland or elsewhere in the eu. they are confiscated because of the aviation security rules that were introduced on 6 november, and this has resulted in significant falls in sales. many of these items being confiscated are well known nationwide. we are talking about, for example, worldwide brands, which include, as has been said, irish whiskey and scotch whisky, french perfume, finnish vodka and spanish wine; i could go on. furthermore, many of the third country duty free outlets are european. as has been said by my colleague mrs doyle, ireland’s aer rianta owns shops in the united states, russia, canada and the gulf states among others. germany’s heinemann owns duty free shops in turkey, south africa and the balkans. spain’s aldeasa group has duty free outlets in south america. however, solving the transfer passenger problem is relatively simple, as has been said by my scottish colleague. the travel retail industry and producers have proposed that airports with large passenger flows into europe introduce the same airport and airport retail supply chain security that exists in the eu. once recognised by the eu, this would allow passengers departing from these airports and transferring at an eu airport to use a standard tamper-evident bag, just as passengers do within the eu itself. mutual recognition of airport security standards between the eu and non-eu countries is the solution. will the commission consider taking action along these lines as a matter of urgency?
thar ceann ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá tú i do bhall den teach seo le fada anois agus tá tú ar dhuine de na baill is mó a bhfuil taithí aige ar obair an tí seo. thug tú riamh, agus tabharfaidh, tacaíocht láidir d'institiúid na parlaiminte ag leibhéal na heorpa agus ar an stáitse idirnáisiúnta. chuir tú polasaí polaitiúil uaillmhianach don dá bhliain go leith atá romhainn amach os ár gcomhair anseo inniu. tá tacaíocht iomlán tugtha ag mo ghrúpa polaitíochta don iarracht pholaitiúil riamh agus is mar sin a bheidh amach anseo. mr president, today is a day that we should reflect on where we have come from, but also give a vision for the future. i think that in your speech to us today, you presented not only a report card of the past, but also a clear pathway to the future. you raised a number of points in your speech that so far none of my colleagues has touched on. the first, which is in one sense the most impressive of all, is the fact that the president of the council, chancellor merkel, and the president of the commission, president barroso, have shown you and this house the respect to be here today to share in this occasion. it reflects well on you obviously as a german to have your leader here, but reflects still more so on this house that angela merkel has taken the time to be here with us, despite all the work and efforts that she is soon to take on as president of the council. i think it behoves us to respond to that, not just because of the presence of the office holders, but most importantly of all because of the responsibility which the voters of the european union have placed on us as their advocates and their voices. sometimes that brings us into conflict with the ideals of the technicians of the establishment of a new european union. sometimes it brings us into conflict with the demands of member state governments. but our one sacred duty as a parliament is to be that voice, to be the voice of reason, to be the voice of peace, to be the voice of vision, but most importantly of all, to be the voice for the voices. we must remember those who have been lost or forgotten by our societies and ensure that they can be brought forward towards that new future and given that new opportunity. in your speech today, mr president, the one thing i thought was fantastic – and it is the first time that i have heard it from anybody in this house with such real sincerity – was what you said about the role of young people within europe: your idea of having a new programme for young people, a prize for young people, to allow the new generation to appreciate and understand what we already can understand from our own history. as my colleagues rightly said, we speak about america’s defeat of communism and nazism. they played a role. let us not deny that europe would have died without american assistance in the 1940s. let us not forget that europe would have died without american assistance in 1918. let us not forget that, without the assistance of the us in the 1960s and 70s, we would have been under constant and immediate threat from further war and violence. but, let us not also forget that those men and women of vision – whether it was in solidarity in poland, the hungarian uprising, the spring revolution, the velvet revolution or pope john-paul ii – all brought a belief in the dignity of human beings, the dignity of difference and the right for people to speak up and to be free in all walks of life. that not only defeats totalitarianism, it defeats all ills which face humankind today and that is why your idea of a cultural dialogue, of an understanding of different faiths and traditions is so important for the future development of europe. if you read about us, europe does not present a threat to anybody, of any faith or of none. indeed, in a lot of ways we tend to become so liberal that we forget about pluralism. we forget about understanding some people who have strongly-held beliefs of a non-violent nature and tend to hound them out of office or out of positions, but at the same time, we can show accommodation to those that have a fairly radical viewpoint in life and give them a space for themselves. the last two points i would like to make are in relation to the comments made by some colleagues and by the presidents of both the commission and the council in relation to the development of european policy in the future. maybe i am misinterpreting what the people are saying, but european citizens are fed up with the nitty-gritty talk about institutional change and reforms. what european citizens want to see is action; what european citizens want to see is a positive response to the problems that face us. we have had some progress towards tackling climate change, social policy and other issues of importance in the single market, but citizens want to see action being taken on a real level that affects their lives in real ways, rather than mere reaction to problems when they arise. too often in this parliament we look back and say ‘that was done wrong in 1979’ or ‘this was done wrong in 1992’ or something else was done wrong in 1997 or ‘we missed an opportunity’. let us not forget that politics is an art, whereas economics is a science and you get the right result every time if you use the right formula. politics is an art because it must respond to the needs of society, to the wants and desires of people and, more importantly of all, to the volatility of society as a whole. lastly, the most pressing task that we have before us in creating a fairer area of peace and understanding is in the middle east. i applaud your desire to visit lebanon, palestine and israel and to start to build that process. europe must be re-involved at a central level in finding the solution to peace in the middle east. i would just like to say to you, mr president, for the next two and a half years, despite the travails that we have brought against you and even though rough winds will blow on your face, you should always realise that you have the support of this house at your back. (applause)
in writing. we and the fianna fail delegation in the ep have voted in favour of a stronger commission proposal on waste favouring the five-stage hierarchy with the essential emphasis on prevention and reduction of waste, followed by reuse, recycling, recovery and then the safe and environmentally sound disposal of waste in this order of priority. we have voted in favour of calling for binding targets for member states to stabilise waste production at anticipated 2008 levels by 2012 and support the ep call for greater reuse and recycling to reduce pressure on landfill sites, for member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that, where practicable, all waste undergoes recovery operations, to take measures to promote recycling and to set up collection schemes of different streams, to move towards a recycling society by 2020 where 50 % of our municipal solid waste should be recycled in addition to biowaste and industrial waste. the issue of the distinction between recovery and disposal is a very important one. we have voted in favour of amendments that clearly distinguish between recovery and disposal and have voted against amendments that would reclassify units from disposal to recovery.
in writing. i supported the jackson report today because it encompassed the thrust of the environment committee’s progressive stance on waste prevention and management. i am particularly satisfied that the european parliament has rejected the commission’s proposal to re-brand municipal waste incinerators based on certain criteria. sinn féin supports those communities in ireland fighting against the imposition of dangerous incinerators onto their communities. the jackson report sends out a clear signal that the european parliament supports the principles of a recycling society – member states should do so too. the inclusion of the five-step waste hierarchy plan and the insistence on obliging member states to provide waste prevention plans are also welcome. i regret that clearer and more ambitious targets were not included, however.
ionadaí don údar. – ba mhaith liom ceist a chur ar an gcoimisinéir, an bhfuil i gceist aige agus ag an gcoimisiún níos mó gearradh siar a dhéanamh ar an dleacht a chuirtear ar tháirgí feola a thagann isteach san aontas eorpach chun an margadh trádála domhanda a luaigh sé a bhaint amach?
madam president, i fully support the rapporteur in rejecting these proposals. in effect, these proposals would mean the transfer of 20 % of funds from direct payments and market support of the cap to rural development. i fully support investment in rural development; indeed, i think it is crucial if rural areas are to contribute to the lisbon agenda. but this investment cannot come out of the pockets of farmers. commissioner, you said earlier tonight that you were afraid of the dangers to rural development if we reject this proposal. but what of the dangers to agriculture if this proposal were to proceed? and, speaking of the pockets of farmers, this proposal would be a drastic cut in some farmers’ incomes. if we take the initial amount of the direct payments to farmers at 100 %, take away 5 % for compulsory modulation, a further 8 % approximately for the accession of romania and bulgaria – who are in no way responsible for the fact that we did not make proper funding provision – and if you are then to take a further 20 % for voluntary modulation, those farmers will have lost approximately 33 %, – one third – of their income as was promised in the cap reform. but this is not just about money. voluntary modulation as proposed would distort competition between member states. it would, in effect, be a renationalisation of the cap and, in my opinion, jeopardise the security of food production in the eu. commissioner, i know we both agree that agriculture needs stability. when you came to the irish parliament last year you said, ‘i wish to give farmers in ireland and the rest of the eu as much stability as possible’. but this is a difficult and uncertain time for farmers. if they were just to listen to today’s debates in parliament, with commissioner mandelson speaking earlier of further flexibility in the context of the wto and, tonight, the possibility of the renationalisation of cap, they would be even more uncertain. this house and european farmers are relying on the commission to support them on this issue. you told us that you know and understand our concerns. those concerns have been articulated very clearly here tonight and we await a positive response.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, the large number of contributions to this debate shows how important the issue of voluntary modulation seems to be to all of you. i agree that the proposal on voluntary modulation has to be seen in the broader context, which is about the whole financing of the common agricultural policy in general and the rural development policy in particular. voluntary modulation certainly is not the best tool to achieve the strengthening of the second pillar. i agree on that. but as i have stressed during the debate today, efforts are being made to try and accommodate the concerns that have been raised in the european parliament. these efforts will be pursued in the coming days and weeks, as i spelled out in my introduction. the commission is prepared to make its bid to ensure that the result achieved takes into account as many of the concerns that have been raised as possible. i hope that we will be able to achieve a compromise.
in writing. – i get the impression sometimes that the commission seems to dislike the cap and would like to see the end of it sooner or later. i would remind the commission that the cap agreement is in place until 2013. as it is, the mandatory levels of modulation are already causing hardships in rural areas of my constituency. this proposal implies the re-nationalisation of agricultural policy, however, it takes no account of the fact the direct payments will then be at the discretion of member states, with no way to monitor the spending of funds. also, the proposal does not provide for any alternatives to farming, nor does it contain a procedure to ensure that a farmer’s competitive position will not deteriorate disproportionately. in some countries, taking money from agriculture and giving it to rural areas may work, but in many parts of ireland agriculture is the basis of rural life. without agriculture, the men and women in rural ireland experience depopulation or are forced to tolerate polluting industries to provide jobs and keep people in the area. in ireland, the more money we move from agriculture to rural, the more we damage both. an impact assessment would have predicted this. (written statement abbreviated in accordance with rule 142(7))
mr president, some people are arguing that we should all support this report because otherwise we are not standing up for human rights. i have to say that i completely and totally disagree with that. i oppose flights of extraordinary rendition anywhere, but i cannot support this report because i believe many of its conclusions are politically motivated. let us be clear. we are talking about conclusions and not findings. this is not an evidence-based report. for example, reference to 147 suspected flights into ireland or 300 flights into germany is totally unsubstantiated. if these conclusions were presented before any court as factual evidence, they would be thrown out of court because they would be found to be both inaccurate and speculative. the european parliament should remember that many of the things in this report are conclusions and not findings. for a report to conclude that all cia flights should be banned in ireland and not be banned in any of the other 26 member states, lacks perspective and is another clear example of how politically motivated this report has become. this report does not look forward. it even fails to call for a review of the 60-year-old chicago international convention. however, i do have an amendment on that. some people are saying we should come back in six months’ time with proposals. if we have proposals they should be in the report today. i believe that this report is full of conclusions and not findings, and very unfortunately i will be voting against it.
mr president, i wish to thank mr fava for an excellent report and his diligent concern to be fair and balanced. all 785 of us have a responsibility to demonstrate that our treaty commitments to human rights are not just rhetoric. we have established that some member states’ authorities, unfortunately including ireland, are colluding in a breach of human rights. if we do not loudly shout ‘stop’, our people will believe they are on their own and that would be disastrous for the cohesion and indeed the future of our democracies. we are not talking about history, nor do we lack evidence. we have it straight from president bush that he will continue with extraordinary renditions and with secret detention centres. member states, the commission and the council have an obligation to take on board our one hundred or more recommendations on getting to the full truth, preventing abuse of human rights and torture and ensuring our intelligence services are accountable to our parliaments. to be successful in countering terrorism, we have to defend our democratic and our humanitarian values, not abandon them as too costly or inconvenient. otherwise we concede victory to those who want to destroy those self same values. finally, i want to urge members in particular to reject amendment 38 from the uen group, which seeks to create the fiction that the problem is an outdated chicago convention. the problem is a failure by member states to actually implement the chicago convention.
a point of order, mr president. there is a ppe-de amendment on paragraph 125 that i have tabled. it is amendment 258 and you seem to have skipped over it. i would appreciate it if we could take a vote on that amendment.
mr president, on a point of order, even the interpreters cannot keep up with you. would you please slow down. there are people making mistakes in the voting. please! (applause)
in writing. the irish members of the fine gael delegation voted in favour of the report as a whole, as we support the general thrust of the report and its strong stance against the process of extraordinary rendition and the involvement of eu countries or airports in that process. however, i would like it noted that we do not agree in full with the wording of paragraph 125 of the report. i attempted to delete paragraph 125, but was unsuccessful in doing so (the vote was narrowly lost). that being said, the majority of the report is worth supporting, as a strong statement against the process of extraordinary rendition, as a breach of international law. therefore, we have voted in favour of the report as a whole.
in writing. today’s report by mr fava raises some critical issues which are about the core fundamental rights of everybody in europe and across the world. the report paints a shocking picture of human rights abuse and illegal activity, all of which was tolerated by member states including ireland. the irish government’s hear-no-evil, see-no-evil approach to illegal renditions is unconvincing and unacceptable. the report points out that at least 147 cia-operated flights made stopovers in irish airports including by aircraft involved in ‘extraordinary renditions’ or kidnappings as we would normally call them. now all of us who seek the truth about these kidnappings must take this issue to our national parliaments and directly challenge the national governments at home in our countries. the real pressure must be applied at home where the people who permitted and tolerated these actions will feel it. to this end, i am calling on the government to launch a full parliamentary inquiry in the dáil immediately into the use of irish territory as part of the cia rendition circuit. sinn féin supported the report to lend our weight in the european parliament to this call.
in writing. while i supported the resolution, the eu needs to take additional initiatives to address climate change shop shelves are full of low value, perishable goods that have been transported tens of thousands of miles to satisfy consumer pricing expectations. the carbon footprint left behind by this form of global trading is colossal. i am therefore calling for the introduction of a “carbon labelling” system, which would give consumers the information to make responsible and wise choices.
in writing. sinn féin believes the passenger name record (pnr) agreement should not be entered into lightly or behind closed doors. the pnr agreement forms part of the so-called 'war on terror' and will infringe the civil liberties of irish citizens. eu member states should not allow themselves to be bullied into applying an agreement which fails to guarantee the data protection rights of its citizens. ireland should take the lead within the eu council in demanding a more acceptable agreement. i am calling on the government to amend the proposed agreement before its adoption to ensure that at a minimum: the annual joint review includes a requirement for an evaluation of the agreement covering both the detail of its operation and also its effectiveness against its stated objective of 'fighting terrorism'; and that any change in us, eu or irish data protection provisions relevant to the operation of the agreement would prompt an immediate and transparent renegotiation of the agreement requiring further approval by both houses of the oireachtas."
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, terrorist acts are always criminal, but terrorism is also always a political project. i think its current manifestation aims to subvert the humanitarian values of equality, whether it be between gender, religion or nationality. it also seeks to undermine civil rights – the civil rights of a plural democracy. but we have to be very careful in expressing those values. if we choose to call them ‘our’ values rather than treating them as universal values, i think we will fall into the trap of the ‘clash of civilisations’. our best defence of those values, therefore, has to be primarily political. we must demonstrate the strength of those values by ensuring freedom and quality of life for all in europe and globally. security measures certainly have to be applied: the collection of intelligence, the prosecution of lawbreakers and, indeed, the prevention and prosecution of incitement to hatred and violence. but the fava report, which we spent a long time discussing this morning, indicates what can go badly wrong if we are not extremely careful. we have to avoid simplistic analysis. we have to avoid the assumption that every political or religious fundamentalist is a terrorist – that is simply not true, and i think it is important that we bear that in mind. i know lots of fundamentalist catholics who would be appalled at the idea that anybody would commit a terrorist act in their name. i would appeal for deeper analysis than we are currently getting, and caution about the language we are using. i would argue that, if we are going to be successful, we have to deal with inequalities on our continent, but also inequalities globally as well.
the president of the council. i shall gladly take up the proposal again. it is an important suggestion not to ignore the positive developments in the european union which have led to positive results, but to find out whether they would not also be appropriate for one's own country, because similar structures exist. i would also like to take this suggestion home to our federal minister, mrs von der leyen, who is currently president of the council for family, women, youth and the elderly.
the president of the council. the decision to designate 2007 as the european year of equal opportunities for all was adopted by the european parliament and the council in 2006. the council agreed that the various measures to be taken at european and national level should cover all the grounds of discrimination referred to in article 13 of the treaty and address them in a balanced manner, involving all those concerned. in the negotiations with the european parliament, the council agreed to the explicit mention of the roma population in the decision on the european year of equal opportunities. the text contains a recital which addresses the situation of roma in europe and in which the european parliament points to the widespread spread of anti-roma sentiment and its discriminatory impact on the employment, education and social services opportunities of the most disadvantaged ethnic minority group in the european union. however, it should be borne in mind that the work of the european year of equal opportunities 2007 is based on the principles of ownership and subsidiarity. each member state is therefore responsible for the measures it implements in the coming months.
the president of the council. i'm sorry, but i have to go. in the context of subsidiarity, the member states are indeed responsible. the large number of progress reports produced in the context of the accession of the eastern european member states has also addressed the issue of minorities in many ways, and in particular the situation of the roma in all its aspects. it is important to keep this in mind. on the other hand, there are also opportunities to promote the integration of the roma population through programmes, including with the participation of the world bank. i believe that this is an issue that cannot be solved by the member states alone, but that the support of others is also necessary to achieve the integration of these populations.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. all the measures taken on the spot are the responsibility of the member state. there is no way for the council to make any specifications here. in certain areas, for example the anti-discrimination directive, certain measures can certainly be taken, but this is ultimately a decision of the member state and not a task that can be assessed from the european side.
the president of the council. the european union emissions trading system is one of the most important policy instruments available to the european community and its member states to achieve their kyoto targets in the most cost-effective manner. as the honourable member knows, directive 2003/87 requires member states to publish their national allocation plans. they must submit them to the commission and the other member states at least 18 months before the start of the first commitment period of the kyoto protocol, namely 2008-2012. the commission has assessed the national allocation plans of the member states. the presidency will continue its review of the european union's emissions trading system on the basis of the commission's communication identifying the priority issues to be addressed. the presidency will also continue to follow up the proposal to include air transport in this system. the presidency will work to ensure that the emissions trading system delivers the expected contribution to the kyoto targets and will advocate for the improvement and expansion of the eu ets to ensure a global carbon market that delivers the emission reductions needed to address climate change.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. we have this instrument in practical use, and i agree with you that the system still needs to be made more efficient and perhaps also to be controlled by incentives. the presidency will take care of that. but you know that this is always a longer-term process. this too is not solved by a switch-over. the presidency will deal with this matter.
the president of the council. you know that the commission proposal was made. the proposal is now being examined and discussed in the member states and answers are being given. i am sure that when the energy action plan is presented in the spring, a viable solution will be found, involving the various modes of transport and the various emitters who play a role.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in fact, it would not be enough to confine ourselves to the european union alone. germany also holds the g8 presidency, and this shows that energy, climate change and environmental protection are also important topics of discussion, for example with the major consumer countries china and the united states. but that does not mean that we should wait until there is an agreement. we must set a good example for the emerging countries, but at the same time negotiate with the consumer countries.
the president of the council. in reply to mr davis' question, the presidency would like to refer to the presidency report on the implementation of the general policy on transparency and the assessment of its impact on the efficiency of the council's work - unfortunately, this title is so long - which the presidency presented to the council on 11 december 2006. in addition to a preliminary assessment of the impact of the increasing number of public debates and discussions on the efficiency of the council's work, the report also includes information on the number of visits to the new council video streaming website and the website providing access to council documents related to public debates or discussions. in the first four and a half months of the introduction of the new transparency measures, over 28 000 visits to these new offers were registered on the council's website. these figures document the positive response of the public and the media to the new transparency measures. the webcast and the online availability of documents relating to public meetings have thus considerably improved the possibility of following the council's debates and decision-making processes. the council is constantly seeking to improve this offer. as regards the impact of these transparency measures on the efficiency of the council's work, it should be recalled that the new rules had been in force for less than six months, including the month of august, at the time of the first evaluation requested by the european council in june 2006. it was and is therefore really too early to make a definitive assessment.
deputising for the author. – madam president, i too am delighted to be able to address you as such. i am absolutely delighted to hear that there were 28 000 visits recorded and that people can follow debates on the net. we talk a lot about democracy and plan d for dialogue and this is an opportunity for citizens to see it in action. i believe this is a real gesture towards greater transparency. but you did say that the council is working hard to improve this and what i want to know is, are you satisfied it is working successfully? do you have any plans to promote it or advertise it to a wider audience? and do you have any specific ideas on the improvements that you might make, even though it is only a short time in action?
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the council released its conclusions on sudan on monday, so it is appropriate that parliament also speaks out strongly this week, further highlighting the humanitarian crisis and international scandal that is darfur. we are attempting to raise the political temperature on this issue to increase the pressure on those who can, if the will exists, make things happen on the ground to protect people. we all know the figures and the scale of the humanitarian consequences of insufficient action by the international community. it is estimated that up to 400 000 people have been killed and more than two and a half million people displaced or made homeless in the last three years due to conflict. ngos currently provide humanitarian relief for up to four million people. that is half of darfur’s entire population. in recent months there have been repeated attacks on humanitarian convoys and twelve aid workers have been killed in darfur in the last six months. so ngos are pulling their people out of darfur while indiscriminate attacks continue on civilians. so what can we do? the main thrust of this resolution is to call on the un to set a clear date for deployment of the planned un-supported peacekeeping force, or hybrid force, into darfur, even in the absence of agreement with the sudanese government, in order to secure humanitarian aid corridors to an increasingly isolated population in the region. we are calling for this in the context of the un’s responsibility to protect, based on the failure of the sudanese government to protect its own population from war crimes and crimes against humanity, and a failure to provide humanitarian assistance to the population. president al-bashir continues to oppose phase 3 of the present un plan which allows the au mission to be bolstered by more than 20 000 un peacekeeping troops. the point is, diplomacy is failing. people are dying in huge numbers and at some point the international community is obliged to act more firmly. that is why the setting of a clear date for the deployment of troops will focus the attention on a tight timescale to find a diplomatic solution to get peacekeepers on the ground in darfur.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – madam president, commissioner, why are we still using oil to drive cars and heat homes? with increasing global demand for oil, the deterioration of the stability of the middle east, particularly with the possibility of an iranian war looming and with the search for oil becoming more difficult and expensive as the biggest oil fields play out, why do we not reserve oil for essential uses like some plastics or jet fuels, and use sustainable alternatives in motoring, home heating, electricity generation and other applications that are possible to substitute? we will in fact get to the point where we reserve our oil, but will we do it far-sightedly and voluntarily or because prices force us? what will decide the question? well, the answer lies in the way we support european r&d and the way we scale up european production of alternatives, not in the way we take alternative oils from other countries. the closing and destroying of sugar factories in ireland rather than turning them into ethanol factories does not give me confidence that we are yet serious about the need to switch to oil alternatives.
in writing. among the reasons i cannot support this report are:- the reference to the use of combat units (battle groups) and enhanced cooperation with nato;- the vague use of the term ‘radicalisation’ as an indicator for ‘non-democratic actions’;- the promotion of cooperation between security and intelligence services and police, judicial and customs authorities of the member states and third countries, raising the issue of data protection and constituting a deterioration of civil liberties and respect for human rights;- the mixing of police, security and intelligence forces, which could lead to abuse of powers against the citizens, as has been seen recently in ireland;- the interlinking of internal policies with terrorism results in the elimination of the inter-pillar structure, bringing forward the logic of the draft eu constitution. there is no mention of state terrorism. some of the root causes of violence (occupation, injustice, social and economic causes) are barely mentioned. the report points the finger at islam, fostering discrimination and undermining respect for different religions and cultures.
mr president, as many meps are aware, elections to the northern ireland assembly took place last week. the overwhelming majority of the 108 members of this new assembly supported the creation of a devolved government in northern ireland on 26 march next. dr ian paisley and the dup secured a politicial mandate from voters for the policies that he is presently pursuing. i would urge dr paisley and his party to take the final historic step and form a devolved government in two weeks’ time. the european parliament has always supported the peace process in northern ireland and will, i hope, continue to do so. this has been with the support given by the european union to programmes such as the interreg cross-border initiative, the peace and reconciliation fund and the international fund for ireland. on 24 march 2006, we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of the creation of the european union. this is a celebration of a very successful political project whereby european leaders put aside their differences and chose the path of peace, as opposed to the path of war. it would be very symbolic indeed if a new government in northern ireland could be formed two days after these europe-wide celebrations, as this would mark a very important step in building peace and reconciliation amongst all the people in northern ireland. finally, i welcome the fact that the european parliament has named today european commemoration day for the victims of terrorism. we must never forget those people who have died or been injured at the hands of terrorists, be it in ireland, europe or other parts of the world.
mr president, i was both interested and shocked to read the findings of a report last week which show that, since 2002, the total time allocated to physical education in european schools has declined steadily. indeed, my own country, ireland, ranks as one of the poorest with a minimum curriculum guideline of 30 minutes and a maximum of just 60 minutes. childhood obesity is on the rise across europe. indeed, obesity is five times more common now than it was after world war ii. in ireland alone 300 000 children are either overweight or obese according to the department of health and children. obesity in our children today will cost society massively in the long run, from both an economic and a social perspective. in terms of direct cost, obesity accounts for up to six per cent of ireland’s total healthcare costs. obesity is directly linked to many serious illnesses such as type-two diabetes, heart disease, stroke, high blood-pressure and certain types of cancer. with this in mind, surely it is time for the eu to give impetus to change by promoting a realistic and effective strategy in this field, which can be benchmarked by member states.
mr president, first of all my apologies for not being here earlier on. i got a puncture and unfortunately there is not enough hot air in strasbourg to keep things going! a uachtaráin, a leas-uachtaráin, ní mór don choimisiún eorpach cur chuige straitéiseach a chleachtadh agus é i mbun polasaí polaitiúil a chruthú. beidh aire ardaithe ar bharr an chláir oibre feasta. glacann rialtaisí an aontais eorpaigh le moltaí an choimisiúin ar an ábhar seo. is faoin gcoimisiún é anois, áfach, moltaí reachtúla a chruthú, a chinnfidh go dtiocfaidh laghdú 20% ar sceitheadh c02 faoin mbliain 2020. táim lánchinnte go dtabharfaidh parlaimint na heorpa tacaíocht iomlán don phlean polaitiúil seo. outside of the issues in relation to climate change which i have just mentioned, three other key areas that the commission must face and deal with in the coming year are the issues of ensuring the delivery of the lisbon agenda and, in particular, investment in research and development – 3% of gdp – looking at areas of innovation and encouraging the new technologies, which will become the major employment opportunities for europe in the future. secondly, there is the issue of reconnecting with our young people within europe. for too long, we have spoken about the wonderful wealth and resource that is our young population within europe. however, outside of the erasmus programme and one or two other, smaller, educational programmes, the actual original idea of youth for europe action plans seems to have been forgotten and put to one side. and, as i said, this is a huge resource, not just in economic terms but in development terms – in ensuring we can deliver a proper and wonderful future europe to future generations. thirdly, the common foreign and security policy is a key element, one where europe must be seen to deliver on the world stage, and yet there seem to be difficulties with regard to the budget and forward planning with regard to what can be done there. madam commissioner, i know you have much on your plate at the moment and there are other difficulties interinstitutionally, but unless we are seen to act on behalf of our citizens and deliver to our citizens, then all of the bureaucracy is not going to help. my final point is that we should cut red tape and make it easier for businesses to operate. better regulation and less regulation could be a way forward to achieving some of those goals.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, last week there was jubilation in some quarters over the major breakthrough in the long sought-after ‘open skies’ agreement. i have very mixed feelings about the whole issue. on the one hand, i think it is good that flying becomes more affordable and that there will be more flights available. of course, we will have to match the increase with greater fuel efficiency in order to avoid major increases in emissions. however, if the cheaper flights wind up funnelling travel into the three major european hub airports, travelling will become more of a nightmare than it is even today. we have many regional airports with the potential to open up areas of europe to visitors and business, but i fear that they will be sidelined in the deregulated, competitive environment of open skies, if we are not careful about how it is set up. the effect on regional airports and their surrounding areas needs to be assessed. in my constituency, we have for a long time been asking for an impact assessment, particularly in the shannon area. even at this late stage, it is important that we carry out such assessments.
madam president, the recent agreement of principle between the united states and the eu on open skies is extremely welcome because, from a situation that seemed totally deadlocked a number of months ago, we are now on the brink of an open aviation market. this will benefit the travelling public. competition within the aviation sector has revolutionised air travel. air passengers now have choice, and low-fare, no-frills air travel has become the order of the day. passengers will benefit even more under the new arrangement. the ownership issue, which was a problem for the united states, has hopefully been resolved by way of an honourable compromise. but i would agree with my colleagues mr simpson and mr kirkhope and i would encourage the commission to be very tough in future negotiations with the united states. i commend the commission for the strong stand it has taken in refusing to allow individual bilaterals between member states within the eu and the united states. such bilaterals would undermine and delay the agreement just reached. the new arrangement will hopefully offer some protection to shannon airport on the west coast of ireland. for over 70 years, shannon airport has been the gateway airport between the united states and ireland. all planes travelling to and from the us stopped off at shannon. in recent years, this compulsory stopover has been diluted. but, crucially, the new agreement would incorporate a transition period for airports such as shannon to enable them to adapt to the new situation. it is equally important that the open skies agreement be reviewed every few years in order to monitor the impact of the agreement on shannon and other similar airports. the agreement is a very historic one. indeed, it is the most historic since the 1944 chicago convention. i would commend both sides, and the commission in particular, for rescuing an agreement that a few short months ago seemed doomed to failure.
madam president, i should like to apologise for being a little late and i appreciate your tolerance. i was having difficulty with the lifts. transatlantic tourism is of vital importance to ireland, and there is much room for expansion. of the nearly seven million people who visited ireland in 2005, over half a million of them came from across the atlantic, contributing over eur 500 million to the irish economy. it has been estimated that these numbers could triple if the open skies agreement is ratified, and generate an extra eur 1 billion for the irish economy. with the advent of open skies, we can continue to benefit from the goodwill we have received from hosting events such as the tour de france, the special olympics and the ryder cup. if a small country like ireland can benefit in that way, what potential is there for the continent of europe? of course we should be concerned about climate change, but the answer is to find new fuels for air transport and make more efficient use of existing fuels. protectionism does not benefit the consumer or our economies. a clear open skies policy not only encourages individuals to travel to europe but also helps to promote european goods in north america. open skies opens up more of the american market to european consumers and business people. our ability to travel and trade with more cities can only help to boost our economies and allow us additional access to the strong us economy, especially now, given the current strength of the euro against the dollar. this bodes well for european business. in conclusion, the economic and cultural exchanges that will be made possible by this agreement will ensure that the united states and europe maintain a healthy relationship for years to come, and i urge the commission and the council to resist protectionism and self-interest in this matter.
mr president, i rise on my own behalf and on behalf of at least a hundred other colleagues who missed the two roll-call votes on the two parish reports. we were here, but, by the time we had got our cards out, we could no longer record our votes. i would like my vote recorded as ‘in favour’ for both the roll-call votes on the parish reports. i would ask you to take into consideration that literally over a hundred colleagues missed those two votes, as they were scheduled first today and there were no further roll-call votes. this is not usually the way colleagues are treated. it is not your fault, mr president: the agenda was not yours to determine, but i would ask that this be taken into account.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – commissioner, i rely heavily on child and adult special care to be here and to make my contribution to this debate today. it is important for a woman to have the right to pursue a career if she chooses and good, affordable childcare is essential in ensuring this. but, having worked at home and raised a large family, i know the important part i played in the development of my children. i consider myself fortunate to have been able to stay home with my children and my children fortunate to have had me. what is the debate about? it is important that we are honest. is this debate about children? my first grandchild was born this morning. if we could ask him, he would say that he would choose to be cared for by his mother. is the debate about choice for women? if it is, we would, on the one hand, financially support childcare and flexible working conditions for mothers who choose to work and, on the other hand, financially support mothers who choose to work at home caring for children. if the debate is about the eu economy, then in the short term providing an extensive childcare system and a network of legislation that actually gets women into the workplace, whether or not they want to be there, makes sense. but in the long term, given eu demographics and the intricacies of child development, channelling the vast majority of mothers into the workplace during their children's young years is a policy that i am convinced we will someday regret.
i would like to thank commissioner dimas for his very positive response and to compliment him on what has already taken place. but i might specifically ask that, perhaps, further financial resources might be made available to develop environmental issues in schools, and i believe that the commission should, in fact, pursue this area more. the topical question nowadays is how we protect our environment – the means and the method – and i honestly believe that we should try to get that message home to young people. obviously we all have our part to play and we should encourage national governments to do the same. so, commissioner, while appreciating what you have done already, i would like you to explore further the possibilities there.
rapporteur. – mr president, ‘the ilo maritime labour convention is the best thing that has ever been developed in the maritime labour field.’ these are not my words, but the words of dierk lindemann, who was the spokesperson for shipowners during the negotiations on the convention. the convention brings together 65 previous ilo conventions into one consolidated document. it sets minimum requirements for seafarers, with provisions on employment conditions and recruitment, working hours, wage protection, leave and repatriation, accommodation, recreation, food and catering, health and medical care, welfare and social security. it will immeasurably improve the conditions of the millions of workers in this sector worldwide. because the maritime industry is global, it is important that global standards be adopted in order to limit the negative effects of globalisation, in particular social dumping. the convention, when ratified, will apply to all ships, even those flagged by countries which have not individually ratified. it will shift the behaviour pattern of the whole industry by creating minimum standards, avoiding social dumping. immediately following its adoption in february 2006, chris horrocks, secretary-general of the international shipping federation, said, ‘this landmark decision is just the beginning. now we have to ensure that every government ratifies this convention as soon as possible and applies it in full.’ in july 2006, the european community shipowners’ association and the european transport workers’ federation confirmed their full support for the convention in a letter to eu transport ministers. in their letter, they strongly recommend that member states ratify the convention and engage in processes to that end as soon as possible. the representative of the ilo, cleopatra doumbia-henry, speaking at the committee on employment and social affairs, where it was discussed, said that a delay in ratification could slow down the extraordinary momentum which has built up in support of the convention. strong words indeed for a representative of the ilo! the commission, having invested much in the negotiations on the convention and ensuring that it was compatible with eu law, is also on record as supporting ratification of the convention by the end of 2008. ratification by that date would enable the convention to enter into force by 2009, almost ten years after negotiations began. it seems to me that the only people who do not want the convention to be ratified by 2008 are the member states, who want, in their own words, ‘to make efforts to ratify the convention, preferably before 31 december 2010’. the reality is that without the convention, shipping in europe will find it difficult to compete, as it is increasingly being undercut by ships flying flags of convenience. i would urge members to endorse the convention overwhelmingly and, in adopting this report, send a message to the member states that the shipping industry, and particularly workers within that industry, cannot wait. member states should stop dragging their feet and ratify this convention speedily. i should like to make some additional remarks about other measures that could be undertaken by the eu. the commission’s excellent communication on strengthening maritime labour standards provides a good starting point, and i hope that my report makes some small contribution to doing just that. the eu needs to look at areas not fully covered by the convention and, in particular, the regulation of recruitment agencies. the eu should look at how to strengthen, complement or extend the standards of the ilo convention and to go further in protecting the rights and interests of seafarers. the eu should look at adopting measures to reduce the risks of different interpretations of the convention between eu member states. proposals should be brought forward to allow for family-friendly facilities to be available on ships. the eu should try to enforce minimum employment standards and wages for all vessels operating in its waters and, in particular, i would say that the commission should retable the proposal for an eu ferries directive. however, the first and the most important step is the ratification of this ilo maritime labour convention. there is no time to be wasted in this matter and there can be no delay.
mr president, i also welcome the report and indeed i welcome the work which ms mcdonald has put into this issue. there is no doubt whatsoever that this consolidated convention on the working conditions of seafarers is an extremely important step forward. it is an attempt to bring up to date some conventions which go back as far as 1920, and it seeks to put in place some global standards which hopefully will lead to more humane conditions on board ships. as has already been pointed out, however, even the higher minimum standards which the convention will set out will still not reach the standards for employees and employment in the various eu member states. it is regrettable, therefore, that eu member states are resisting a rapid ratification of this particular convention. in my view, it is part of the race to the bottom which many member states have resisted. for instance in ireland, there was the manning of ferries directive, and the experience was that irish ferries sought to sack their entire staff and subsequently employ cheaper labour at less than half the legal minimum wage rate in ireland. in conclusion, i think that the blocking of the manning of ferries directive and the attempt to slow down the ratification of this convention is symptomatic of some member states’ attitudes. i agree with everything that ms mcdonald has said with regard to the need for europe-wide regulation. however, i say to her that in order to make this regulation, we need qmv in this area of work, which we do not have at present. in order to get qmv we need the proposed european constitution and i suggest that ms mcdonald ought to review her opposition to that constitution if we are serious about making progress as regards implementing common labour standards across europe.
mr president, i am sorry for interrupting at this point, but before the commission and the council reply to this morning’s debate, i want to draw attention to the fact that not a single speaker referred to the non-sectarian nature of the european union and how important it is that the declaration make clear that the european union respects all religions, that it is a secular organisation, and that it must maintain its democratic and secular nature if it is to maintain its cohesion.
in writing. despite our reservations about certain aspects of the report, on balance we decided to vote in favour. while we are not convinced of the need for a legal framework, nor are we happy about the way in which certain social services have been designated as services of general economic interest, we are pleased that the report strongly supports the values of equality and solidarity, and the principles of accessibility and universal service. our vote in favour of this report should in no way be seen as an endorsement of public-private partnerships.
in writing. sinn féin is unreservedly opposed to nuclear proliferation and welcomes the european parliament’s stated opposition today. ireland is a nuclear-free country and must remain so. the nuclear industry however still affects our environment and health as foreign nuclear power plants have affected our seas and countryside causing health problems for our population. all countries, regardless of their size, influence or form of government should begin a process of decommissioning their nuclear arsenals as soon as possible. we are opposed to any other countries joining the nuclear club or the extension of the nuclear abilities of those powers already armed with nuclear weapons.
mr president, i too would like to join with my colleagues in thanking mrs pack for her report, the president-in-office for his comments, and commissioner rehn for his ongoing work in a very difficult area. i would like to deal with three key areas. first, regarding the high representative: like some colleagues, i have also been to bosnia-herzegovina and to republika srpska and have seen the actions carried out by both the current high representative and the previous high representative, lord ashdown. in a lot of ways, they allowed politicians in bosnia-herzegovina off the hook by saying to them: unless you make these changes, we will make them for you. so if politicians were politically unable to make the changes, the high representative merely came in and did it for them. i want to emphasise that, if we truly want to work towards the establishment of a peaceful and stable bosnia-herzegovina that will have respect and tolerance for all the different peoples within that unified country, then we must ensure that they take responsibility for themselves, and for the laws and decisions that must come about. secondly, with any state, the separation of powers is essential, particularly regarding the police and judiciary. there can be only one police force in bosnia-herzegovina. that must be a key point. finally, with regard to visa facilitation: let us first bring over the young people – undergraduates and graduates from schools and universities in bosnia-herzegovina. allow them to come first and then open up the wider visa process, because young people are the future for the development of a peaceful bosnia-herzegovina and a peaceful balkan area.
deputising for the author. – thank you, president-in-office, for your response. following the arrest of morgan tsvangirai last sunday, it was not until tuesday – yesterday – that he was arraigned before a court and given access to medical treatment. we all know about the human rights abuses that have taken place – they have been well catalogued over the last few months – but there are also the effects on the human population: 3.5 million refugees have left zimbabwe. furthermore, last saturday the price of a loaf of bread was 3000 zimbabwean dollars and today it is 9000. there is 80% unemployment. is it not now time that neighbouring countries, like south africa, took a firm stance with zimbabwe and the corrupt regime of robert mugabe?
mr president, i would like to commend mr schapira for his work on this report as well as mr mavrommatis for his work as shadow rapporteur. i believe this is an important part of the work of the committee on development. i had the privilege to be rapporteur on the development cooperation instrument: quite a controversial instrument which took us two years to agree on. as part of that, we insisted that the role of local authorities be acknowledged – and indeed it was acknowledged – and through the new implementation procedure which we have now agreed through the development committee’s four working parties, we must now ensure that local authorities are fully involved in the consultation process and in the implementation of development aid, and that the wishes of parliament are not simply taken as wishes but that the dci is taken as the legislative will of this house. secondly, we should not confine the involvement of local authorities to local authorities in developing countries. as a former lord mayor of dublin, let me give you my own experience as chairman of the biggest local authority in ireland. within dublin city council, for example, we have a huge resource: engineers who know how to provide clean water, how to deal with sewage, how to construct roads and piers and all sorts of things, and i believe that that resource could be put to use in the developing world, not just from dublin but from all the counties in ireland and from all the counties and local authorities within the european union. we should be thinking of twinning our local authorities with the local authorities in the developing world. i know that a lot of people who work for local authorities within the european union who have skills would love to bring those skills to bear in delivering clean water and other things in the developing world. i ask the commission to pursue this idea, not just to involve local authorities within developing countries, but to involve our local authorities who have skills and will bring them to assist the developing world. i commend that idea to the commission and i hope it will be borne in mind.
in writing. while fully supporting the calls for greater consideration to be given to the plight of islands in the context of regional development i felt i had no choice but to vote against today's report by mr.musotto because of its endorsement of a "fortress-europe" approach. the economic and social development of islands is very important and requires special measures such as the flexibility requested in terms of competition regulations. the islands off the coast of ireland have played and continue to play an important role in preserving the irish culture and economy. sinn féin will support any measures which contribute to the support of such islands.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for the work carried out on this report. when we speak about kosovo, we often tend to think about it in the abstract, whereas it is the last linchpin of the very fracturous european region of the western balkans. i think it is incumbent on all of us to ensure that we deliver the strongest possible message that the democratic will expressed by the people of kosovo is respected, that it is brought to a conclusion and that the european union has a unified voice on how things should progress in the future. the roadmap has already been laid out for us through the ahtisaari plan. it is a very clear and concise plan with regard to the kind of protection and mechanisms that can be put in place to guarantee that the kosovars’ rights are represented and maintained. most importantly, however, they will ensure that the minorities within kosovo are also protected and represented and that they do not become part of a singular state in which they have no influence or role to play. most importantly of all, if history has taught us anything – through the example of the establishment of the european union or conflict resolution in other areas of the european continent – it is that only by having better and closer relations with our neighbours can we achieve what can truly be called a just and lasting peace. that is why serbia must not be ignored. even though many of us have criticised serbia for its actions in the past, and maybe for some intransigence at the present time, it has legitimate concerns which must be responded to. likewise, the serb minority in kosovo has concerns that must be addressed. we must act as the guarantor of those rights. we must show the way forward to be the best possible way of achieving the peace and stability we all crave for in that region of europe. at present, there are 213 irish troops among the kfor force stationed in kosovo. they are playing an invaluable role in creating peace and stability. as the previous speaker said, when we vote on the european union budget in the future we should remember the common foreign and security aspect, because that is one area in which we are successful.
mr president, following on from the berlin declaration last weekend and the roadmap laid out for 2009 as being the year for rejuvenation or renewal of the treaty in conjunction with the european elections, i would like to make a proposal that we designate 2009 as the year of the child, not only to protect those who are most vulnerable and set down common standards across the european union as regards how we protect our children, but also as a vote of optimism in future generations for the way they can continue the project of the european union after 50 years of construction and development. i would therefore like to put forward this proposal and ask colleagues to give it as much support as possible.
mr president, joseph conrad once said that what all men are really after is some form, or perhaps only some formula, of peace. as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of this unique european project, which has brought peace and stability to our continent, this week has also been unprecedented, remarkable and extremely positive for peace and progress on the island of ireland. at last we have not just a form of peace, but a formula for a peaceful future for the citizens of ireland, north and south. i would like to warmly welcome devolved government and its return to northern ireland. the decision this week by the largest political groups, the dup and sinn féin, to sit down face to face and agree to power-sharing within six weeks represents a profoundly promising milestone and, at last, the end game in the protracted peace process of northern ireland following 40 years of violence. it is important that we in the european parliament acknowledge the extraordinary happenings at stormont this week. i would also like to acknowledge in particular the role of the ulster unionist party and the sdlp, david trimble and john hume, the former leaders, their current leaders … (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i have enjoyed the dedicated discussion we have had on this very important topic. i also appreciate your support for the main thrust of these ideas. on some of the more difficult points, i hope that i have been able to explain that we can, to a certain extent, accommodate many of your ideas. i would like to make some comments on three different issues. firstly, on labelling. it is important to realise that when the european union’s logo is used, an indication of the place where the raw materials were farmed is compulsory. this is also the case for imported products and it must be crystal clear that they have to comply with the same rules as domestic production. the issue of co-existence was raised. it is very important that member states make their own decision nationally to legislate on the rules for co-existence and the rules for liability. once these gm products are in a member state, then there must be rules on distances and cleaning machinery when going from one field to another. the decision has to be taken in the individual member states, owing to the differences between production in northern and southern europe. i can only encourage member states to put in place this legislation. on the threshold mentioned seemingly by all of you, it is necessary to underline that the commission proposal does not change the current rules regarding the unavoidable presence of gmos. however, it does clarify the organic operator’s responsibility for avoiding the presence of gmos. again, the important thing is that the use of gmos and their derivatives is and was strictly banned in organic production, so they must be kept completely out of all organic production. we are also making the rules on the tests on each and every batch of organic products sold less restrictive than at present. on mass catering, also an issue raised by many of you, it is today possible, and will be in future, for mass catering companies to produce goods, under national legislation, which they can label as organic. this is crucial. we could not accept an eu ruling or legislation on this issue. i can accept amendments 20, 31, 35, 56, 71, 75, 99, 101 and 120. furthermore, as i mentioned previously, 68 of the amendments are acceptable partially or in principle. i cannot accept the other amendments in the light of the discussions that we have had and i refer specifically here to the amendment proposing a double legal basis. however, the fact that 77 of your amendments are either totally or partially accepted clearly indicates that we have more common ground on this issue than you might think at first glance. thank you for a passionate debate.
, in writing. – some things are black and white. organic and genetic modification are opposites. a food cannot be called organic if it is genetically modified. to pretend gm food contaminant can be labelled organic is so ludicrous that we have to ask why this possibility is allowed for in this directive. is it because the commission knows that co-existence will not work? if we carry on with the commission’s gm coexistence policy, organic farms will inevitably be contaminated. is it because the commission realises that if gm agriculture goes ahead it will destroy organic farming unless we redefine ‘organic’? this would be a gross injustice and deception of organic farmers, sellers and consumers. therefore i would like to ask colleagues to support amendments 166/167, 170/171, 175 and 194, and to oppose the inclusion of any genetic contamination threshold, which means to oppose the agri committee’s amendment 41 and any others with this effect.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs vincenzi and mr savary for their valuable work. there is no doubt that the maritime sector is just one of the areas crying out for tighter regulation. the flagging of ships is a crucial issue, an issue prioritised by the international transport workers’ federation in its flags of convenience campaign. i think it is essential, especially in relation to the vincenzi report, that the report be adopted in order to ensure that member states meet their international commitments in this respect. we have seen disputes such as the irish ferries dispute and others in the sector, where reflagging has been used as a mechanism to sack workers so as to pay low wages for uncertain working hours and working conditions and to avoid labour regulation in the country of ownership. workers within the shipping industry need action now across the range of international instruments which will improve regulation within their sector and their quality of working life. i am sure that parliament will adopt these reports. it is incumbent on the council and indeed on individual member states to respond accordingly and to meet their responsibilities.
a uachtaráin, is pobal seacht mballstát agus fiche an taontas eorpach anois agus dá réir, tá seasamh níos láidre againn ar an ardán idirnáisiúnta. creidim gur chóir go mbeadh ról mar idirghabhálaí macánta ag an aontas eorpach in aighneas an mheánoirthir agus go háirithe sna hiarrachtaí atá á ndéanamh chun síocháin a chothú idir muintir na palaistíne agus muintir iosrael. ar an gcuma chéanna, ba chóir dúinn súil a choinneáil ar an bpolaitíocht san iaráin, mar tá sí sin ag déanamh imní agus mioscaise sa mheánoirthear trí chéile. níos gaire do bhaile, caithfimid ár ndóigh cabhair a thabhairt do na tíortha balcánacha lena chinntiú go ndéanfar dul chun cinn eacnamaíochta agus polaitíochta iontu agus go neartófar an ceangal eadrainn. caithfidh an taontas eorpach a bheith ina cheannródaí i gcur chun cinn spriocanna forbartha na mílaoise, agus sa chomhthéacs seo a chinntiú go mbeidh muintir na hafraice neamhspleách i gcúrsaí forbartha agus i gcearta daonna. (bualadh bos)
in writing. we, the fianna fáil delegation, have rejected the lamassoure report for the following reasons:- most importantly, the reform discussed by the rapporteur is a clear stepping stone to eu harmonised tax to which the irish government is absolutely opposed. in actual fact, the majority of the european parliament today voted in favour of authorising the european union to revoke the fiscal sovereignty of each member state enshrined in the treaties for a limited time at any time. we cannot accept this. on, the contrary, the fianna fáil delegation voted with 153 other parliamentarians stressing the inviolable right of each member state of self-determination in respect of taxes, noting that unanimity is required amongst member states in order to introduce any type of european tax and stressing that every member state has the right of veto in this matter. in addition, the current financial package was a hard won agreement, advantageous to ireland and this report would seek in the future to reform this type of funding. ireland has only benefited from former financial perspective agreements. furthermore, poorer countries would be disadvantaged and in our opinion, a direct eu tax from the pockets of citizens would be frowned upon by irish and eu citizens.
in writing. i supported the lamassoure report on the future of european union own resources because i believe it is a good contribution to the urgently needed wider debate on eu spending. a budget of 1% of gdp is simply insufficient to meet europe’s political challenges, including the promotion of a strong social and research dimension. a minimum of 3% is required. these issues should be central to the revived efforts to reform the treaties.
in writing. i support the stance of uefa’s former president lars olsen who commented that one of the greatest challenges facing professional football is that of players’ agents. taking into account the recommendations of the recent stevens report in the uk, i believe it is necessary for strict standards and criteria to be implemented for transactions carried out by players’ agents. the current system allows for dual representation and lacks financial transparency, particularly for transfers outside of europe. therefore the bottom line is that either uefa regulates and amends the current situation, or the commission will be called upon to present a directive on a common agents’ licensing system. one of the main objectives of this report is to highlight ways of stimulating competitive balance in football. i believe that the charleroi case currently before the european court of justice, if successful, will have a significant negative impact on the competitiveness of smaller international football associations in europe. i am adamant that clubs should release their players for national duty without entitlement to compensation. therefore i support the call upon to the commission to back the development of a collective insurance system for players.
mr president, i would like to thank those members who participated in the detailed processing of this regulation. it is extremely important that issues as sensitive and complex as this are dealt with under the codecision procedure. it reassures our citizens, whose national parliaments cannot vary a regulation, to see their meps engaged in preparing balanced and effective legislation which seeks to enhance their lives. the therapies which this regulation seeks to deal with have great potential for treating cancer, alzheimer’s and parkinson’s disease. regrettably, and not unexpectedly, some reactionary elements are falsely claiming that this proposal overrides member states’ rights on ethical issues. they want to exclude products derived from embryonic stem cells from the scope of this regulation. the effect of doing so would be to leave such products unregulated in many parts of europe as regards their safety, quality and efficacy. contrary to these wild claims, the regulation does not circumscribe a member state’s right to refuse to countenance embryo, stem-cell-based therapies. indeed i would deplore such a ban by any member state. this regulation is about saving life and about enhancing the quality of life, not its destruction – as is being claimed by some in this house tonight. we owe it to tens of thousands of patients and their families to do everything we can to encourage and make available the most advanced treatments for some of the most intractable illnesses facing our societies today. we also need to guarantee insofar as we can that they are safe and of the highest quality and that they actually work. this is what this regulation seeks to do. i fully support the pse group’s position and call on all members – and indeed i would particularly call on all my irish colleagues – to support this regulation.
mr president, last month the ukrainian prime minister came to the european parliament. in a discussion in committee, i asked him about the trade in human body parts, especially of infants before and after birth. the prime minister acknowledged this gruesome trade and called it painful. he reminded me that it also included embryos. he said the problem was not only ukrainian sellers but also the wealthy international buyers he asked for our help to end this form of human trafficking. our help. tomorrow’s vote will determine whether we have any help to give. if we uphold the ban on commercialisation and if we exclude human embryos from the scope of this directive, then we will be able to do something about the wealthy buyers within the eu. if, however, we give the green light to commercialisation and destruction of embryos, not only will we be unable to help ukraine with the buyers who keep the trade alive, but we will also cause the same painful situation in the eu, whereby those who are desperate for money are exploited for their body parts to benefit those who are rich enough to pay for them.
in writing. payments are the financial lubricants that allow the real economy to function. currently each eu citizen is making on average 138 non-cash payments per year and this is likely to grow. i firmly believe that if european citizens and businesses are to reap the full benefits of this internal market, then they have to be able to trust in efficient, cheap and secure payments. it is for this reason that i support the payment services report by mr gauzès. currently both consumers and retailers have to contend with the fact that goods can be physically moved across the eu in one or two days, yet the payment in relation to these goods can take between three and five days to clear. the slowness of payments is no longer tolerable in an age when we can boast of nanosecond technology. i firmly believe that european competitiveness will only improve when, in ireland for example, businesses and consumers can make a payment from dublin to madrid as easily as from dublin to cork.
in writing. it goes without saying that i and my colleagues from the fianna fáil delegation are very much in favour of the eradication and combating of hiv/aids within the eu and the neighbouring countries. we and the irish government have concerns regarding references to a strong linking of hiv/aids prevention and sexual and reproductive rights in policies, programmes, strategies and public education. it is the irish government's position that such references should be contextualised by linking such rights to the programme of action of the international conference on population and development (icpd), held in cairo in 1994, and the beijing platform for action (1995) and the unga reviews of these in 1999 and 2000, so as to ensure that irish national legislative/regulatory regimes are respected. both the icpd in cairo and the beijing declaration refer to the need to grant sexual and reproductive rights to women but these rights are qualified by the need to respect national legislative processes when considering the issue of abortion. 'any measures or changes related to abortion within the health system can only be determined at the national or local level according to the national legislative process.' ... (explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with rule 163)
in writing. i have abstained because i do not feel this is an initiative that has any hope of reversing the upward trend in hiv/aids infection in the eu. hiv/aids causes great suffering and yet parliament at committee stage refused to include all approaches known to be effective. i want to save lives and i will wait and give a positive vote to any truly positive initiative.
member of the commission. state support measures in favour of disabled workers will, like any other support measure, only be considered as state aid if the measure fulfils all the conditions of article 87(1) of the ec treaty. this implies, amongst other things, that if the aid is granted to disabled individuals and not to companies, the measure is not state aid. similarly, any measure in favour of disabled workers which does not affect trade between member states, for instance because it is considered as ‘de minimis’, does not fall foul of the treaty rules.
member of the commission. i would inform the honourable member that i consider that the minimum rates of excise duty on alcoholic products should continue. as i said in my press statement when the proposal was presented on 8 september 2006, the minimum rates are the cornerstone of the eu excise duty system, which was agreed in 1992 as the minimum necessary for the functioning of the internal market. revalorising them is a necessary step to restore the position to that which was agreed in 1992. i agree that greater convergence of the rates of excise duty in the different member states is needed so as to reduce distortions of competition and fraud. however, as the honourable member will be aware, without the agreement of all the member states nothing can change. but to simply conclude, as the honourable member suggests, that this is a reason for abolishing the minimum rate does not seem to be the appropriate solution in view of the need for some harmonisation within the common market, and is therefore not a viable proposal. i would like to provide some more information on the issue. at the council meeting, we found strong resistance from many new member states, which claimed that they had nothing to do with the point of departure in 1993 when they were not part of the european union. together with the presidency, we therefore presented a compromise proposal. in the compromise proposal, the point of departure was changed to 1 may 2004, the date of accession of the 10 new member states. that immediately resulted in a much lower rate of inflation: instead of 31%, the new proposed rate is only 4.5%. that was the new proposal, but it was also vetoed by one member state: the czech republic.
mr president, it is not a point of order, but i was wondering whether question 46 will be replied to in the house today, because, if not, i should like to ask a supplementary question to this particular question.
member of the commission. mr president, there are different considerations with regard to the excise duties on alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, for instance health considerations. many member states do not want a low rate of excise duty because of health factors, and i understand their point of view. as far as energy is concerned, if we do not increase the rate of excise duty on certain energy products like fuels, this would result in more fuel consumption, which would lead to more pollution as well as adding to the additional danger of climate change. therefore, excise duty plays an important role in not only improving the internal market but also in other areas such as health, climate change and environmental factors. if we have an excise duty in place, then it is quite logical to set a minimum rate below which no member state can go.
mr president, i wanted to raise a question with regard to question 46 and i would ask commissioner kovács: in relation to tax issues, what plans or powers does the commission have to be able to force a country like ireland, for instance, to increase its corporate tax base? i take it your answer will be that you have none. however, i would really appreciate it if you would put on record the powers and plans the commission has to force an increase in corporate tax rates on ireland.
vice-president of the commission. basically, yes: a system exists on how to deal with children with learning difficulties, but i do not know specifically. we have dealt with some specific cases where there have been big difficulties in adapting the system to the needs of children with certain problems, but a system exists and the board of governors, the secretariat-general and the administration of the european schools try to adapt the schools to the needs of children who have specific problems.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, last february the commission modified the decision setting up the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency. this modification extended the agency’s mandate to 2015 and mandated the agency to run the information network on education in europe – eurydice – from 2008. the decision was taken having heard the positive opinion from the european parliament and the council’s regulatory executive agency committee. a private body currently runs this programme on the basis of a contract with the commission, which expires at the end of this year. the commission has no particular difficulty in recruiting existing staff, but staff policy in executive agencies must ensure, in particular, that selection procedures for contract agents are transparent and give equal treatment to all interested candidates. to this end, the agency has drawn to the attention of the staff working on the eurydice activity that the selection process for contract agents was recently launched by the european personnel selection office (epso). if they take part in this selection process and are successful, the agency will be able to offer them a contract as a contract agent. in addition, the epso selection process covers a range of profiles. provided they pass the epso selection process, the specific experience of staff currently working on the eurydice activity would be taken into consideration upon recruitment. moreover, the agency has already committed itself to waiting for the results of the epso selection before recruiting the contract agents it will need for the eurydice activity.
mr president, the commissioner will understand the concerns of those employed currently by the eurydice unit, who fear that they are going to lose their jobs as a result of the recruitment procedure which is being put in place. epso was in fact intended to be a more general recruitment procedure, and not one for a specific agency, and here we have staff who are well experienced, who have a lot of expertise and who may be lost to the unit as a result of the procedure that has been put in place because, obviously, those who would achieve a place on the panel as a result of the epso process would be competing with those who are already in situ and have the expertise and the experience.
mr president, while there is a lot of huffing and puffing about aviation security and its restrictions on international travel and inconvenience to passengers, the reality is that there is a real international security problem. 9/11 did happen; thousands of people died. the threat to british aviation was a real and not an imaginary threat. the people who perpetrated 9/11 as well as those responsible for the foiled attack on britain are not only still in existence but they have also publicly stated that they intend continue their campaign of international terrorism. let us be real. the committee on transport and tourism and the council have a common cause here, and what is it? it is the protection of the aviation sector and the protection of the millions of passengers who travel annually. looking at the standoff between the council and the committee on transport and tourism, one would imagine that we had a polarisation of two ends of the planet, representing two different interests, instead of two parallel political participants here in europe who are supposedly looking after the common interest of the travelling public. if there is to be conciliation, let us get on with it right away. what is needed is a civil aviation security agreement that guarantees security and safety. what is needed is a civil aviation security agreement that allows individual member states to decide to opt out of certain proposed measures such as the sky marshals. what is needed is a commonly agreed set of measures designed for passenger security which – and this is a crucially important point – firstly, will be subject to a review every six months, secondly, to see if they are successful, thirdly, if they need modification and fourthly, how much they cost. what is not needed is the kind of standoff that we are debating here this evening. we all have one common cause – passenger security– so let us get on with it. is it any wonder that the people of europe are, to put it mildly, sceptical about the way we operate in this parliament when we have this kind of standoff between the commission on the one hand, the council on the other and parliament, while we all have a common cause?
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers in tonight’s debate for their positive contributions. a number of key elements have been included in the overall compromise package that is now proposed. most importantly it contains: a clearer and earlier attention to the impact of climate change in the preliminary assessment of flood risks; an agreement on the earlier date of 2011 for the first preliminary flood risk assessment, thus leaving member states more time to prepare the flood maps; a strengthened role of flood plains and the promotion of sustainable land use practices in flood risk management; sound coordination – also in relation to implementation – with the water framework directive and a link to the cost recovery principles in that directive; a further strengthening of the language on solidarity in river basin districts; and last but not least, a requirement to set clear priorities for the implementation of measures included in the flood risk management plans. i know that these elements were all important to parliament at first reading and in the committee this time around. i believe that the proposed current compromise will satisfy parliament, as important ground has been won on key principles of sound flood risk management practices. i am also particularly pleased to note the importance placed by both parliament and the council on this directive, which was only proposed by the commission 13 months ago. it shows that, faced with the serious challenge of preparing europe for the risks of possibly increased flooding, agreements can be reached relatively rapidly. to conclude, the commission is very pleased with the outcome of negotiations. the commission can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full and i wish to thank and congratulate once more the rapporteur, mr seeber, for all his efforts to reach an agreement at second reading.
in writing. – through an organisation i chair in ireland called hope project, i have been participating in commission research entitled rescuing disabled people in emergencies. in this research we have identified flooding as a most significant risk for elderly people, children and people with disabilities. we have just embarked on follow-up research that looks specifically at flooding. there are two reasons why flooding is becoming such a problem. first is climate change, with the possibility of rising sea levels, and in ireland, increased rainfall. secondly, throughout europe, but especially in ireland, there is a trend of building on flood plains. it is not uncommon to have fields that were under water for several weeks every year to now be the site of estates with 200 houses. eventually this practice will catch up with us. i encourage the house to establish common sense and preventative action in the area of floods and flood control.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the commissioner says that these are ‘ambitious goals’. i think not, commissioner! the commission’s report came under a lot of fire when the committee on the environment, public health and food safety first discussed it in october, as the document is seriously limited in its ambition after five years of gestation. at best, it could be described as a reasonable basic document with which to start the discussion, but it lacks any concrete objectives and, as i said, any ambition. this can probably be attributed to a turf war between the directorate-general for agriculture and rural development and the directorate-general for the environment – guess who won? dg envi’s strategy has been mainly restricted to knowledge-gathering and fails to address some key problematic sectors such as – unsurprisingly – agriculture, forestry, transport and many others. whilst some new initiatives are mentioned, such as a data centre for natural resources, a high-level forum and an international panel, the proposed time horizon of 25 years is totally unacceptable. by contrast, the rapporteur mrs liotard has worked hard to add some substance to the proposal. she correctly makes the point that the commission communication does not comply with the requirements laid down in the sixth environmental action plan for concrete targets and timetables. the report calls on the commission to replace this non-strategy with ambitious proposals, including clear targets and binding timetables. i welcome the emphasis on an integrated policy approach and on the external impact of eu policy on sustainable resources. the only problem is that the rapporteur may have done too good a job. there is such a broad consensus for her report in the envi committee that practically all amendments tabled were adopted, making the report somewhat long and repetitive in places. in my view, this takes away from the message. for this reason i have indicated on my group’s voting list a negative vote on certain paragraphs that duplicate points mentioned elsewhere in the report.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá an gaol eacnamaíochta idir an taontas eorpach agus meiriceá ar an ngaol eacnamaíochta is tábhachtaí ar domhan. is dhá chóras pholaitiúla sinn, le haidhm láidir a chinntíonn caomhnú agus cur chun cinn an daonlathais ar fud an domhain. bíonn ár naimhde ag iarraidh aird a tharraingt ar an difríocht pholaitiúil atá idir an dá réimeas. ní mór dóibh cuimhneamh, áfach, go bhfuil i bhfad níos mó nithe comónta eadrainn ná mar atá difríochtaí. in particular when we consider the links that there are between europe and the us with regard to the action that we can take on the global stage, it is even more important now to move forward, despite the difficulties and differences we have had in the past. just take a look around the world. in afghanistan, we have to work with the us not only to ensure a stabilisation of the situation there, not just for the sake of the country itself, but also because 90% of the heroin being used in europe at the moment comes from afghanistan. likewise, in south america we must take joint action to ensure that alternative crops can be found for its farmers, because huge amounts of cocaine come from there. if we look at darfur in particular, we see the failure of the international community to act and react to the genocide that is taking place there. it is incumbent on us in europe to bring the us along in order to take further and stronger action. likewise, as today we celebrate world malaria day, the actions that we can take collectively are far greater than those we can take individually. most importantly of all are the actions of world trade, however, in order to ensure a fair and more equitable society for all. i call on the commission and others here to no longer rescind our agreements with other countries in order to protect and assist the poorest in the world. together we can achieve more than that which divides us, and in that way we can overcome our political differences on small issues.
mr president, as mrs merkel has said, we need a new ambitious economic partnership between the us and the eu, but it must go hand in hand with a new ambitious environmental partnership. there was transatlantic accord at the recent g8 environment ministers’ meeting, when they agreed with the peer-reviewed scientific report of 2 500 world scientists that human-induced climate change is accelerating and that climate change has consequences not only for the natural environment but also for economic growth and development, global poverty levels, international security and energy supplies. it was unanimously agreed that climate change requires ‘prompt action’ and ‘swift and determined policy responses’. there was, however, less accord, regrettably but not surprisingly, on what those policy responses should be. paragraph 16 of our motion for a resolution notes the disappointment that the united states has refused to move on issues such as emissions targets and the creation of global carbon-trading schemes. however, with the stern report, recent elections in the us, the ipcc report and the increased demands from citizens on both sides, i feel that transatlantic dialogue and cooperation on climate change is increasing, and will and must lead to an agreement for the post-kyoto 2012 period that includes the united states.
co-president of the uen group. – mr president, on a point of order, i will not delay the proceedings for too long, but i wish to say that it was unfair of you not to call on the vice-chairman of the uen group, mr kamiński, who indicated that he wished to speak on the issue. whether you would have agreed or disagreed with the point he wished to make is irrelevant. other people were given the opportunity to speak and he should also have been given an opportunity to speak. some people in this house have a different opinion with regard to the interpretation put forward by the speakers before me and they should have been given an opportunity to have their views heard when other views were heard. (applause)
in writing. i do not agree with the decision adopted today which seeks to give the european union the power to impose criminal sanctions on people who breach intellectual property rights. i hope that the eu council of ministers will take an opposing view to that taken by the european parliament today. that is because in ireland we operate what is known as a common legal system, as opposed to the civil code system which operates in many other eu member states. in ireland, we operate a judicial system whereby one is presumed innocent until proven guilty, whereas the opposite system operates in many other eu member states. we should not allow a system to develop whereby the european union is given a free hand to impose criminal sanctions in europe. the european court of justice has said that the eu can impose criminal sanctions for serious breaches of eu environmental law. but this judgement cannot be interpreted as meaning that the european union can now impose criminal sanctions for whatever measure it feels like.
rapporteur. – thank you, madam president, president-in-office, and commissioner. i am honoured to have this opportunity to present as rapporteur the european parliament’s 2006 annual report on human rights. this report is the most comprehensive and important political statement that the european parliament makes each year on the issue of human rights and their promotion. as rapporteur i have maintained the direct assessment style adopted last year for the 2005 report. in essence it is a constructive and critical analysis of the performance of the council, the commission and parliament in promoting and defending human rights across the globe. the report is the culmination of five months of work in the european parliament’s sub-committee on human rights and committee on foreign affairs in which, it should be noted, significant consensus was reached through discussion, debate and compromise amendments. one of the focal points of the report concerns the eu’s role in the new un human rights council. the assertions made are based on the parliament’s attendance at a number of those council meetings in geneva. the council and commission’s recent annual report could not refer to the un hrc so i felt that it was appropriate that we should focus on it in the report and in the debate today. our report recognises that while it has the potential to develop into a valuable framework for the eu multilateral human rights effort, for the first 12 months the un human rights council has not been a good news story. the un human rights council has failed to reach consensus and an acceptable compromise on key issues such as the middle east, darfur, burma and many others. instead, it has been used at times as a political point-scoring chamber and we must find ways of preventing it being used as a political forum for conflict between geographical or ideological blocks of countries. a good example of this is the weakness of the council’s resolution on darfur. surely the cessation of the spread of violence and the protection of innocent people in darfur should have been the only priority of a un structure designed to deal with human rights, but unfortunately that was not the case. debates on darfur and trying to get agreement on darfur were used as a political bargaining chip or as a lever to try and get agreement on other resolutions. i would urge the european council, in this regard, to look into introducing tougher measures to respond to the humanitarian crisis in darfur. this is an issue i raised yesterday, in a committee meeting, with the council representative who is with us today. the heart of the report deals with how the eu is performing in relation to the human rights guidelines that it sets for itself. there are five eu policy guidelines that europe must promote. these deal with the death penalty, torture, children and women in armed conflict situations, human rights defenders and, of course, dialogues with third countries. i felt it important to critically analyse the council’s performance, especially in relation to the implementation of those guidelines, as it has committed specifically to these tools for human rights advocacy in third countries. in particular, the council and commission need to promote the guidelines within eu embassies and missions abroad. concerns remain that some delegations have little or no knowledge of the guidelines themselves, or of how best to promote them within third-country situations. the report also calls for more consultation between the council and the european parliament, and the sub-committee on human rights in particular, in relation to the council and commission’s human rights report, so that we can genuinely move towards a situation of one all-encompassing report with the views of parliament, council and commission. that is what we are trying to do by changing the structure of our report. the report also emphasises the need to strengthen and improve eu-china human rights dialogue considerably. it recognises that china has decided to have all death penalty cases reviewed by the supreme court, which shows it is inching forward on the death penalty, but also recognises that china puts more people to death than any other country. the report also welcomes resolutions passed by the parliament calling for the closure of the guantánamo bay detention centre, and the contributions that parliament has made to raising the profile of human rights concerns regarding that centre. the very existence of guantánamo bay continues to send out a negative signal as to how the fight against terrorism is being pursued by the west, led by the us. i was very happy to refer in the report to the need for a clear and efficient common arms export control policy, including within the european union, as the impact that the trade in small arms, in particular, is having on human rights conflicts in various parts of the world is clear. we need to move clearly towards an international arms trade treaty, as has been called for repeatedly by parliament. may i conclude by thanking all of the other groups for working with me on this. this is not a ppe-de resolution on human rights. it is, i hope, reflective of parliament as a whole and of all the groups in parliament. i wish to thank everybody who has worked on it with me.
madam president, one area where the european union should play a leadership role is in the field of protecting and promoting human rights in the middle east. as a community of 27 member states, representing 500 million people, the european union is in a position to act as an honest broker in the middle east. i welcome the recent formation of the palestinian unity government. this is a positive development, which could lead to a political consensus being built up in that region and which would create peaceful relations between the palestinian and israeli people. however, the human rights of the palestinian people must be respected. israel should immediately release all detained palestinian legislators. equally, the israeli soldier corporal shalit, who is being held in palestine, must be released immediately. the urgent challenge now is the resumption of a credible political process which would provide peace and security to the israeli and palestinian peoples. the european union must positively engage with the new palestinian unity government. we must not only give political support but also be in a position to financially support economic regeneration in palestinian areas. finally, i wish to compliment my irish colleague, mr coveney, on an excellent report.
rapporteur. – mr president, as rapporteur, i have no problem with that addition of wording.
rapporteur. – mr president, for the purposes of accuracy and updating the facts, as regards paragraph 94, i propose through our oral amendment the addition of the words ‘welcomes, however, the resumption of this aid from february 2007’.
rapporteur. – mr president, as ppe-de group members will know, i recommended that we reject this amendment because i felt it was too prescriptive. however, on the basis of the oral amendment, as rapporteur i can accept the overall amendment.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i hope this debate and resolution will add, in some small way, to the international pressure to successfully achieve the release of alan johnston following his abduction two weeks ago. we in this parliament must speak out strongly to send a clear message of condemnation of the acts of violence that have taken place and the kidnapping of a man who has gained a reputation as one of the world’s leading media broadcasters. he has built up a reputation over many years – but in particular during the last three years in gaza – as a broadcaster who is objective and balanced in his reporting of a very difficult situation. we call on everybody who has any influence or power over his captors to do all they can to secure his release. for the palestinian people themselves, this crisis is adding to an already tragic situation. it is sending out a message to the rest of the world that not even experienced journalists are welcome or safe in gaza. this is a man who has been informing the rest of the world of the suffering, injustice and tragedy that continues there. targeting him by kidnapping him is not only an appalling crime in itself, but it is self-defeating in terms of the palestinian people’s cause. gaza is isolated enough without cutting off accurate media reporting. we are calling on the palestinian authority in particular to work for his release as an absolute priority and on the council and commission to maximise their efforts to that end. finally, to alan johnston’s family and friends, i express my sincere support on behalf of the ppe-de group in this parliament. i hope that their ordeal will soon have a relieving and positive conclusion.
madam president, before we proceed to the votes i would like very briefly to raise a point of order. on behalf of my group, i recognise and welcome the fact that for the first time in the urgency debates we have enjoyed the involvement and contribution of the council. (applause)i hope that this positive precedent will continue. it is extremely welcome and i know that the german delegation in particular has worked hard to ensure that it would happen. i thank the council for being here, and i hope it will continue.
madam president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on the janowski report. first of all i would like to congratulate mr janowski for his good work and his sound cooperation. this is an important report in that it looks at how regional policy can contribute to the innovative capacity of the eu. it is often suggested that innovation, research and development should be concentrated in urban areas, technological clusters and areas where critical mass guarantees investment, whereas, in this report, it is clear that innovation and research and development in fact reinforce regional policy objectives and contribute to cohesion, both between and within regions. i am a firm believer that strong regions contribute to strong national growth. it is like the pieces of a jigsaw fitting together and the final picture being greater than the sum of its parts. if some of the pieces are missing and we do not have regional development and regional innovation, then the overall picture is incomplete. the report stresses the fact that smes play a vital role in innovation capacity-building within the eu and underlines the use that can be made of the financial instruments jaspers, jeremie and jessica. the report also encourages all member states to increase the percentage of gdp spent on r&d. some member states spend in excess of 3% of their gdp on research and development, but others – like my own country, ireland – lag well behind at less than 1.5%. as mr janowski said, given some of the comments we heard yesterday from nobel peace prize winner tim hunt, it is very clear that greater investment in education, universities and research and development and innovation is crucial if the eu is to compete in the global market. finally, i was very pleased to hear the commissioner say earlier that the commission will provide information on how to combine resources from different programmes to create synergies. that is crucial in order to promote regional development. i was also pleased to hear that the commission will monitor how investment in innovation is progressing. hopefully, based on that monitoring, we will see appropriate action being taken.
a uachtaráin, tá sé rí-thábhachtach go bhfaigheadh grúpaí atá curtha fútha i gceantair imeallacha, in éirinn agus ar fud na heorpa, sciar den airgead atá ar fáil faoin gclár taighde, teicneolaíochta agus gnóthaí forbartha. ba mhaith liom comhghairdeas a dhéanamh leis an uasal janowski as ucht a chuid oibre ar an tuarascáil seo. níor chóir go mbeadh aon cheantar imeallach ar fud na heorpa fágtha gan áiseanna theicneolaíocht an eolais rud, faraoir, atá fíor i gcás an bhanda leathain mar shampla. caithfear an banda leathan a chur ar fáil do chuile cheantar, go háirithe do na ceantair imeallacha. caithfear a chinntiú go mbeidh áis an bhanda leathain ar fáil do na ceantair seo chun go mbeadh siad in ann infheistíocht a tharraingt chucu féin mar aon le fostaíocht a chruthú ins na ceantair seo. mura mbeidh an infheistíocht seo ag teacht isteach do na ceantair mar seo, gheobhaidh siad bás. mar sin, caithfidh coimisiún na heorpa tarraingt le rialtaisí na mballstát, lena chinntiú go bhfuil an banda leathan ar fáil do chuile pharóiste, is cuma beag nó mór iad, ar phraghas réasúnta.
mr president, i accept that in this initiative on housing we mean well. after all, having a house is critical to a family and to our communities. however, housing is not our competence, and the dilemma for our citizens is that at national level funds are always accepted, whereas guidelines and strategies are accepted or rejected as it suits. in ireland especially there is a problem. despite our urban strategies, families eligible for social housing wait eight years on average for a house, as an insufficient supply of social housing is being built. this report contains many good recommendations. however, while the eu’s existing strategies recommend things like green spaces, local authorities have been taking these back and squeezing in houses, thus destroying those green spaces for children to play in, and creating concrete patches for graffiti and drugs. sometimes the eu recommendations are out of synch with local reality. in rural areas in ireland it has now become very difficult for a young family to get permission to build a house. our town planners – and they are town planners, not rural planners – insist that all new rural housing be herded into estates. this discourages young people from living in those areas. as in all things, we need to respect subsidiarity and do comparable research to understand best practice, which we in europe can offer as a guide. however, we also have to play our part in asking the nations serious questions about the outcome in terms of people.
madam president, i welcome this report on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy. however, i feel that this policy is not comprehensive enough for ireland’s water supply system problems. in ireland so much of our drinking water is surface water; up to 25% of public water supply in the country is at risk of contamination from the cryptosporidium parasite. in 2005 the water supply of galway was identified as being at very high risk, and now today households cannot use water in galway. there are outbreaks of gastrointestinal illness in both the city and the county of galway. another factor contributing to the water problem in ireland is the waste effluent from factories like aughinish alumina, county limerick, which has been a major source of pollution to the local and surrounding area with its toxic red mud deposits leaking into the water supply. in ireland we add hydrofluorosylic acid to our drinking water as a so-called medicinal product in order to prevent dental decay. it is illegal to force-medicate populations with this dangerous toxic waste substance, which has caused an increase in bone disorders. water is a basic human right, a necessity. we hope that this directive will ensure high-quality water for the irish people.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a dheimhniú ar an gcéad dul síos nach n-aontaíonn mise beag ná mór leis an gcur chuige oibre atá ag peter mandelson, coimisinéir trádála an ae, maidir le comhráití doha ar thrádáil domhanda. dealraíonn sé domsa go bhfuil an tuasal mandelson ag iarraidh margadh trádála ilshleasach a bhaint amach, is cuma cé a ghortófar sa phroiseas. tá an iomarca géillte ag an aontas eorpach cheana féin sna cainteanna seo. tá ciorraithe móra déanta ag an ae ar an tacaíocht a thugtar d'fheirmeoirí na héireann agus na heorpa, agus táimid fós ag feitheamh go gcuirfeadh meiriceá agus grúpa cairns na leasaithe a gheall siad féin i gcrích. ba chóir go mbeadh rialtais na mballstát uilig an-soiléir agus an-chúramach maidir leis an gcineál margaíochta ar mian leo a dhéanfadh an coimisinéir mandelson ar a son. níor chóir dúinn ár bhfoinse beatha a bheith chomh fada ó bhaile le meiriceá theas. ba chóir dúinn é a chothú anseo ag baile agus bá chóir dúinn é a dhéanamh ar na bunphrionsabail ar bunaíodh an taontas eorpach orthu, agus bá chóir go dtuigfeadh an tuasal mandelson é sin. is sasanach é, agus ba chóir go mbeadh ciall ceannaithe ag sasana sa phróiséis seo anois.
in writing. i voted for the report on organic labelling because it still allows for national labelling. this means that, although the proposed eu label recognises a diluted version of organic foods, particularly in terms of gmo content, national labelling can still signal the absence of gmos in organic products in an eu member state’s own market.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on this comprehensive and balanced report. there are a number of statements in this report that have given rise to some debate, but i would pose the question: is there anything in this report that should not apply to a member of my family? and whether members of my family live in ireland or in poland or indeed if they are third country nationals, i would want the provisions in this report to apply to them. so, if we really mean to promote decent work for all and not just those who because of their birth, their position in society or education can access decent work, then this report is a major step in the right direction. as i said, this report is balanced. just as a member of my family might be seeking work, they might equally be a small entrepreneur, an sme struggling to survive and thereby create decent work. this report promotes business that does not seek to exploit, that does not engage in social dumping and that does not violate core labour standards. i suspect that most of us would like to work for, or indeed manage such companies. there is constant tension between the demands of the market and the promotion of a just and equitable society. one group of workers, carers – in fact the largest single group of workers in europe – often falls between two stools. the market does not recognise or reward them as they do not contribute significantly to gdp growth. yet they are the glue that holds society together. without this group of workers societal structures as we know them would collapse, and then who would the market serve?
madam president, there is no question that in some countries exploitation of workers is the norm. we rightly criticise this but we buy, wear, eat and drink the products of abusive labour on a daily basis. as long as we do not insist, the abuse goes on. but decent work is a two-way street. working conditions must be fair for the worker, but also the worker must perform his or her service in a fair and responsible way. it is only when there is mutual decency and respect in the european workplace that the eu will be competitive and socially sustainable. i would like to congratulate mrs panayotopoulos on her report. she has covered all the areas of vulnerability – young workers, mothers, even breastfeeding mothers, part-time and older workers. she even mentions home workers, and i would like to think that this includes the unpaid family carer of children, disabled people and older family members.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his presentation today. i was struck by the ideals of compromise and consensus contained within his speech. particularly when we look forward to europe’s future, it is a europe that has to be based on consensus, because, as mr daul said earlier on, if europe means anything, europe means equality. europe means equality between nations, between peoples, between cultures. europe means equality between all people within the european union. that means that you cannot drive a coach-and-four and force everybody down the same path. it makes it more difficult to find agreement, yes, but it is still the best way of finding agreement. what we heard yesterday from mr prodi was not the new way forward, it was a threat: a threat that we will create a two-speed europe for those who are with us and those who are against us, words more reminiscent of george w. bush than of a european statesman. i am convinced that the future development of european policy and european ideals will not come from telling people to look at the great opportunities they have lost, to look at the things that they have thrown away. it will come by us convincing people that this is the best way forward, that this is the best path to follow. many here have mentioned issues such as climate change, pension security, energy security and others. yes, europe can play a role and europe can do things that are positive. likewise, with regard to immigration and our own internal security, we can do things in a cooperative and consensual way that can achieve good. we have already done that, but there are still things that are best left to member states, things that require unanimous agreement in the council, not qualified majority all of the time. i think it is wrong, and i use this opportunity to point this out again. commissioner kovács and others are coming forward with proposals for harmonisation of taxes that they do not have the power to implement under the present treaties and which the new treaty would not give them the power to implement, and yet they continue to do it. why? because it is ideologically driven. it is a political move and one that is driving people further and further away. if officialdom can ignore the rules, why should we not ignore them too? george bernard shaw once said that some men see things as they are, and wonder, ‘why?’. we should dream things as they should be, and say, ‘why not?’. consensus, compromise, cooperation – yes, that is the way forward, but most importantly of all, we must convince the people that it is the right way forward. (applause)
in writing. – how is this still going on? there have been so many genocides in the past 100 years and each time we say it will never happen again. but we know it is happening right now in darfur, and the world knows it is happening – so why are we so powerless to stop it? in my own country of ireland we have been able to silence the gun and bring communities together that we never thought imaginable. so why are we so unable to make headway in this part of the world? to answer this question, we need to look at the situation in darfur in a different way. if the world’s sympathy and our resolutions could bring peace and relief to the people of sudan it would have arrived long ago. we can continue to call on an unresponsive government in sudan to change its ways, or we can look at why the support for its intransigence continues. we must cut the lifelines that are fuelling the destruction in darfur, lifelines like chinese oil money and russian weapons. until we are willing to stand up to these powers our resolutions will remain impotent and ineffective.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, maidir le bunreacht nua a chruthú don aontas eorpach, tá sé an-thábhachtach go dtabharfar cluas éisteachta do shaoránaigh uilig an aontais. ní hiad muintir na fraince agus na hísiltíre amháin atá buartha faoi bhunreacht an aontais eorpaigh - tá go leor tíortha eile buartha freisin. bhí am againn machnamh a dhéanamh ar an mbunreacht le bliain anuas. caithfidh ceannairí na mballstát cinneadh a dhéanamh anois ar bhunreacht nua a bhunú ag an gcéad chruinniú eile den chomhairle. i would like to thank both rapporteurs, mr barón crespo and mr brok, who have tremendous experience. i thank them for their work with this own-initiative report. it comes at a critical time when the members of the council need to be edged and pushed in a certain way. that requirement is not because of what we here in parliament want to see with regard to the future development of the european union, but because of the necessity to ensure that the voices of the peoples of the european union are properly reflected at all levels of administration and operation of the european union in the future. if anything, the success of the european union has been the uniqueness of the institutions predicated upon the basis of consensus, compromise and equality, and the need to maintain that kind of balance to ensure that it does not become a two-tier europe; to ensure that donald rumsfeld’s notion of an old and a new europe will never come to fruition. rather, we need a europe working together, le chéile, and cooperating together for the benefit of all the peoples. however, our primary source must be the agreed text that we already have. let us look at the uniqueness of the convention that came up with that text. let us ensure that we maintain the core of that text whilst at the same time making the necessary adjustments to guarantee that all member states can agree and sign up to it and that none feel threatened by it. our task today is to ensure that the message goes out loud and clear that parliament supports future developments of the european treaty that rightly reflect the new member states and rightly reflect the balances that must be maintained for the successful operation of a europe of nations of equality.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to thank the high representative and the commissioner for their presentations here today. rather than speak about all the countries in such a short time, i shall concentrate on palestine, because everything that happens in every other part of the middle east relates to the situation in israel and palestine. looking at the debates that took place at the special session of the un security council 40 years ago in 1967, after the start of the six-day war, it is interesting to see that the potential solution or plan considered was a guarantee of israeli security and borders based on a withdrawal by israeli forces from the occupied territories and a two-state solution. forty years later, the quartet has failed to deliver on what should be the simplest of all goals: to bring people around to this way of thinking. we have made mistakes at european level with our negative reaction to the election of the hamas government in palestine, which sent out the wrong signal, allowing radical groups to take control on the ground and leading people to say ‘there is no point in voting for these people or bringing these people in because the europeans will cut off the money’. that is why it was so important, as the commissioner rightly said, that funding was restored through the emergency mechanism. that work must continue, because only by building relations and building dialogue between the peoples can we guarantee that there will be a resolution. that resolution must be predicated on the same principles as 40 years ago: a two-state solution, a guarantee of secure borders and justice and equity for all peoples in israel and in palestine.
mr president, sometimes i get very dispirited when listening to the debates in this house on this issue, particularly when i hear mr tannock and mrs hybášková, who seem intent on laying down conditions in this house for a solution in the middle east. it is not for us to set preconditions for the israelis and the palestinians in terms of how they will address each other in the peace negotiations. the only preconditions necessary for successful peace negotiations are a demonstrable commitment to peace on each side, a mandate to negotiate on each side and the capacity to deliver on the commitments made in the negotiations. all other preconditions which meps in this house seek to apply to israelis and palestinians are so much hot air. they have no effect and there is no possible likelihood that they will be met in a situation in which the palestinian authority, in particular, is at the point of collapse. if that authority, that unity government, collapses, then nothing we say and nothing the european union does will prevent the appalling bloodbath that will follow, for the israelis and for the palestinians. the role of the international community is to ensure that the patrons of each side in this conflict – the quartet and the arab states – set aside their immediate short-term interests and put the interests of the palestinians and the israelis first. we must seek to ensure that they come to the table and address the outlines that are already there, and which have been for some time, as regards the possibilities and conditions for peace. it is time we stopped talking and started to act in the interests ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we in the eu demand full traceability from our farmers. we expect traceability from farm to fork and each step on that journey from farm to fork is tagged, inspected and monitored. the european consumer expects high standards and rightly so. that is how we do our business in the eu. how, then, can commissioner mandelson and commissioner kyprianou stand over the importation of approximately 300 000 tons of brazilian beef each year when there are foot and mouth disease outbreaks on a continuing basis, when controls on cattle movement are at best lax and in many cases non-existent, where there is widespread illegal removal and cutting out of tags, and the use of hormone growth promoters? how can our commissioners preside over such double standards and place the european consumer and livestock sector in a situation where they are exposed to unacceptable and indeed unnecessary risks, when countries like the us refuse to accept brazilian beef because it is not up to the required standard?
mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his work. i hope members heard his first comment, which expressed his annoyance with the bureau for being one step ahead of us. i think that has been noted. we might like them to be ahead in other cases where they are not, but on this they should not be one step ahead of parliament. i want specifically to talk about information policy, because, to coin a phrase, 'i was that soldier'. in a past life, i was one of those journalists brought to parliament. we would do well to look at how things have not worked in the past to ensure that we do not spend money making the same mistakes. i agree with bringing local journalists over, but all news is local, as is all politics, and members of this parliament have a huge amount of work to do to translate those big documents that have been presented into real stories that affect real people. if we are not able to do that, we should not bring journalists to brussels. however, we should try and we should do that next year.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur. my colleague mr nicholson has not exactly stolen my thunder, but i want to repeat some of his thunder, and the commissioner will know that i am like a long playing record. i support the idea of producer groups but i am not at all convinced that we will ever have the matching power of the retail sector. i have said it before and i repeat it now that the commission is unwilling to take on the elephant in the room, i.e. the very powerful retail sector in europe which is particularly powerful in the uk and in the republic of ireland. after you launched your debate on this particular subject we had farmers in ireland on television declaring that they would no longer grow fruit and vegetables because there was no profit to be made in it because they could not get the prices they needed. however, let us see what happens from this reform. i hope that this report which we propose for 2010 will look at the impact in terms of the balance of power, which currently lies in the wrong direction. the idea of consumption and health is a very positive one but i think every time we tell the european public that it is healthy to eat fruit and vegetables they seem to eat less of them, so we need to think of a different message. i like the idea of school fruit schemes and i would ask that your impact assessment take into account the many pilot projects. there is one in particular in ireland that works and you probably have details of it, but good luck with it and i hope it works for the fruit and vegetable producers of europe.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate chancellor merkel and minister steinmeier for their tremendous efforts so far in trying to find common ground and areas of agreement between what are very disparate ideas as regards the future of europe. in saying that, he did not want to tell us everything that he knows or everything that he has experienced over the last number of months of these negotiations and discussions. it is also quite amazing and shocking that there is a failure to take movements on core principles and issues of the berlin declaration that was agreed by all member states and approved by this parliament. we already have agreements on that where we can act together. we spoke eloquently yesterday in this parliament about the 40th anniversary of the six-day war and all the things that we could be doing and should be doing if only we had a constitution. we do not need the constitution to take immediate action to solve the humanitarian crisis for the people of palestine. that can be done simply by agreement and by decision. we have already made some moves towards that. there are other areas in which we can move forward, so this idea that has been put forward that without this final agreement we will suddenly fall into a state of paralysis, is incorrect. mechanisms will be found to overcome the problems and the difficulties. in saying that, i believe we should have a new constitution. i believe we should have a new treaty that clearly sets out the roles and defines the powers of the european institutions. i believe that the rights of the citizen should be protected within that constitution or within that treaty. i believe that the ongoing goals and ideals of the european union should be clearly expressed within that constitution, that it should stand for democracy, freedom and the rights of peoples; that it should ensure that the rights of member states are not undermined and to ensure that the voice of the peoples through their elected representatives is allowed an equal voice with other institutions within other organisations. but i also believe that there is an onus on us when we speak about what the people want to see us doing. the people do not want to see us taking on new initiatives that we do not have the power to do at the present time. in fact i was quite shocked that the president-in-office of the ecofin council made such a bombastic and ballistic attack on a single country when he was supposed to be acting in a neutral position. mr steinbrück wrongly made an attack on ireland and wrongly made an attack with regard to the arrangements that were put in place and agreed by the member states and the european commission. finally, when we look to the future of the european union, the future that we must deliver to our children and our grandchildren must be better than what our grandparents gave to us, and they gave it to us out of the ashes of the second world war. look at the beautiful child that they created. let us make that child an adult fit for the 21st century.
a uachtaráin, tá sé thar am anois ag an aontas eorpach teacht ar shocrú maidir le conradh nua don aontas. is é conradh nice atá i bhfeidhm i láthair na huaire. ní cheadaíonn an conradh sin ach 27 ballstát a bheith san aontas, rud a chreidimse atá éagórach. mar shampla, comhlíonann an chróit na coinníollacha uile le bheith ina ball den aontas eorpach. ní féidir léi teacht isteach, áfach, toisc nach gceadaíonn conradh nice níos mó 27 ballstát. tacaím le conradh an aontais eorpaigh a bheith níos simplí, ach caithfear cothromaíocht a chothú idir ballstáit mhóra agus ballstáit bheaga sa bhealach ina ndéantar ionadaíocht orthu sna hinstitiúidí éagsúla. creidim go gcaithfidh conradh nua a bheith i bhfeidhm againn don aontas eorpach roimh an gcéad toghchán eorpach eile sa bhliain 2009. tá guth an-láidir ag an eoraip mar phobal ar stáitse an domhain mhóir. caithimid a chinntiú anois go bhfuil muinín ag ár bpobal féin as an aontas.
mr president, i just want to point out that the irish members of the ppe-de group will not be participating, as ireland unfortunately is not part of schengen. it is the position we take in the council, so we will take it here as well.
in writing. we have problems with the sis and particularly the planned sis ii, which will create enormous databases with too few guarantees to protect the privacy of citizens. however, this report does not change the nature of the current system, just extends it to new member states. without access to sis, the citizens of these countries will not be allowed to travel freely in the rest of the eu. for these reasons we voted in favour of the report.
in writing. i voted against amendment 43 relating to so-called ‘measures in the event of imminent danger’ in the abovementioned report as i believe that measures put forward do not represent an effective means of combating cross-border crime.
mr president, i just wish to say that the irish delegation and my colleagues in the ppe-de group voted in favour of this report. we are happy with its emphasis on the role of producer groups and crisis management. however, we have a problem with two amendments, 11 and 111, which were voted through together. these two amendments will pose particular problems for potato growers in ireland who are currently losing significant entitlements to the single farm payment to the national reserve because the land they use for growing potatoes is not eligible for the single farm payment as things stand. we welcome the commission’s proposal to remove this exclusion and to change this anomaly, and we hope that the commission’s proposal is ratified by the council, not the one as amended here this morning.
in writing. the constitutional treaty is a landmark document which provides a blueprint for a more dynamic and effective european union, strengthens the democratic character of an enlarged union and enhances our decision-making capacity and ability to act on the world stage. we are committed to preserving to the greatest extent possible the substance of the constitution. we support this report. we reject the concept of a two-tier europe. however, we have voted against paragraph 11 regarding the diminution of the protection of the rights of citizens because of its vagueness. how is this decided and who decides that the protection of rights of citizens has been diminished? we have also voted against paragraph 20, which demands that all member states coordinate their ratification procedures in order to allow for simultaneous ratification. how can we coordinate between different systems of member states particularly when some require ratification by referenda and others by parliament? we need to respect the ratification system of each member state. saying this, we encourage governments to come together and decide on as short a timeframe as possible for agreement and ratification of a treaty according to their national requirements. we voted in favour of ca28 as the language is more reflective of the reality than that of the pse amendment regarding ratification in france and the netherlands. (abbreviated in accordance with rule 163(1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing. i voted against paragraph 20 (original text) in the above-mentioned report as i believe that the proposal to hold a ratification process simultaneously across all eu member states is impractical.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report but with a cautionary note in terms of the proposed increase in spending on information, as it would relate to a proposal to bring local journalists here to brussels. we would need to be very clear about what we are going to do with the local journalists and ensure that we make information that is available here relevant to the people who read and listen to local media. i do not think we have done that particularly well in the past, so we need more details on this issue.
mr president, this is a decisive period in wto negotiations. the g4, that is the eu, the us, india and brazil, are meeting in potsdam for a number of days this week, and commissioners mandelson and fischer boel will also be in attendance. all of us wish to see an equitable deal negotiated, but it cannot be a deal at any price. if we make further concessions on agriculture, which is exactly what commissioner mandelson, going beyond his mandate, seems to be doing, then the future of agriculture in the eu is in jeopardy. i know that the cap is not the most revered or loved policy in this parliament, but we cannot dismantle it in one fell swoop and throw agriculture into crisis. what happens in potsdam this week and at the general affairs council meeting next monday will be crucial to the wto negotiations. i am very concerned about the direction of these negotiations as spearheaded by commissioner mandelson. i call on commissioner fischer boel to defend the interests of european agriculture and not to allow a sell-out. the undermining of eu agriculture will not benefit anybody.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very comprehensive report. i agree with the rapporteur that the union’s task is not to finance the deployment of broadband. that is indeed the task of the market. however, i also agree with commissioner kroes’s statement that the commission can, in certain circumstances, allow state aid if it is clear that market forces will not or cannot fill the high-speed communications gap. ‘white areas’ – i.e. areas which are rural, underpopulated and commercially unattractive to broadband providers – must be part of the interconnection that we all speak of today. ireland, with approximately one-third of its population living in rural areas, has poor broadband penetration. this matter needs to be addressed as a matter of urgency and state aid may well need to be part of the package. rural areas throughout the eu must be part of the broadband revolution, otherwise areas already lagging behind will fall further behind and we will be unable to achieve a balance of development between the regions. as the rapporteur himself put it, we need growth with cohesion.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr libicki for taking the initiative of bringing this matter before the house tonight. i welcome also my own opportunity to make a contribution to this debate. as regards the treatment of people with multiple sclerosis, and indeed the prevention of their marginalisation from society, there is a huge disparity in the way in which people affected by multiple sclerosis are treated across the european union. consequently, many thousands of people and their families suffer unnecessarily a poor quality of life. access to essential drugs, therapies and services, are too often not driven by need, but by where a person happens to reside and whether their government invests sufficiently in those needs. it is a sad fact that it is not always the case of member states not having the resources to provide such care and services. my own country, ireland, is a prime example. we have had 10 years of enormous economic growth and wealth, and yet we still have one of the lowest ratios of neurologists to patients among the eu’s wealthy nations. we need more research to advance our understanding of the illness and how best to treat it. regrettably, in this house we constantly face opposition to such research, particularly embryo stem cell research, which offers the best hope for making advances. finally, it is not appropriate to allow a situation to continue in which citizens of the european union are treated unequally. while i acknowledge that it is primarily a responsibility of the member states to deliver health care, it is also a responsibility of the european commission to ensure that equality is applied across the board. i would like to see them sponsoring a ‘race to the top’ in terms of services for people with disabilities generally, but certainly people with multiple sclerosis. i believe publication of the progress being made by member states signing up to this code of conduct would help drive that race to the top.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, people who live with ms came to us in the committee on petitions to alert us to the discrepancies in treatment and opportunities for people with ms across the eu. geography should not determine whether your disease goes into remission or progresses. in my own country of ireland, we have one of the lowest ratios of neurologists to patients: 17, where we should have a minimum of 39, a fact that negatively affects the outcome for irish patients. i would like to correct mr de rossa: stem cells obtained from the destruction of embryos have, to date, produced no treatments, whereas stem cells from cord blood have produced over 70 treatments, and it is to be hoped that, some day, there will be a treatment for ms. finally, i would like to point out that, in spite of modern medicine and the abundance of food and water, the burden of disease in the eu is increasing. why? because instances of ms and every other autoimmune condition, of which there are many, are on the increase. there is a widespread breakdown in the functioning of the human immune system. this is a crisis that we should not ignore. it is time to take an honest look at the unnatural and constant way in which modern life bombards the human immune system from its earliest stages, resulting in problems like poor immune development and immune collapse... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the most important thing we have to remember here today is the people’s lives that are affected by the new wave of violence in the palestinian territories. in particular, we must think of the women and children, whose suffering is not something that has occurred just because of the hamas takeover in gaza, or just because of a lack of negotiation between the palestinian and the israeli authorities, or just because of the cancellation of aid from the european union and the us; their suffering goes back 30 years. anybody you speak to from the palestinian area will tell you that it has always been the women and the children who have suffered most, but they have also been the most resilient in trying to find a way forward to challenge the failure to negotiate, the failure to respect and the failure to find a solution; indeed, the failure of both israel and palestine to live up to their commitments, to agreements that they voluntarily signed up to, the failure of the united states of america and the european union to live up to their commitments with regard to clear and open negotiations, the failure of other states bordering israel and palestine to take a more proactive and positive role with regard to, ultimately, achieving a two-state solution, which must be based on viability and equality. colleagues will remember that, some weeks ago in the european parliament building in brussels, the president of parliament invited a number of nobel prize winners to speak on the future of europe and on areas and issues that they are concerned with. it is quite ironic that, when you read through the speeches of the people who were there that day, who won the nobel peace prize, all of them said that the peace efforts they were involved in only came about through dialogue, respect for diversity, tolerance and equality. what we have seen in palestine over the last 30 years has been a failure to meet any one of those four criteria. when yasser arafat was the leader of the palestinian people, israel said it could not deal with him, it could not negotiate with him. when a new president was brought in, israel said it could not deal with him, it could not negotiate with him and they were backed up all the time by the americans and by certain member states of the european union. to think that what happened in gaza with hamas was an accident is to misread, even with the gift of hindsight, our own failures in the european union and in the us to deal properly with the solutions that may be required. now we have been given a new opportunity to do something. now we have been given a new opportunity to show courage in the face of death and disaster, to show humanity in the face of oppression and injustice, and to stand up and say what is right and what is correct: that we should give aid to the palestinian people, we should insist that israel negotiate with the democratically-elected representatives of the palestinian people and we should back up the palestinian authorities to ensure that the rule of law applies throughout the palestinian territories. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, the crisis and virtual collapse of the equitable life assurance society in 2000 was a tragedy for many hundreds of thousands of policyholders, pensioners and annuitants, not only in the united kingdom but also in other eu member states where equitable life was active. many have suffered serious financial loss and much anguish. equitable life was said to be the world’s oldest mutual life assurance undertaking, dating back to 1762. it enjoyed a very high reputation. how could such an illustrious insurer run into such serious difficulties? what conclusions should be drawn for the eu insurance single market and for the internal market as a whole? the report by parliament’s committee of inquiry, which is before you today, is a very valuable aid for answering those questions. i would like to pay very sincere tribute to the exemplary work carried out by the committee of inquiry. the chairwoman of the committee, mrs mcguinness, and the rapporteur, mrs wallis, deserve the highest praise. the committee worked hard to find the truth and give all concerned, the victims, the regulators, academics and the commission, a chance to make their views known. the report concerns the supervision of equitable life. it also highlights that the way in which transposition and implementation checks were carried out in the mid-1990s was, in retrospect, insufficient. the committee finds that the commission could have done more to make sure that the eu insurance rules were properly implemented and applied. i do not contest the report’s finding. however, the report is fair in recognising that was the way things were done in those days. at that time, the commission did its best with the means at its disposal. i also note with satisfaction the report’s agreement that the commission is not and cannot be the regulator of the regulators. for me, it is most noteworthy and positive that the report’s main concern is to look forward to the future rather than back to the past. so, how can we improve the situation and prevent another equitable life affair in the future? the report makes 47 recommendations. some are addressed to the united kingdom government, some to the commission and others to all community institutions. they cover transposition and the regulatory system, remedies, the role of the commission and the role of committees of inquiry. these are all carefully considered recommendations, which merit very serious examination. i can assure parliament that the commission will give most serious consideration to all recommendations addressed to it. we will, in accordance with normal procedures, give a response to parliament in writing. permit me just to say a few words as regards the insurance sector, which is at the heart of the equitable life affair. in july i intend to present our solvency ii proposal to the college of commissioners. it will reform comprehensively and update insurance supervision and regulation in the european union. a key element of this project is the aim of linking the capital requirements for insurance undertakings much more closely to their precise risk profile. this will not be a zero-failure regime but will, i believe, make a collapse, such as that of equitable life, much more unlikely in the future. the report also addresses the wider issue of how to ensure that community law is correctly applied and how transposition is monitored. the commission will shortly be setting out ideas on how to improve the application of community law. your recommendations provide very valuable ideas in this respect. let me once again thank parliament and the committee of inquiry for its work on this sad affair and record the commission’s commitment to making sure that the necessary lessons are learned at eu level.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, first of all i welcome the commissioner’s endorsement of this report. i think it is an important step on the long road which policyholders have travelled in terms of trying to find a solution to their difficulties. i want to thank the rapporteur and the chairwoman for their work, and the committee staff and members, who worked carefully to analyse the equitable life affair and to draw conclusions and issue recommendations. perhaps even more importantly, they looked at how better to protect european citizens in a single-market environment. this important and reasoned report concerns the plight of 1.5 million european citizens who had invested for their pensions in equitable life, one of europe’s oldest and most respected and trusted mutual life assurance companies. hundreds of thousands of people have suffered real hardship because of the failure of national regulation in the uk and in other countries where equitable life operated. the socialist group supports this report, but not everyone is equally happy with our committee’s findings, as will become clear from some of the contributions here this morning. some argue that the criticism of the uk government is overstated and that insufficient credit is given to the progress made since this crisis emerged. be that as it may, the overwhelming value of this report is that europe’s citizens know that they can come to this parliament and have their case heard, and we have learned as a result of listening to them how we can better defend citizens’ rights to fair play in a single market. there can be no doubt that the uk’s so-called ‘light touch’ regulatory approach encouraged the company to oversell over an extended period, thereby undermining its solvency, which led, in large part, to this disaster. no amount of special pleading or niggling over detail can hide that stark fact. it is equally clear that the company management bears an enormous burden for its irresponsible actions. bearing this in mind, it is legitimate that parliament should call on the uk authorities to examine the possibility of providing recompense to those who have in some cases lost their life savings. it is equally clear that the commission has neither the will nor the resources to ensure the proper transposition of eu law, nor to follow up on its application in the real world of business. in addition to this, we have found that the third life directive itself has serious deficiencies which need to be addressed. i would like to refer to the situation of the 8000 or so irish policyholders, many of whom lost substantial sums. their difficulty in obtaining redress was twofold. they were led to believe that they were investing in a so-called irish fund, which, they discovered, was non-existent. they also discovered that the irish regulator took no interest whatsoever in the operation of equitable life before the crisis and had negligently failed to avail of the option under the third life directive to implement conduct of business rules. this effectively left policyholders at the mercy of a uk regulator who denied any responsibility for non-uk policyholders. i also want to draw attention to the 70 or so conclusions, recommendations and remedies contained in this report, which are the distillation of what we found. while national regulation has improved, there remain large gaps on how we ensure that financial services are passported to operate outside their country of origin. for this reason, i want to conclude by drawing attention to the proposal for collective litigation by consumers in national courts. this would make it possible for people who do not have millionaire bank accounts to seek justice in the courts. collective actions in national courts against transnational companies or national regulators are essential if the principle of ‘no mobility without liability’ is to have any real substance.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom ar dtús buíochas a ghabháil leis an tuairisceoir diana wallis as ucht an tuairisc seo a chur os ár gcomhair. ar ndóigh, táimid ar fad anois ar an eolas faoi an 1.5 milliún duine as ballstáit an aontais eorpaigh, 8 000 éireannach ina measc, a chaill go leor airgid nuair a thit luach na bpinsean agus na gcláracha infheistíochta a bhí á reachtáil ag an gcomhlacht árachais, equitable life. maíonn an tuairisc go leor laigíochtaí rialaithe sa chomhlacht, laigíochtaí a thabharfadh le fios ag pointe i bhfad níos luaithe ná mar a tuigeadh go raibh fadhbanna airgeadais ollmhóra ag equitable life. tagaimse leis an teoiric sin. maíonn an coiste go mba chóir go n-iompródh rialtas na breataine an caillteanas mór airgid a d’fhulaing go leor den phobal. aontaím go láidir leis an moladh atá sa tuairisc, gur chóir do rialtas na breataine scéim chúitimh a chur i bhfeidhm dóibh siúd a chaill airgead mór tré chliseadh equitable life. ba chóir go gcinnteofaí go bhfaigheadh breatanaigh chomh maith le daoine ó thíortha taobh amuigh den bhreatain, cúiteamh as a gcaillteanas. ba chóir go gcuirfeadh ballstáit an ae agus an coimisiún eorpach córas rabhaidh i bhfeidhm, a thabharfadh fadhbanna maidir le rialú comhlachtaí airgeadais le fios go luath. mar fhocal scoir, ba chóir go nglacfadh agus go gcuirfeadh rialtas na breataine le aon mholtaí a dhéanfadh ombudsman pharlaiminteach an ríocht aontaithe, maidir leis na polasuithe a dhíol, a urraigh agus a riaraigh comhlacht árachais equitable life.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur mrs wallis for her dedicated work on equitable life, all the members of the committee, who worked really well together and left politics outside the door – perhaps not all the time but most of the time – and particularly the secretariat, who are with us today, for their diligence. i took on chairing this committee 18 months ago. it was a great honour to take on that job and i think that by listening you learn a lot. i am glad to hear from the commissioner this morning that we are learning from our mistakes. i acknowledge his comments that he does not contest the findings of this report and i also welcome his plans for the future in terms of better regulation and application of eu law. however, there are over a million people who will hear about this debate and who are directly affected by it. the one thing you would have to say is that this debate, and our work, have brought the work of the european union closer to the citizen, because we have in our midst two of the original petitioners – paul braithwaite and tom lake – who came to the committee of inquiry. i welcome there here today. they have stuck with it. i worry, if they had not done so, where would we be? i reckon we would still be rubber-stamping and ticking boxes and nothing would have changed. therefore, even if we do not succeed in compensation – although i stress we will try – they have done a great service not just to their own case but also to the general regulation of financial services. what are our conclusions after 18 months of work? well, that the uk was flawed in its implementation of the third life directive. yes, it ticked the boxes, but its day-to-day application was deficient and inadequate. it failed on a number of different issues, including challenging the dual role of the appointed actuary, focusing too narrowly on solvency margins and other very important issues. the whole light-touch regulatory policy, the disproportionate deference to the equitable management – all of this pointed to lack of control and regulation. too often, we discovered that the home and host state authorities were able to shift responsibility from one to another, leaving non-uk policyholders in a vacuum. for example, the inquiry concluded that both irish and german regulators pursued an unjustifiably passive approach in respect to equitable. i find it particularly regrettable, as an irish mep, that no irish authority assumes responsibility for the inadequate actions undertaken by the irish regulator in relation to equitable life prior to 2003. then, when we look at redress mechanisms, when things went wrong, we discovered a pattern of confusion and much inequality of treatment, as already dealt with by my colleagues. so, i turn to our recommendations. we never misled our petitioners and those who came to the committee and who listened to our work. we never promised compensation, but we strongly believe that the uk government is under an obligation to assume responsibility for this affair and we recommend that it compensate equitable life policyholders within the uk, ireland, germany and elsewhere. in addition, the uk must accept and implement any recommendations of the uk parliamentary ombudsman that she may make in her second report on equitable, which is eagerly awaited. we need to tighten up on many issues around regulation. however, there is a question that needs to be asked following this debacle: if the cross-border dimension of consumer protection is not properly taken into account, can we blame consumers in the eu for not shopping more across borders? as to the question put to our rapporteur by a journalist of whether we would buy these products across borders, the answer is still not particularly clear. we have the recommendations in front of us; we have this major report of almost 400 pages; the commissioner is to take it on board and i appreciate that. i would ask this house to support this report and the recommendations fully and i thank you for your attention.
mr president, policymakers have concentrated for several decades on getting women into the workplace and on breaking down gender bias and promotion in jobs. education has always been seen as a tool in this. in this resolution, however, i think we have failed to look at the difficulties women face in reconciling the rest of their lives which have been glossed over. women were almost forced to forego childbearing, and if they did bear children, they were forced to forego childrearing. if they did choose to rear their children, they were asked to be superhuman to do it. thankfully, women are now forcing us to look at changing this and making things more flexible so that they can reconcile family, work and education. we must be flexible. we must help women to combine these things. or we must even allow women the opportunity to take time off, if they should so choose, in order to have children and to rear them, in the security of knowing that the opportunities will be there when they choose to resume their place in the workplace.
in writing. we welcome the hökmark report on ‘broadband’. we supported amendments which point out that public authorities should make every effort to ensure that all citizens have access to broadband. the benefits of broadband need to be extended to every section of the population of europe, including ireland. we believe that public authorities play a crucial role in ensuring and speeding up the deployment of, and access to, broadband in less economically developed regions where it would be more difficult to create ict infrastructure available at affordable cost and of sufficient standard to provide the necessary services, particularly in rural districts. general access to broadband is an essential prerequisite for social and economic development and cohesion, and improved public services. the benefits of broadband should not be reserved for the few, and ‘info-exclusion’ should be avoided at all costs.
mr president, the votes today on the ferreira report demonstrate once again the relentless attack on countries in europe that operate low corporation tax regimes. the putting in place of a common consolidated corporation tax base means that there will be greater distribution of corporation tax receipts to the exchequers of the larger eu member states at the expense of others. even if eight or more countries agreed to a common consolidated corporate tax base, this would in turn have the effect of invalidating existing bilateral tax treaties with member states that chose to participate in a ccctb arrangement. efforts are already being made by some member states whereby corporation tax receipts would be made in the country where is sold. this would be very bad news from an irish perspective because many of the large companies in ireland only manufacture or produce new goods and services that are sold in the larger eu member states. let nobody be in any doubt – and in particular after the very hostile and negative comments recently made by the german finance minister – that ireland and other countries with low corporation tax regimes face a real battle to keep their low corporation tax structure in place, which has kept employment high, unemployment low and has been one of the main planks of a successful economy.
in writing. i voted against paragraph 13 and the overall report on competition policy 2005. i am opposed to the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base as i believe it would be a first step toward tax harmonisation.
mr president, i should like to join with you in welcoming colm here, replacing our colleague simon coveney, who has been elected to the irish parliament. i take this opportunity to wish simon every success in his future in national politics. we have an excellent replacement in colm burke, from simon’s constituency of cork south.
mr president, at the end of the second world war, when the concentration camps were liberated, we said, ‘never again’: there would never again be such an example of man’s inhumanity to man. we in this house, and all those at the g8 last week, know that there are millions of children under the age of five dying each year for want of vaccines that we, in what is called the west, have had for the last 30 years. this is an even greater insult than what happened in those concentration camps, because we know it is happening. it is happening in front of our eyes. and what have we done? we have abdicated leadership. we have abdicated leadership to rock stars – and thank god for them, because if they were not there to apply pressure, who would do so? this is a devastating lack of leadership in europe. when we talk about communicating europe, we think we can talk to people about constitutional treaties and all of that. it is nonsense. as i have said before, people are not talking about constitutional treaties in pubs in dublin or in restaurants in germany. but look at the people who went to gleneagles, who took time off work to march to gleneagles, who went to all of those rock concerts about the third world. why are we not giving those people leadership? where are the statesmen and stateswomen of europe? all we have are politicians – and poor politicians at that. no delors, no kohl. this issue needs leadership, and the g8 let us down. they did not give the leadership that this issue deserves, and this house has to insist that sort of standard does not continue. we must insist that politicians in the west, within the european union and within the g8 take real leadership on this issue. nothing else is acceptable and you, mr president, have a part to play in this. you could give us leadership in this house. you could influence those who have the ability to change this. we have the ability to change this. we must not accept these standards. the g8 was a grave disappointment to people. it showed that we are really lacking in statesmen, in stateswomen and in leaders, and i hope that changes.
mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs kinnock on her very fine report. it is difficult to speak on this issue in one minute, but i shall try. the difficulty, in my opinion, is not only the amount of money, or the lack of money, donated to africa by the eu or the western world. the problem is also the administration and coordination of this aid. we are all aware of the constraints posed by weak governance in african countries. aid works in many cases, but aid donated without good governance will never make poverty history. one idea that could be looked at is the need for individual european states, or groups of member states, to take on a coordinating role in the administration of aid in individual african countries. this would be a fundamental step towards making the donor countries accountable for the aid they spend. equally, it would demonstrate the best practice in terms of implementing the millennium development goals. i say this on the basis of my experience as a minister in the irish government in dealing with poor communities in dublin and in other european cities, whereby one government agency was responsible for coordinating everything we gave to those communities, and it was very successful. i believe the same thing could be done at european or world level with regard to africa. i do not have enough time to speak on this, but the other big question is trade. without trade, there is no way that africa can pull itself out of poverty. that is another issue that must be addressed. in any case, i believe that we need far greater coordination of the way in which we implement and spend our money in africa. if there is proper coordination we could make improvements in this area. as we all know, it is not a simple task and there are no easy solutions, but we need to make changes to the way we deliver aid to the poorest people in africa.
mr president, a minute is very little to address what is a huge subject. i have been a little bit distressed by some of the mood of this debate and i wonder whether, if we asked african women what they want, they would have had some of the answers that have come up here today. the women i spoke to in malawi certainly spoke about the need for education, for food, for jobs and for hope, and i thought that is what the millennium development goals would give them, but it is clear that we are not going to get there in time. in the 30 seconds i have left i want to address, in particular, the trade aspect of all of this: paragraphs 83 and 89 are particularly interesting. there is a suggestion that the wto negotiations might be an answer to some of the problems of africa and yet paragraph 89 states very clearly that the ldcs will benefit very little from extensive trade liberalisation, and i think africans need to remove barriers to trade within their own continent and look very closely at that issue while we in europe help them develop trade with the rest of the world. but we wish we could do more and i hope that this debate will help in that.
mr president, firstly i welcome this report. i think it is very timely, coming as it does on the eve of the meeting we are about to attend in wiesbaden. however, – i do not know whether the commissioner is actually listening to this debate – sometimes i feel we are like gadflies on the periphery, where we raise issues and they do not get much attention except from ourselves when we write very fine reports of this kind. but i do think that there is an opportunity for innovation and for change. i come from a country where we had famine, literally in recent history – i spoke to somebody who spoke to somebody who lived through the last great famine in ireland: it is that recent. one of the things that made a great change in ireland, as in the united states, was property ownership. i would like to commend both nirj deva and jürgen schröder for constantly raising this issue. i think it is an issue we need to raise. we need to try to bring new ideas such as this one to the fore. if you look at the history of ireland and how the partition of ireland came about, in the north of ireland a lot of people who came there were given small plots of land and ownership of that. from that, they grew flax and they gained capital and prospered. in the south of ireland we had absentee landlords, and tenants who could not afford to pay their way and who had no ownership of their property. the same thing happened in the united states, a country that had huge difficulties in the beginning. people were given ownership of property there, and that made a great change. particularly in africa and in the third world generally, we have to start looking at ways we can give people ownership of capital. i believe that, whereas i welcome and support the general thrust of this report, we need to start looking at new ways and added value that we – parliament, the commission and the council – can bring to the issue of the third world. i think in the area of giving ownership of property, there is an issue worth pursuing.
mr president, one of the issues that will be addressed at the forthcoming acp-eu council meeting in germany next week will be a re-evaluation eu policy on sudan. there is an ever-deteriorating security situation in darfur, and let no one think otherwise. without a safe and secure environment, we cannot access the people most in need. a full-scale humanitarian crisis is being faced by over four million people who are living in darfur at this time. more than half a million people were displaced from sudan in 2006 alone. the international community has simply not been tough enough when dealing with the sudanese government over darfur. the sudanese government has played a game of cat-and-mouse with the international community so that the european union and the united nations would have as weak a role as possible in sudan. i welcome recent moves to increase the presence of african union forces in sudan under what is known as the african union mission there, but the difficulty for these troops is that they are not well trained and there are not enough of them. moreover, the european union must look to tighten the sanctions regime against the sudanese government to incorporate a ban on travel into the european union by key sudanese government members and officials and to block sudanese government representatives from making financial investments in europe.
mr president, clearly the issues that are being addressed in relation to spain are not confined to spain, and i offer that as some consolation to our spanish colleagues on the ppe-de side of the house. similar problems, not in relation to property ownership but certainly in relation to impact on the environment, on heritage and, indeed, on people’s quality of life are occurring as a result of major infrastructural developments in ireland, and it seems to be an issue that we at european level have not been able to get to grips with because the european legislation is not stringent enough or, indeed, the commission is not in a position to act fast enough in terms of addressing complaints when they are made. when i visited madrid, for instance, i was made aware of the situation there, in which the regional authority redesignated a ring round around madrid as a city street, decided to develop it as a motorway, broke it up into about a dozen different pieces and argued that it therefore did not need to have an environmental impact assessment applied to it. now, the commission eventually decided that this was wrong, but three quarters of the motorway had already been built by the time that decision was made.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his response. i suppose in this area, as in all other areas, the clause caveat emptor should always apply first and foremost. however, there are complexities, as you rightly said, and i welcome the fact that you have looked at what the european mortgage providers are considering. however, there is another aspect – the need to have a second will. if you own a property outside your country of residence, it is necessary to have a second will to cover the execution of your estate in that scenario. so, even though there are differences across the 27 member states, and further complexities within them, there are certain core values which could be put up on the commission website, as you rightly say. i would encourage you to work further towards that goal, highlighting at the same time that caveat emptor should always apply first and foremost.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, i also wish to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her work on this very difficult and complex piece of legislation, which, as has already been said, has been going around for about 15 to 20 years. however, as draftsman of an opinion on this report for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i see it as vital that citizens can take the benefit of their supplementary pension plans with them when they take up a new job in another company or in another member state, and the single market is going to see a huge increase in the number of people moving from member state to member state. this legislation must ensure that the workers changing jobs are not unduly penalised and that the value of their pension is fairly adjusted on moving to new employment. in addition, we have to appreciate the fact that employers providing these supplementary pension schemes are doing so on a voluntary basis. therefore, any unnecessary financial pressure stemming from the provision of such schemes should be minimised. balancing the objectives of these two goals is, however, no easy task, but i believe that the compromise texts of the finnish and german presidencies are a step in the right direction. i believe that if workers are encouraged to be mobile and flexible, then they cannot be unduly punished through their pensions if they change jobs. currently, moving to a new job or to work in another country can lead to significant losses. on top of that, we must ensure that when somebody takes their money out of a pension scheme, the workers who remain in that pension scheme will not lose out. one of the biggest and most complex challenges facing each of the member states over the next decade will be how we tackle the effect of our ageing population. pensions are going to become – if they have not already become – a huge issue in member states. considering that this piece of legislation has been on the table for the last 15 to 20 years, it is high time that appropriate action is taken on this issue and we make sure that workers are fairly treated and fairly looked after in their pension schemes if they move from one member state to another or from one company to another.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her work. i also share her view that of course what this parliament wants and what the citizens of europe need is a result on this matter, because unquestionably, workers are more mobile for all sorts of reasons, and that is something that is to be encouraged and supported. i find myself in the position of supporting the commission’s original proposal over and beyond the report that is in front of us. i find it inexplicable as to why the age threshold of 21 years is suggested to be raised to 25. i accept that workers very often leave it until much later to even consider their pension entitlement, but i think as a rule of thumb we should be encouraging people to make those provisions and consider those matters at the earliest possible point, so in our group we will be supporting amendments to change those age-related provisions. in addition, i cannot understand why the self-employed are not also covered in these provisions. i think that is very worrying and again our group will vote in accordance with that concern.
madam president, the revelations from the investigation into equitable life have left many people questioning the security of their pensions. when people make sacrifices in their working years to set aside funds for their retirement, they do it for one reason and one reason alone: their own security and that of their family. with demographic projection showing an ageing europe, people feel they cannot trust their future to state pensions. states will be pragmatic and do what they have to do when over a third of their population is over 65. today’s workers look at the state pension programmes as a foundation on which to build their incomes by supplementary schemes for what might be 20, 30 or even 40 years of life after retirement. i recognise that it is difficult to find a balance of protecting existing pension situations while creating a framework that will withstand the kind of pressure that will mount on pensions as europe ages and that will also ensure that pensioners do not spend their entire retirement fighting to get their money back, having set it aside during their working years.
madam president, i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten and all of those involved in finding a broad consensus on this extremely complex area. we need a strong vote today for the oomen-ruijten report and we need to ensure that the thomas mann amendments are defeated. i would appeal to my colleagues and, indeed, friends in the gue/ngl group to swallow hard and to give their support at the final vote today. it is a great pity that after 20 years’ debate on portability and acquired rights we end up dealing with a directive that only really addresses the issue of acquired rights and not portability. nevertheless, i support this particular approach at this point in time. i fully understand why we are in the position we are in, and we need an indication from the member states that they are going to address seriously the obstacles that prevent full portability. the veto in council in this area of policy has to be dropped. i do not specifically mean, necessarily, on this particular directive – although i believe that should be so – but the general issue of the veto in the area of social policy needs to be dropped. i do hope that the upcoming igc will address that issue in the next few months. more qualified majority voting will not steamroll anybody into any position, but it will oblige member states and the council to address the issues and to negotiate rather than to obstruct. following today’s vote, the council, i believe, must get serious. they cannot expect trade unions to accept adaptability with regard to labour law reform if they are not prepared to address this key issue of worker security.
madam president, i fully support mobility of workers and greater portability of pensions, but it is important that this proposal on a very complex and specialist issue does not result in a reduction in the number of employers willing to offer voluntary pension schemes to employees. we need to allow employers who can afford to do so to offer generous pensions in order to attract and reward high-calibre personnel. a recent eurobarometer survey shows that 50% of younger employees and 30% of those in the 45-54 age group all expect to change jobs within the next five years, so making sure pensions savings follow employees throughout their career should be our goal. in this regard, i support our rapporteur mrs oomen-ruijten’s efforts on the preservation of dormant rights. as member states’ statutory pension schemes face increased challenges on demographics and the dependency ratio, supplementary pension schemes are becoming more and more important. however, companies need to be able to offer pensions at an entry level that is viable for them. i can live with the compromise reached by the council on this matter that, in cases where schemes stipulate a minimum age, this may not exceed 25 years. in ireland, 54% of all employees are in occupational pension schemes, and the vesting period is two years. this works well for us, but i can accept a five-year vesting period to alleviate cost fears and to achieve a compromise to ensure the transfer of capital from the private sector pension schemes without undermining them. i hope there is a resolution of difficulties sooner rather than later and that the commission’s revised proposal charts a more acceptable path both for the council and for parliament. after all, our objective is, as the commissioner said, not harmonisation, but minimum requirements, to ensure that it is not a case of ‘you move, you lose your deferred pension rights’.
in writing. the second modified proposal introducing biometric data information into regulation 1030/2002 laying down a uniform format for residence permits for third country nationals raises several concerns as regards its technical feasibility, financial costs and the risk of its abuse. it is still not clear whether the introduction of biometric identifiers really does increase security or whether it is rather a threat to security through the risks of abuse, technological flaws and lack of transparency and sound data protection. the original commission proposal has also turned out to be technically impossible and the financial resources destined for its development have been partly wasted. due to these reasons, we cannot support the commission's modified proposal, which would again only raise the financial costs and technical difficulties and would be entirely inadequate to the aim of added value in security.
in writing. we have voted against amendments suggesting that liquid mercury should be stored in above-ground facilities. no impact assessments have been carried out by the commission on the safety of such storage and there is no technology available to solidify liquid mercury. storage of mercury in an above-ground facility is therefore questionable in terms of safety and in terms of time (the amendments suggest that this storage would be temporary). without new technology, storage would not be temporary. on the other hand, impact assessments have been undertaken by the commission for the storage of liquid mercury in salt mines and deep underground hard rock formations and has been confirmed safe. we are very much aware that technology could be developed in the near future. we very much welcome the council's agreement to a european parliament request to include in the proposed regulation a review on extension of the scope of the regulation and a review of other options available for the storage of mercury in 2010.
in writing. we voted in favour of part one of paragraph 40 and against part 2 of paragraph 40. similarly, we voted in favour of the first part of paragraph 41 and against the second part. we abstained on the vote for the resolution as a whole. the reason for this is that we did not wish to indicate that we support any interpretation of the word ‘rights’ as indicating a support for abortion. we do, of course, support the general thrust of the millennium goals and therefore did not vote against the resolution as a whole.
mr president, i want to thank mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou for an important report, which reflects the excellent work the european union is doing through the meda programme. i have one caveat, however, relating to recital n, which does not reflect the realpolitik of the situation following the formation of the national unity government. i believe that particular reference should be amended to more accurately make that reflection. the european union and the quartet did not respond quickly or pragmatically enough, in my view, to the achievement of the formation of the unity government by the democratically elected representatives of the palestinians. i believe that this failure on our part was the straw that broke the camel’s back. we now have a coup d’état in gaza which threatens the longed-for peaceful future of the palestinian people. yes, it has to be condemned, but any novice politician could have predicted this development. indeed, many of us who are more long-toothed did so last month in this very house. after 40 years of brutal occupation and constant humiliation by the israeli authorities, coupled with the world’s refusal world to act in accordance with its own democratic norms and to recognise the democratic choice of palestinians, it is not surprising that palestine is undergoing this crisis now. even at this late stage, europe must seek to act in partnership with all the elected representatives of the palestinian people to restore confidence in politics, in negotiations and in elections. we must do what we can to help restore law and order, which is just as important to the palestinian people at present as humanitarian aid.
mr president, this report makes grim reading. more teens are getting involved in delinquency at a younger age and their actions are more brutal. this is so serious for the young people involved and for everyone in society that we have to find solutions, but we have to be accurate in our analysis of the problem. the report includes a list of the critical formative influences on children: families, schools, friends and socioeconomic circumstances. in the interests of accuracy, i would add to this list: mass media and telecommunications, by which i mean movies, television, computer games and the internet – and, now, the new mobile phone technologies. studies show that children spend more time with the mass media than with all the other influences put together. articles 13 and 17 of the united nations convention on the rights of the child, which is cited as the first authority in this report, seem to give children an absolute right to mass media and telecommunications and to give mass media and telecommunications absolute access to children. with their present content of violence, hatred, racism and pornography, and their use by child predators – all possible contributors to delinquency – should we see the mass media as having this absolute right and children having such an absolute right? if any of the other influences on this list, such as family or school, were abusing or damaging children, we would remove the child for their safety. as we implement the un convention of the rights of the child in the eu and in members states, we must rethink articles 13 and 17. they were written in 1989, when people did not understand what the internet would be like in 2007. we must also look at the role of fathers. psychologists tell us that mothers give a child a sense of their own identity and their identity in the family, whereas fathers socialise the child and help them to know acceptable behaviour.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report. i would like to bring to your attention a new report on juvenile delinquency published in ireland in the last few weeks, which shows that four out of five young people in our detention schools have psychiatric problems. the emotional intelligence, mental health and juvenile delinquency report was carried out by two academics from university college dublin, and it is the first time that this type of research has been carried out anywhere in the world, so it is significant in terms of this debate. it shows that two thirds of all juvenile offenders suffer from conduct-disorder conditions such as adhd. more than half are abusing drink and drugs; some began using cannabis and alcohol as young as nine years old and began taking cocaine when they were aged just 13. the research shows that young people experience very high rates of psychiatric disorders, they engage in serious criminality and have significant deficits in emotional intelligence and cognitive ability. as i have said, it is significant because this is the first time such research has been carried out. eight out of ten of the young boys in this research meet diagnostic criteria for at least one serious psychiatric disorder. the researchers identified that these young people had, on average, experienced three psychiatric disorders. this equates to almost three times as many disorders among boys who had been referred to a psychiatric service because of the difficulties they were experiencing. unfortunately, the difficulties highlighted by this research are not addressed in our current service provision for these young people. the vast majority fail to receive any treatment for the problems they have, and this report highlights – and i would say this applies across europe as well – the importance of addressing these difficulties. in addition to reducing the effects that mental health problems have on children’s functioning and development, treatment will lead to a significant reduction in offending behaviour and criminality and, therefore, has significant benefits for society and the legal system – in ireland and, certainly, in the eu as a whole – so i would recommend this research to the house.
i have heard what the council has said, but i think it is sidestepping the issue here. at the moment we are negotiating with the g4 in potsdam and i would like to know whether we can ignore the recommendations of the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, which called for a ban on the import of beef from brazil. can we ignore the conclusions of the final report on a mission carried out in brazil by the european food and veterinary office, which tell us quite clearly that the present system of residue and veterinary medicine control is not adequate? major shortcomings remain in the design, scope and implementation of the national residue control plan. i should like to ask the same question as the others. do you not agree that now is the time to take action and to protect european consumers?
beidh ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh ag bualadh le chéile an tseachtain seo, agus iad ag iarraidh conradh nua don ae a chur le chéile. beidh béim ar leith á chur acu ar chúrsaí dlí agus cirt. dar liomsa, ní chóir go mbeadh an chumhacht ag an ae socruithe dlí agus cirt a dhéanamh le vótáil trí thromlach cáilithe toisc go bhfuil córas dlí coiteann i bhfeidhm ag éire agus an bhreatain. is córas dlí sibhialta atá i bhfeidhm ag na ballstáit eile san ae. the reality of what we have to deal with, of the new threats that are posed before us, whether it is terrorism, people trafficking, drug trafficking, asylum, illegal immigration and the pressures that are put on the services that deal with all these areas, highlight one single point most of all: human interaction or human involvement is at the core of all these areas. it is incumbent on us within the european union to ensure that we put every tool at our disposal, not only to guarantee the safety and security of our own regions and areas but also to ensure that the rights of people are protected: those who may be suspects, or even those who may have met a suspect at some stage. we find too often that, merely by association, you could be guilty of committing a crime under some of the new draconian laws that have been brought into different countries. that is why cooperation and coordination between the various member states is important, because not only does it facilitate and allow the free movement of information and intelligence, which is essential in tackling so many of these crimes, but it also allows for best practice to be in force among the police forces or security services that may not be as good as others. in the committee on employment and social affairs, we used to have the idea of the ‘open coordination’ method whereby good things led to the other good things. there are positive things in european union countries that other countries can follow, not just third countries but also member states. because of the complexity of the legal systems that in the different member states, there still needs to be oversight by the council of ministers. this is not an area that can be given exclusively to european union competence. i hope that at the weekend we will find a proper compromise towards that.
in writing. the eu and the international community bear a heavy responsibility for the current tragedy in palestine. their failure to bring pressure to bear on israel, the impunity afforded to the israeli authorities, their refusal to talk to democratically elected politicians and their sanctions against the palestinian authorities have led us to where we are today. the eu must now grasp the political responsibility by opening political dialogue with all relevant actors in palestine – in gaza as well as the west bank. we have to help the palestinian people by engaging in dialogue with the specific intention of aiding the establishment of a unified, viable and secure palestinian state. for these reasons we have decided to abstain on this report.
a uachtaráin, a uachtaráin in oifig na comhairle, a uachtaráin an choimisiúin, comhghairdeachas leis an seansailéir merkel agus leis na daoine go léir i rialtas na gearmáine. first of all i should like to say that, when we speak of the results of the last week’s summit, so much time and effort is given to reported emotions in the media or to the interpretation of what one person said to another, whereas the reality should be that we celebrate the success of the ability of all the leaders of all the member states of the european union to follow the leadership given by the german chancellor, the president-in-office, angela merkel, in finding and charting a way forward for the future development of the european union. in particular, because of the sensitivities that are involved in so many areas, whether it is the issue of votes in the council, the rights of national parliaments or codecision in the area of justice and home affairs, these are fundamental points that are of national importance to those countries and it would be wrong for any leader of any government to fail to put forward their concerns with regard to those areas. however, despite the hot wind that blows around many of these summits, success was achieved and it was achieved because the core principles of the european union – i.e. compromise, consensus, understanding and tolerance – were brought together under your great stewardship, chancellor merkel. the other areas in which the german presidency has succeeded over the last six months are ones that we will benefit from in the future – and i say ‘we’ not just to mean those of us in parliament: we as citizens and consumers within the european union will be able to benefit from the work you have done. liebe frau bundeskanzlerin, sie haben eine schwere aufgabe in schwierigen zeiten gemeistert. vielen dank! apologies for my german!
mr president, i am concerned about the situation concerning non-national lettori, or lecturers, in italian universities. they have fought for equality for over 20 years, they have won four european court of justice cases, but the italian universities persist in discriminating against them. more recently, the european court of justice inexplicably found in favour of italy, contrary to the advice of the advocate-general. the commission has now closed its case against italy rather than seeking a revision of the new european court of justice ruling. this decision was made despite documentary evidence that discrimination continues. i urge the president to make contact with the commission – with commissioner špidla in particular – and insist that european citizens’ rights to equal treatment in the workplace, wherever they may work, are respected and defended by the commission. i will send you the background information on this so that you may raise this matter.
rapporteur. – mr president, as rapporteur, i welcome the commission's proposal on food enzymes, along with the other proposals in this package, as do industry and consumer groups generally. this proposal is actually the first piece of specific legislation aimed at food enzymes. enzymes are added to food to perform a wide range of technological functions in the manufacture, processing, preparation, treatment, packaging, transport or storage of foods. they are most commonly used in baking, brewing and cheese production and in the production of alcohol and other beverages. while enzymes have been used for centuries in food production, in the latter half of the 20th century the use of enzymes in food production increased significantly and, since the 1980s, companies which produce enzymes have been using genetic engineering techniques to improve production efficiency and quality and to develop new products. at present, there are no harmonised rules at community level controlling the use of enzymes, creating not only barriers to trade and lack of legal certainty but also differing standards of health and consumer protection across the 27 member states with only three member states having their own risk assessment procedures at present, namely the united kingdom, france and denmark. a regulation on food enzymes will therefore improve the operation of the single market in this area and thus promote european innovation and competitiveness, while ensuring a high level of consumer and environmental protection. the proposed common authorisation procedure, for which mrs westlund is rapporteur, will also improve the efficiency of the single market with all risk assessments and all authorisations for food improvement agents being undertaken by the european food safety authority. there are just a few points i would like to highlight. commissioner, i am also in favour of the ‘comitology with the right to parliamentary scrutiny’ procedure for this legislation. and i would like to see this harmonised across all four reports in the package, as these are technical reports which are best handled by the experts at efsa and the commission. furthermore, as we are in the early stages of this new scrutiny system, we need to give it time to work before calling it into question. i am concerned about the potential for double authorisation that this new enzyme regulation could create for food enzymes derived from genetically modified organisms which fall under the scope of regulation (ec) no 1829/2003 on genetically modified food and feed. under the present commission proposal, the wording implies that such food enzymes would have to be authorised in accordance with that regulation before they may be assessed under this regulation for inclusion in the community list. while we have assurances that best administrative practice will apply in these cases at efsa, i have proposed plenary amendments to my report to make it clear that efsa could carry out concurrent or simultaneous assessments in accordance with the two pieces of relevant legislation. i support similar amendments to the reports on food additives and flavourings. we need coordinated wording across this package of legislation and there is agreement on this in large part between the council, the commission and industry on how to proceed. food enzymes are not and cannot be gmos. however, an increasing amount of them are derived from genetically modified micro-organisms, and it is important to stress this distinction in order to avoid misunderstandings. in my enzymes report i strongly recommend a single legal base for this regulation as it favours legal certainty which is in the line of most ecj judgments on these matters. dual legal bases generally mean sloppy drafting and leave the measure open to challenge, with respect. this regulation is purely a market harmonisation measure so i would prefer a single legal base in article 95, the internal market legal base, alone. a key issue of concern in the report on food additives is the proposed change in the definition of processing aids contained in several amendments that would require them to be authorised and labelled as additives if they are present in the final product, even when they are not active. this change was not put forward by the commission in its original proposal and would signal a major departure from the current approach in eu food legislation with potentially major consequences for the european food industry. such a change would be out of synch with the codex definition on processing aids and so could adversely affect european competitiveness and international trade. i am also dubious as to whether such excessive label clutter would actually improve consumer information. to conclude, i would like to thank my colleagues for their support and collaboration, particularly mrs westlund and mrs drčar murko. we need to coordinate and harmonise the four pieces of legislation in this package as much as possible in order to achieve coherent and practical regulations that can be easily interpreted and applied in all member states and i look forward to further fine-tuning these reports at second reading.
mr president, yesterday’s media revealed the shocking results of a study of children in a large area of england. one in every 58 children has a form of autism. how could a seriously debilitating condition have increased from 1 in 2000 to 1 in 58 children in 17 years? mr trakatellis’s work on the programme of community action in the field of health 2007-2013 comes at a time when the need for some joined-up, collaborative thinking about europe’s major health threats is urgently needed. one of the most important contributions europe can make to health is statistical research and investigation, establishing the true situation of disease threats – contagious or not, chronic or acute – because, in comparing disease treatment in the member states, we get the overall picture that helps us develop a standard of best practice and clues to both treatments and even cures. the commission, i am glad to say, has made a start by funding the european autism information system project to establish an effective method to be used by member state health authorities to gather the essential information on the autism epidemic in europe. however, we are very late in this. the usa has been tracking this epidemic for a decade now. on foot of the figures, the us congress has passed 16 pieces of legislation channelling billions of dollars, but europe has done nothing yet. i urge the commission to find a way to foster the highest quality healthcare in the member states, a system that will never again allow an epidemic like autism to go unchecked as it ravishes children, robbing them of their normal development.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, scientists in france recently discovered extensive organ damage in the liver and kidney in animals raised on monsanto 863. three years before this, german studies were brought to the attention of efsa by the german authorities that showed kidney damage in rats fed monsanto 863. yet, despite this, efsa has reaffirmed their risk assessment on this and said that it is safe for european farm animals. where are efsa’s studies? why are they just looking at the industry’s tests and just going back over them? how difficult can it be for them to try to redo the french and german studies? the biotech industry in europe alleges that gm farming is inevitable. my fear is that this will just be a self-fulfilling prophesy. europe is capable of supplying its farmers with gm-free grain, but if we accept the inevitability, if we accept safety studies that are not really studies at all, then farmers will be forced into feeding their animals gm because otherwise there will be no other grain. i would remind efsa that many products, after years of so-called ‘safety’, have been taken off the market. to give you one example, the polio vaccine we use today is the fourth polio vaccine, because the other three, after having been given to people for many years, were finally withdrawn because of mounting evidence of damage. we are supposed to respect the precautionary principle in europe, especially when we are talking about putting genetically-modified organisms into the environment, considering that, with gm, any resulting adverse effects may be irreversible.
a uachtaráin, is é prionsabal na seirbhísí domhanda an ghné is tábhachtaí de na moltaí seo, dar liom. ciallaíonn an prionsabal sin go gcaithfear seirbhís poist a chur ar fáil do chuile theach agus gnó san eoraip, cúig nó sé huaire sa tseachtain. mar sin, beidh ar chuile bhallstát an córas sin a chur i bhfeidhm agus go gcinnteoidh sé go mbeidh an tseirbhís sin ar fáil i ngach ballstát. agus tá seans láidir go dtacóidh an pharlaimint anseo leis na moltaí seo a chur i bhfeidhm ó 2011 seachas 2009 agus aontaím leis sin. maidir le cás na héireann, ba mhaith liom fáilte a chur roimh an socrú atá idir an post agus banc fortis na beilge. postbank atá ar an gcomhaontú seo agus cuirfidh sé seirbhís bainc ar fáil do chustaiméirí an idirlín agus trí oifigí poist ar fud na héireann níos déanaí i mbliana agus creidimse gur rud dearfach é seo mar tá an post á réiteach féin i gcomhair na hiomaíochta atá le teacht sna seirbhísí san eoraip agus tá súil agam as seo go dtacóidh sé seo leis na hoifigí poist faoin tuath in éirinn agus ar fud na heorpa a choinneáil ar oscailt. go raibh maith agat.
in writing. we abstained on today's report from mr stubb as we are concerned that the term, 'controlled full multilingualism', could be used to restrict the amount of written material available to irish speakers in comparison to speakers of other official and working languages. at present a range of services which could be made available in irish are not made available because the european parliament administration shows no wish to do so. such unnecessary limitations placed upon the irish language as a working language should be removed. some of the suggestions in mr stubb's report with regard to respect for multilingualism, quality control, user satisfaction, translation memory systems and a common database for terminology are positive.
in writing. sinn féin rejected the vidal-quadras report on the internal gas and electricity market because of its emphasis on privatisation and "unbundling". member states should retain the right to fully own and operate their energy systems if they see fit to do so. as an all-ireland party we look forward to the development of an all-ireland energy market which is fully integrated and managed in an accountable way. interconnections between north and south are important infrastructural elements in the creation of an all-ireland economy.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, first of all we need to remember that the posting of workers directive is about workers’ rights, and it just lays down minimum standards in terms of pay rates, holidays, working hours and so on. without the directive, workers are open to all sorts of abuses through post-box companies and bogus self-employment, a fact which some employers have not been slow to exploit. however, it seems to me that, in its emphasis, the commission gives primacy to removing obstacles to the provision of services and the orderly functioning of the internal market. i believe the resolution associated with this oral question represents a step back from existing parliament positions, most recently expressed in the schroedter report. the fact is that the commission has not enforced the directive, and many member states ignore its provisions. these failures should not be sidestepped in arguments about proportionality or protectionism. when parliament adopted the services directive, those of us who were concerned about its impact on workers’ rights were assured that the proper enforcement of the posting of workers directive would deal with our concerns. that has not happened, and the commission has failed to enforce this directive properly. this leaves many workers exposed, without the minimum standards necessary to avoid exploitation and abuse.
madam president, i am disappointed that commissioner špidla has told us today that he does not propose a new communication on this issue. if european workers are to move from member state to member state without triggering a race to the bottom, we must ensure that the law is clear, that there are standards applied commonly across the european union and that they are fully implemented. the posting of workers directive, as it stands, does not meet those criteria, nor do the guidelines which the commission published only a year ago. right now, we need the commission to insist on the retention of documents in the member states where a worker is posted and we need to insist on an identifiable employer who carries legal responsibility for compliance. even that will not be enough unless all member states put in place compliance mechanisms and severe penalties for breaches of the law. there is no possibility of progress on issues like flexicurity and reform of labour law unless we deal with issues such as workers’ security in this area. workers in europe will not stand for a diminution of their rights or a race to the bottom. we will not get any legislation through this house which weakens their rights in any way unless they can see that there are advantages for them in preventing a race to the bottom. i believe the short-sightedness of the council and the commission in this area is unbelievable, and it is simply inexplicable if they are serious about creating a european social union.
mr president, i thank the commissioner for his response. in the short time available to me, i will focus on three specific areas. first of all, with regard to youth unemployment, we see that there is a huge skills shortage, not just in the areas of the internet, communications or technology, but also in terms of the traditional skills used, for example, by carpenters, electricians, stonemasons and so on. there does not seem to be any new initiative to try and enforce extra training out of resources in there. secondly, with regard to the mobility question, there are barriers that are put in place that affect young people, in particular, in travelling to get jobs and have their qualifications recognised where they have them. thirdly, and finally, with regard to long-term unemployment, back-to-work schemes are important, allowing people to retain some of their social rights and thus helping them integrate back into the work system again. what proposals are there for that in particular?
mr president, the opening-up of air travel to millions of citizens has been brought about by the low-fares airlines. i agree with the commissioner that the single aviation market has been a singular success. airlines such as ireland’s ryanair have revolutionised the aviation sector and have put pressure on the older, more established and more expensive airlines to follow suit. such competition is good for the consumer and the traveller. however, i want to focus on what has already been mentioned by four people tonight, and that is that there is a problem. in such a competitive market, airlines have indulged – and still continue to indulge – in extremely attractive but grossly misleading price advertising. a travel fare advertised at five cents looks very attractive indeed, but when the consumer goes to book, either online or otherwise, the five-cent ticket can be several hundred euro when taxes and other charges are factored in. i raised this issue by way of a parliamentary question here last january, and the commission replied, ‘the commission, while maintaining the general rule of price freedom, proposes that “air carriers operating within the community [...] provide the general public with comprehensive information on their air fares and rates and the conditions attached”. consumers will thus be informed of the actual price (price of ticket plus the various charges and taxes).’ the degutis report, which we are debating here tonight, will give practical effect to this, and that is extremely welcome. the obligation on airlines to introduce full transparency is extremely welcome and very important, because the consumer will now see from the very outset exactly what he or she will have to pay. that alone will not reduce the numbers of people travelling – as a lot of people think it might – but in my opinion it will further enhance competition and benefit the travelling public. finally, could the commissioner tell us when exactly we can expect this to come into effect? the sooner the better, in my view.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, is í an aidhm is mó a bheidh ag an uachtaránacht seo a chinntiú go síneoidh ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh conradh nua an aontais eorpaigh níos déanaí sa bhliain. tháinig na ceannairí ar shocrú ginearálta polaitíochta ag an gcruinniú mullaigh deireanach ach tá obair mhór fós le déanamh sula mbeidh an conradh cinntithe go hiomlán. beidh an phortaingéil i mbun cruinnithe mullaigh go hidirnáisiúnta leis an mbrasaíl, le ceannairí na hafraice agus le rialtais mheiriceá, na síne agus na hindia. and in particular when we speak about africa we have all seen the difficulties and the concerns that have been raised by many colleagues with regard to the attendance of certain people at that conference. perhaps this could be an opportunity for us, instead of shouting 'no' from the sidelines, to encourage other african countries to cooperate with each other, to use the open method of coordination of what should be proper democratic controls and proper procedures for the rights of individuals and freedoms for individuals when we meet at this african summit. darfur is mentioned often but rarely given any real meat, and the african summit provides us with another opportunity to try to bring together the disparate parts and elements in the conflict to ensure we can find a clear way forward. concerning the reform treaty – as you rightly mention the mandate has been set for the igc in very specific terms – in many ways, despite what other people may think, we should expand or change those terms. we are best to deal with what we have before us and what has been agreed by the 27 governments. if i could sum up what the reform treaty should be about in one single phrase, the reform treaty is about giving us the freedom we seek, which is not the freedom to do whatever we wish, but rather, the freedom to achieve all that we desire. in particular, when we speak about that freedom, we must take into account our climate and in particular climate change. as i said in lisbon, i welcome the fact that the brazil summit gave us an opportunity to bring forward the whole idea of renewable energies and look at ways of creating new world trade organisation and partnership with the developing world and, most importantly of all, to guarantee that our citizens have the rights and freedom to succeed in europe.
in writing. i disagree with this amendment in that it insists on the need to hold referenda in all member states where that is possible. this is a direct interference with the principle of subsidiarity and it is within the competence of member states only to make the decision as to whether or not they should hold a referendum.
in writing. i fully support amendment 63 which ensures that sufficient access and contact points are established to take account of the needs of users of rural and sparsely populated areas. it is appropriate that member states should determine the minimum number of access and contact points so that the universal service can be guaranteed. economic and social cohesion is one of the objectives of eu policy and this amendment will help to ensure this particular objective. it is crucial that, when we open up the market in postal services, we maintain an adequate service for all users.
in writing. we voted against amendments 58 (article 14a (new)), 59 (article 15 (new)) and 61 (paragraph 2a (new)). we believe the social aspects of air transport employment deserve examination but that this should be carried out following the principles of ‘better regulation’, including proper research and appropriate consultation. the european commission has embarked on such a study. it is, therefore, appropriate to wait for the conclusions of said study to see what actions, if any, the commission says are required at community level.
in writing. i support the deletion of the word, 'taxation', from paragraph 22 as i do not believe the commission should undertake the preparation of an appropriate and feasible framework of regulation and supervision in terms of taxation.
in writing. i broadly support the commission's white paper on financial services. i support measures which seek to tackle obstacles to the development of the eu's financial services market. however, i find it difficult to support the notion that a legislative framework for pensions needs to be supported by a harmonised tax base. it would be unwise of the parliament to support such an assertion without the findings of the detailed technical analysis, as agreed at the last ecofin council. there is no evidence to suggest that linking pensions to a harmonised tax base would be good for the pensions sector. it is not within the competence of the commission to consider the feasibility of a legislative framework for taxation. taxation is a matter for individual member states. finally, the eu's financial stability is not under threat from alternative investment vehicles - hedge funds and private equity. i do not believe that legislation is needed in this sector. i do believe attention needs to be given to the enforcement of existing rules, market discipline and the continuous monitoring by banking regulators of this sector. i welcome the move by industry to introduce a voluntary code of conduct at the recent g8 meeting.
mr president, sustainable growth with more and better jobs is at the heart of the lisbon strategy. the modernisation of labour law constitutes a key element for the success and adaptability of workers and enterprises, and underlines the need to promote labour market flexibility while respecting job security. while i supported this report, i did so with the caveat that modernising labour law does not lend itself to a ‘one size fits all’ approach, and particular attention must be given to reviewing the impact of regulation on smes, including unnecessary administrative burdens. i also feel that the green paper places undue focus on ‘normal’ contracts of employment and underestimates both the variety of atypical working arrangements agreed between workers and employers and their consequent values to the parties concerned. the paper also fails to suggest how this flexibility has not already been provided by the fixed term directive, the part-time work directive and the posted workers directive, in which there is a base of eu protection provided across all member states who have fully transposed these directives. above all, any labour law reform must focus on the impact both on employment and productivity.
in writing. the posting of workers directive when properly implemented has provided a level of protection for posted workers, however, reports from the commission have indicated that in many cases there have been poor compliance with the directive and workers do not receive the protection of the directive to which they are entitled. this has lead to social dumping and a race to the bottom. in this context member states should be able to require a prior declaration by the service provider to enable it to verify compliance with the employment conditions.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am happy for this report to be debated jointly with the report on the eurozone. i would add that the report i am presenting was adopted unanimously by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. starting with the economic situation, in 2006 the economic recovery in the eurozone became a self-sustaining process with domestic demand acting as the main driver. two million jobs were created in 2006 and unemployment fell from 8.4% to 7.6%. in the context of this recovery, i would like to stress the main points of the report. against the background of the recent recovery, any further raising of interest rates should be undertaken with caution in order not to endanger economic growth. it is crucial that wages increase in line with productivity in order to preserve competitiveness in member states and to allow for job creation in a non-inflationary environment. fiscal consolidation is key and all the more necessary in good times in order to achieve long-term growth. the report observes that small economies have performed better than large economies since the creation of the eurozone in terms of growth, with notably ireland, finland, greece, luxembourg and spain achieving a higher average growth rate than the eurozone average and we say that lessons might be drawn from such developments. the report expresses concern about the ongoing appreciation of the euro against most major european currencies. article 111 of the treaty assigns responsibility for exchange rate policy to the council but without specifying how this responsibility should be exercised. the report calls on the eurogroup, the council and the ecb to exercise their respective powers and responsibilities in full coordination. the report also calls on the ecb to monitor closely developments in the use of the euro as a reserve currency for central banks and, in the context of its annual report on the international role of the euro, to quantify and analyse the effects of this, particularly as regards exchange rates. mr trichet will be aware that every time he has appeared at parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee during the last two years i have raised with him the issue of house prices. this remains a concern of mine. therefore, the report calls for the ecb to monitor closely these developments, which have the potential to have consequences for the real economy. the report contains a request that the ecb present ways forward with their respective advantages, such as including real estate in the harmonised index of consumer prices or devising a specific type of indicator or suggesting specific measures to be taken at national level due to heterogeneities among the national markets. i refer later on to the fed formula. perhaps it is time to develop an ecb formula to help forecast the likely effect of interest rate increases on house prices. my report also raises the issue of sub-prime lending and suggests that lessons can be learned in the eu from the potential difficulties for the us economy of sub-prime lending. i would like to take a moment to address an issue of particular concern to ireland but which has potential interest for other eurozone members. last year in ireland house prices were forecast to increase by 9% by estate agents hook and mcdonald, by between 8% and 10% by sherry fitzgerald and by 7% by friends first and iib, while allied irish banks forecast an increase of between 3% and 6%. the recent irish permanent tsb/esri index shows in fact that house prices fell by 2.1% between january and may 2007 and a further decline in ireland is expected. sub-prime lending – that is lending to poorer people, those with an irregular income stream or difficult history of meeting loans – is projected to grow to eur 4 billion in ireland this year. if the average loan was between eur 200 000 and eur 400 000, then between 10 000 and 20 000 such loans exist in ireland alone. sub-prime lenders are relatively new to the irish market and generally charge about twice the going mortgage rate to ‘compensate’ – as they put it – lenders for higher risk. in one case a mortgage company operating in ireland since 2005 has already repossessed 30 homes. there are also signs of concern in britain about sub-prime lending. it has been known for some time that there is a fed formula in the united states. the fed formula devised by the us federal reserve, according to one of its former economists, shows that typically, when house prices have been driven up for several years by low interest rates, when interest rates increase, prices begin to decline roughly 18 months to 2 years later. i believe that the ecb should follow this formula and develop an ecb formula because, at present, we are leaving it to people who are involved in the industry to make the forecasts, and they are the people – the financial institutions and others – who have most to gain. the report urges the commission to assess the quality of supervision and offshore location of hedge funds. it reiterates points made in the past about democratic scrutiny and the need to publish summary minutes. it draws attention to the fact that overdraft rates in the euro area vary from 7% to 13.5% and asks that the ecb evaluate this. it ends by saying that the number of banknotes in circulation stood at 11.3 billion with a value of eur 628.2 billion last year, but that it is concerned about the growth in the number of 50 euro, 100 euro and 500 euro banknotes. 500 euro banknotes alone have increased by 13.2%. my report, with the support of the economic and monetary affairs committee, raises the possibility of criminal activities in the use of these large banknotes and says that it requires further examination by the ecb. i hope mr trichet will be in a position to respond to this report and, in particular – not today, but perhaps over a certain period – to consider my suggestion about an ecb formula to equate with the fed formula so that there can be a true and accurate measure of the likely knock-on effect of interest rate increases on house prices in the member states of the eurozone.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, cuirim fáilte mór roimh an sceál gur scaoileadh an t-iriseoir, alan johnson, ón bbc saor ó gaza tar éis dó a bheith gafa le ceithre mhí anuas. tá áthas ó chroí orm go bhfuil sé saor agus go bhfuil sé sa bhaile anois lena mhuintir agus lena chairde. cuirim fáilte freisin roimh shocrú rialtas iosrael an deireadh seachtaine seo caite 250 príosúnach a scaoileadh saor. ach tá cúrsaí daonnachta in gaza dona go fóill. caithfear ord agus eagar a chur ar an soláthar bia atá ag dul isteach go muintir na palaistíne. níor cheart cead a thabhairt d'údaráis iosrael cosc a chur ar an mbia ag teorainn gaza agus iosrael. the biggest problem facing the people of gaza is a humanitarian one. the fact that hamas now controls gaza and fatah controls the west bank does not help the palestinian cause one iota. this means in essence that the palestinians can be accused of speaking in two different directions at the same time. in other words, israel can hide behind the fact that the palestinians are divided and that they are not now speaking with one voice. i also believe that the european union is in a very strong position to act as an honest broker on many political issues in the middle east. in fact, europe must engage politically to a greater extent so as to ensure that civil war is avoided.
on behalf of the uen group. – i should like to thank the commissioner and the president-in-office for their comments. martin luther king said: ‘peace requires not only the absence of violence but also the presence of justice’. if you think about the tragic history of the whole balkans region, one of the aspects that had been missing for so long was this idea of justice. there can be no peace without justice. in martti ahtisaari’s proposals we have an opportunity to take that big step, to take that jump, to find not just the peace but also the justice within it. in an ideal world it should have been left to the people themselves to solve the problem, but they could not find the capacity at the time to come together and find the solution, so one had to be proposed to them. this is our best opportunity to try to find a long-lasting and just peace settlement between the different traditions and the different peoples there. it is essential that, not only in presenting a new opportunity to kosovo, we also take into consideration the unique and special concerns that serbia has. it is important that we have a dialogue not only with kosovo but also with serbia, to give them the encouragement to move forward and to find a new path in the nation-building process. as well as that, from my own experience in ireland, over the last 10 years the one key element with regard to the solution of conflict and of discrimination and of hatred, is dialogue. get the sides talking, keep them talking. as slow and difficult as that is, it is the only way to find the just solution to this problem.
the response was brief, but the question is a very serious one and it will not go away. what is being looked at here is the imbalance in standards between brazil and europe; what we demand of our producers and what our consumers expect, and what is delivered in terms of beef brought into the eu from brazil. i note in your priorities, president-in-office, that you have a special relationship with brazil and are looking at a specific political dialogue with that country. i stress that we are looking at a ban on such imports and i think that, in terms of consumer safety and protection, that is the very least we should be looking at. on the issue of the trade deal, i would ask that you address that particular question and the likelihood of same.
acting president of the council. mr president, what we have in the works is exactly what i said, which is the result of the european council last march. it is now, of course, up to the council, on the basis of proposals from the european union, to give practical, real effect to what were mainly strategic decisions, political decisions, guiding decisions. the honourable member is in no doubt that energy issues, because of the very timeliness and importance of the subject, will have an absolutely obvious and extraordinarily significant relevance and importance in this presidency, as well as in other future presidencies, in the internal agenda as well as in the external agenda of the union. it is a matter, i repeat, that the european institutions will of course have to deal with in a thorough and comprehensive manner over the next few years.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would like to say that it is not for the council, or for the member of the council holding the presidency, to comment on the mandate of the intergovernmental conference which has resulted from the negotiations of the european council in june, in particular on the question of the charter. however, i can refer to the mandate of the intergovernmental conference, agreed by all the member states. annex i to mandate no 5 is reproduced in the protocol, footnote 19. the effects of the protocol are defined in that protocol.
first of all, i want to thank the portuguese presidency for its brief answer and i want to wish it well in its term. i look forward to a good working relationship. but i suppose, while you say that the council cannot answer this question, at the same time, as regards the uk and poland and indeed ireland, the uk had some reason to look for a derogation, and poland and ireland reserved their right to do the same. either the charter of fundamental rights has some substance and meaning or it has not. either it is window-dressing or it has real clout. i am very concerned as an irish mep that the rights of citizens in my country may be less than the rights of citizens in other eu states if my country does not sign up to that charter.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i very much appreciate the comments and the content of the commissioner’s response here this evening. i have to say it is nothing less than that i would expect from her. i found during the whole dci process, often when we got bogged down, that the commissioner certainly was of great assistance in trying to move that situation on, as was her colleague, commissioner michel. i am glad also to hear what she had to say about the annual action programmes because we really do need to deliver on the letter that commissioner ferrero waldner and commissioner michel sent to mrs morgantini and myself as rapporteur on the dci, because in that letter it was clear that parliament would decide for itself what structures it would set up and the programmes and strategy papers it would examine. i have to say also that given that the dci was only approved last december and it is very much a new process for all of us, parliament has hit the boards running. where it has been hit and miss, i have heard some very bad reports of the attitude of some people in the commission in relation to annual action programmes. in my own experience as chairman of group c, examining some of the latin american countries, i have to say that the cooperation has been very good. and i think the commissioner should encourage the continuation of good cooperation because it creates a good atmosphere all round and creates a very good working relationship. it allows us all to bring our best experience to addressing the issues which we all want to address, being the millennium development goals and the needs of very poor people in a suffering part of the world. i want to underscore the importance of the present period. a lot of work has been done by the commission and by parliament to enable the eu to better implement its development policies. throughout the negotiations on the development cooperation instrument, we made it clear that we did not want to be involved in micro-management. micro-management is for the commission and council but we do want to have oversight. it is right for parliament to have oversight and the commission should not fear any involvement of parliament in that vein. we, the commission and the council should be partners in seeking to be effective, and not competitive and seeking to keep things secretively to ourselves. how can we cooperate to effectively deliver assistance to the countries we are trying to assist? the first steps of the new dci framework are being taken and we all have responsibilities to get it right. dci has formalised structures, recognising the important function that parliament should play in its role as overseer and adviser. we have worked hard scrutinising the strategy papers prepared by the commission and to formulate positions on different aspects of those strategies. i expect the commission to give careful consideration to effect our positions on the strategy papers. as part of our oversight role, we must insist that policy continuously focus on the achievement of the mdgs, which aim to alleviate some of the worst forms of poverty in the world. parliament continually needs to receive assurances to its satisfaction. i was very impressed at the beginning of the year to hear from the german presidency that they would forward the acp papers to parliament in the same way as they had forwarded the papers for the asian and latin american countries. now i understand that one member state – although perhaps i am being unfair in this – raised some objection to that. i know there is a multiplicity of these papers and it sounds very good that this should be addressed in some way by the jpa or the acp member states. but, unlike parliament, the joint parliamentary assembly and the african, caribbean and pacific house of that assembly are not constantly in session, and the structures are not there to cope with that level of scrutiny. we have three standing committees and perhaps we could on some selective audit basis pick some aspects of these and examine them. but that should not in any way interfere with the need of parliament here to take what documents this parliament wishes and to scrutinise them in the best way possible. our objective should always be to achieve the millennium development goals. we are not in competition. we can work together. for two years, during the development cooperation instrument process, we tried to persuade the commission and others that we were really in the business of trying to find a really good instrument. eventually, when we were listened to, we found that instrument. commissioner, do not listen to bad advice. do not listen to people who are creating obstacles. we are in the same team. we want to achieve the millennium development goals. do not keep from parliament information that it should rightly have in its oversight role. you will find that we will respond generously and effectively and helpfully. thank you very much for your contribution here this evening.
madam president, the report on sustainable mobility for our continent, which we have just voted on, not only stresses the need to build up a better infrastructure, but implies that this must be done responsibly and respectfully. it points out that member states must keep an eye on the environmental impact of improved infrastructure as well as examining transport, while taking into account socio-economic factors vis-à-vis safety. this is particularly relevant to my own country, ireland, where we are currently badly in need of making the preservation of natural, historic landmarks a priority. the irish authorities are in the process of destroying one of the most important archaeological sites in europe in a bid to improve transport systems in ireland. forty-one sites which comprise european heritage, including the national monument at lismullen, will be demolished due to a motorway that is unnecessarily routed through it. once these monuments are destroyed, there is no way to replace the cultural heritage that will be lost with them. according to the sustainable mobility report, future transport policy will have to optimise each country’s own potential to meet the objectives of clean and efficient transport systems. ireland can achieve this, but a motorway through tara is not the answer. the irish authorities have not considered alternative routes and, instead, by road construction are destroying significant historical locations like the site at baronstown which was destroyed six days ago at 4 a.m. in the morning. nor have they considered reviving an old rail line in the area to carry commuters to dublin, thus reducing road traffic and fuel consumption. we should return to the old methods of transport like the train that used to be operated near tara. while i agree with this sustainable europe and better transport infrastructure, i firmly believe that we cannot and should not sacrifice one of our most precious archaeological sites for a misplaced motorway.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – mr president, commissioner, almost hidden amongst the constant news of violence in iraq is the almost unheard voice of iraq’s christian minority. this small population has no protection and is almost unknown to the international community. they are experiencing intense waves of violent persecution. christian iraqis are faced with the choice of exile – if they can manage to escape – conversion or persecution. the persecution takes many forms: violence, discrimination in the workplace, confiscation of property, etc. for a chaldean christian priest, ragheed aziz ganni, this persecution resulted in death. what will the european community do to help the chaldean, assyrian and orthodox christian communities? the iraqi government states its commitment to ending violence, but the lack of security makes it impossible to enforce peace on the ground and impossible to protect vulnerable populations. they need our help.
mr president, on a point of order, before you put the motion for a resolution to the vote, in the interests of fairness i think the alde group should recognise that but for the ppe-de group’s presence here this afternoon, its amendments would not have been passed. i think there should be consistency in our criticism about presence in this chamber.
mr president, this week the freedom drivers return to parliament. the freedom drivers are people with disabilities and high dependency needs, who want to enjoy the same freedom of movement that everyone else enjoys and that europe represents. they come to ask for the kind of legislation that will allow them this freedom of movement. they will explain the obstacles they face. many of these obstacles are of our making and removing them should be a challenge for this parliament, for the nations and the people we represent. my challenge to you, commissioner, is that this is their third year visiting and little has changed. yes, we have improved air passenger rights, but we have little else to say to them. when can we expect the long-awaited disability directive that will put real legislative weight behind equality for people with disabilities?
mr president, there is no doubt that the eures programme is very important and is working well, but it needs to be improved. i want to deal with a specific issue relating to mobility, which we all agree is necessary and is good for europe. the problem i refer to specifically is that of eu citizens who come to ireland and have a spouse who is not originally from an eu country. in the last number of weeks, the irish government has issued deportation orders for 120 such spouses. i know that many more have been informed by the irish authorities that their application for residency has been suspended pending the outcome of a court case, which is not likely to happen until 2009. this is clearly an obstacle to mobility in europe for those european union citizens who want to move to ireland to take up the work that is available there, and who find they are restricted because they are married to non-eu citizens. it seems to me that this is unfair to those who might want to move, but it is doubly unfair to those who have already moved and are living – in some cases for a long time – in ireland with their spouses and who are now being deported. i would urge the commissioner to make contact as a matter of urgency with the irish minister and urge him to withdraw the deportation orders and to allocate interim residency to the families concerned and to end the uncertainty that they currently face with regard to their future. if we are serious about mobility in europe, then these kinds of issues should not arise. i am convinced that the current irish law that is operating in this regard is in breach of the european union directive of 2004 on mobility and on residency and also in breach of european union anti-discrimination laws, because this is being applied only to the spouses of non-irish eu citizens. these are two serious issues, and i would urge the commissioner to make immediate and urgent representations to the irish authorities, specifically minister brian lenihan, to have this matter resolved without delay.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the first 10 years of the internal market added eur 877 billion to the eu economy and it helped to create over 2.5 million jobs, so i do not think anybody could argue against the idea that the internal market has definitely worked. for the next 10 years i believe that ensuring global competition will be vital for europe. i cannot, therefore, support the view that a common consolidated corporate tax regime will not hamper eu competitiveness and that is, unfortunately, one of the reasons why, as the rapporteur on the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i had my name removed from this report. i believe that the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb), which is harmonisation of tax by a different name and through the back door, will undermine competition, inward investment, growth and employment in europe. we need competition in tax, not harmonisation. if we are to make sure that europe continues to grow and in the future is a dynamic economy globally, then i believe we need competition in this area. therefore, i call on the commission to produce as soon as possible the impact assessment of the ccctb on the internal market. i believe that europe needs to strengthen its efforts in the field of international dialogues on financial markets not just with the us, japan and china but also with other emerging economies, like india. in fact, in comparison with other countries, europe is at a standstill in respect of development and investment in r&d. i believe that the member states need to encourage greater cooperation between technology-intensive goods and services in order to create markets for knowledge. finally, i should like to say once again that what we need in tax is competition, not harmonisation, if europe is to be a dynamic economy in the future.
in writing. – i broadly welcome the rapporteur’s report and agree that the development of the single market has delivered a range of benefits for europe’s citizens, notably by providing consumers with a wider choice and lower prices, creating a dynamic business environment and enabling the free exchange of goods, services and ideas. this in turn has facilitated european integration across a range of areas and continues to underpin the eu’s ability to achieve its broad objectives. however, i have reservations about particular elements of this report: i do not agree that the introduction of a common consolidated tax base is either necessary or desirable, as suggested in this report. i believe that such a proposal, were it to be tabled by the commission, would be a first step towards tax harmonisation, which i would find unacceptable. i believe that member states are best placed to determine the nature and scope of their respective tax systems. finally, i believe that the report’s reference to nuclear power as an essential part of the eu’s energy mix is misplaced and i will not be supporting this element of the report.
mr president, commissioner, you have yourself recognised the very important political symbolism of the gdańsk shipyards and all that they evoke. but, of course, the shipyards are more than simply that symbolism. they are the cornerstone of a whole regional economy, directly and indirectly providing thousands of jobs. the closure or the running-down of the gdańsk shipyard could devastate the whole regional economy, destroying the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. commissioner, you have spoken about the importance of competition, the importance of the free market. i would like to hear you speak about the importance of those jobs. i would like to see you recognise the strategic importance of this shipyard for poland – and, indeed, of this industry for the european union as a whole. i think this controversy lays bare, once again, rules on state aid and exactly where eu policy is directed. i think it would be ironic and almost tragic if the demise of gdańsk and all that it symbolises was due to the heavy hand of eu policy, which is wedded to the dynamic of competition, the market economy – to the exclusion of all else, it seems to me.
mr president, paragraph 16 of the toubon report regrets that insufficient emphasis was placed on the potential contribution of nuclear power. my vote against this phrase is on the assumption that it was referring to nuclear fission, with which i and many others have a problem in terms of the disposal of radioactive waste and the legacy of decommissioning. any emphasis on the potential contribution from nuclear fusion, however, while still some way in the future, would deserve support. paragraph 32 refers to harmonisation in the area of taxation, amongst others, and also urges the commission to push ahead with its proposals concerning a common consolidated corporate tax base. the irish delegation of the ppe-de group is firmly opposed to any harmonisation of direct taxation, including corporate taxation, and we will continue to reject any proposals which weaken that position. so, despite many excellent points in the toubon report, my colleagues and i had to abstain.
in writing. the first 10 years of the internal market added eur 877 billion to the eu economy. it helped to create 2.5 million jobs. these facts speak for themselves that the single market is working. as a trading nation, ireland can only benefit from a fully functioning single market. ensuring competitiveness is a vital element in the policy mix of a fully functioning single market. i do not accept that the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) will not hamper eu competitiveness as proposed in the toubon report. the ccctb is the backdoor to tax harmonisation. it is vital that member sates have the flexibility to use taxation in different ways and at different rates to achieve their social and economic objectives tax harmonisation would prevent this. the toubon report contains many favourable points with regard to the knowledge society for a sustainable eu, for an eu open to the world and for a well-regulated eu. however, i abstained on the final vote because i firmly believe that the eu is best served by promoting tax competition, not tax harmonisation.
in writing. i voted against this report because amendments favouring tax harmonisation were passed and included in the report. i am resolutely opposed to any measure favouring harmonisation of taxes across the eu. there is a constant attempt to slip these measures in as amendments, and even in the body of reports, and i will oppose them at every opportunity. the commission should be more forthright about its intentions on this subject coming up to the referendum on the reform treaty.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i welcome the contents of this report today, which supports the broader development of trans-european road networks in europe. the second largest road development in ireland at present is the construction of a 112 km road called the m3, which will by-pass the towns of dunshaughlin, navan and kells in county meath. there has been a lot of press coverage recently in ireland about the role of the commission in the context of the m3. some people who oppose this development have totally misrepresented the role of the commission in this matter. i want to set the record straight as to the exact role of the commission concerning the m3. on 29 june 2007 the commission sent a letter by reasoned opinion to the irish government, seeking an explanation as to why the irish government did not carry out a second impact assessment when there was an archaeological discovery at lismullen last march. the irish government will defend its position because it acted only after independent reports from the director of the national museum of ireland were given to the irish government. this report recommended that this find at lismullen be excavated and preserved by record. this proposed plan of action was supported by the chief state archaeologist in ireland. however, the commission sending a letter by reasoned opinion to the irish government does not mean, as has been reported, that ireland is going to be fined hundreds of millions of euros by the european union or that the building of this road, which has commenced, has to stop, or that legal action will be taken against ireland. i know that this is an emotive issue, but the role of the european union in this issue has to be put into perspective.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, ba mhaith liom a rá nach gceapaimse go bhfuil polasaí seo an liobrálachais i gcúrsaí eitleoireachta ag cabhrú ar chor ar bith le roinnt réigiún agus aerfort sna réigiúin sin. mar shampla, féach cad atá tarlaithe in aerfort na sionainne i mo thoghcheantar féin in iarthar na héireann. tá cinneadh aer lingus na heitiltí go londain a tharraingt amach tar éis drochbhail a chur ar an réigiún sin go heacnamaíoch. tá sé go hiomlán i gcoinne pholasaí rialtas na héireann. mar sin, ceapaimse go bhfuil an tsaoirse seo ó thaobh eitleoireachta sna ceantair eorpacha ag déanamh dul chun cinn do na ceantair atá láidir agus ag lagú na gceantar nach bhfuil chomh láidir sin. bheinn ag iarraidh ar an gcoimisiún, mar sin, féachaint ar chás aerfort na sionainne mar shampla agus breathnú conas mar atá an polasaí seo ag dul chun cinn ó thaobh polasaí forbartha réigiúnaí sna ceantair ina bhfuil a leithéid amhlaidh.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i am disturbed by the suggestion that the process of establishing open skies be accelerated. there seems to be no recognition of the problems that open skies have visited on regional airports in europe, even in their preparatory stage. in creating a single european sky we will see the emergence of two major hubs – heathrow, definitely, and either frankfurt or charles de gaulle – flanked by a network of sub-hubs. the competition among airports to be the first or second level in the open skies hierarchy is proving cut-throat in my country. shannon airport – a hub in its own right – and regional airports like cork are being starved of routes, while dublin airport is chronically overcrowded. my government stands by and does nothing because the logic of open skies is to let the market decide, and the market, not social responsibility or common sense around regional and rural development, is deciding in a way that increases profits but does not serve people. rather than rush open skies, let us, even at this late hour, take whatever time is necessary to do serious assessment on the impact of the policy. then let us take whatever measures are needed to ensure that whole areas of europe, like the west and south of ireland, are not cut off from a viable, economic future by open skies.
madam president, i will be brief. while you are chastising the commissioner, may i say thank you because very often we do not get information and i really appreciate your clarity. i will need to study the detail. i have two comments and a question and i will watch the time. should a country decide voluntarily to be gm-free? this is being proposed in ireland; it is part of the programme for government and is being looked into. could we as a country decide we do not want to bring in food produced from, for example, meat of animals which have eaten gm products, or to bring any particular food into our country because we want to keep ourselves gm-free? are you concerned about the impact on grain prices of such a policy?
i thank the commissioner for her response and for her facilitation of a further question. it concerns the question of what the new reform treaty presents to us with regard to the multiannual funding aspect and the functioning of the budget. as you know, every year we have the usual arguments with regard to certain own resources that are being made available as well as what other funds we have made available and how those monies have been distributed to the different headings, whether it is agriculture, social structure, structural funding, regional funding and so on. one of the biggest complaints we always get here in parliament is that people do not know where european money is being spent. they do not know where exactly the funding they are giving, as they see it, is being distributed amongst the different countries. i know member states have a responsibility themselves to say that, but is there some mechanism whereby the commission could be more forthcoming with regard to highlighting the areas of expenditure?
member of the commission. this could be a long answer but, in short, we try to cooperate, pool resources and policies in order to promote better conditions for young people. tomorrow, for example, the commission is going to adopt a written procedure – a policy paper on youth employment. we believe that youth is our future and the future starts now. we encourage especially the new member states to use more structural funds for the support of educational policies for mobility. of course, in saying that member states’ basic responsibility is the system and the content, we believe that quality or efficiency and equity followed by member states could deliver more concrete and better answers for our citizens, including the young. i am sure the investment in human resources, especially via education and training, is the most valuable and efficient investment in society’s cohesion and future competitiveness. i say that not only as the commissioner responsible for these areas, but also as a politician and a father. so we do not doubt that we need to do more together.
you referred to the structural funds several times. what can you, as commissioner, do to encourage countries to use those funds for their people, for social programmes etc.? certainly, in ireland, i know that the bulk of those funds were used for roads and for big infrastructure projects. virtually nothing was spent on people.
member of the commission. it is clear that the european commission is the guardian of the european treaties and laws, and in this respect we are of course prepared to take all the necessary steps. in the first presidential decree case, the commission identified many problems, including those addressed in the adeneler case. in 2004, the commission contacted the greek authorities about them. so, in principle, i can say that we are paying attention to this issue. we are studying very carefully the latest decision of the greek supreme court and if there is room for action to be taken at commission level, we will not hesitate to implement it. of course, a number of questions arise concerning the abuse of fixed-term contracts concluded before the date of the decree, including those in force on 10 july 2002, the date set for implementation, in so far as these contracts are not covered by the interim provisions. so basically, i want to say that we're giving this issue due attention and we're not taking the steps that the principle of protection of contracts requires.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ten years after the inclusion of article 13 of the treaty on european union, significant progress has been made in ensuring that citizens throughout the european union are protected against discrimination based, inter alia, on race, ethnic origin or sexual orientation. however, this protection is not yet complete, nor has there yet been the genuine equality referred to by the honourable member. the so-called 'racial equality directive' and 'equal treatment in employment directive' apply to all member states and it is the task of the european commission to monitor the correct transposition of both directives into national law and their effective application. on 27 june 2007, the commission therefore sent reasoned opinions to 14 member states which had not correctly implemented directive 2000/43/ec. i would point out that the reasons for these opinions are of course different in the various member states and of varying severity. nevertheless, 14 states received these reasoned opinions. the european year of equal opportunities for all 2007 provided incentives for public authorities and civil society to organise events and campaigns highlighting the benefits of diversity and non-discrimination. it is important that the fight against discrimination remains at the centre of attention and in 2008 the commission will present proposals for follow-up actions to the european year, which may include measures to complete the anti-discrimination legal framework. as part of the preparation for the impact assessment, an online consultation was launched in july and will run until mid-october. i would also like to say that the commission rejects all forms of homophobia and supports a society based on tolerance and respect. it welcomed the european parliament's resolution of 26 april 2007 on homophobia in europe. in this context, the commission regrets that the local authorities did not grant the necessary permits for the truck promoting diversity in europe to visit vilnius on 25 may as planned and forbid the accompanying parade of homosexuals. the commission also regrets that the participants in the diversity march at the romanian gayfest 2007 on 11 june (which received moral support and used the logo of the european year) were intimidated by extremist groups and had to be protected by the police. the 'racial equality directive' mentioned above prevents discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin. i would like to stress that this also applies to the roma in full. the commission is also convinced that the correct application of eu legislation must be complemented by information campaigns to provide roma with information about their rights and by actions to inform the general public about the rights and obligations arising from the non-discrimination law. roma-focused events are taking place in bulgaria, the czech republic, greece, spain, france, ireland, italy, lithuania, poland, romania, finland and slovakia during the 2007 european year of equal opportunities for all. actions to combat discrimination against roma are also funded by the european social fund and the progress 2007-2013 programme for employment and social solidarity supports capacity building in roma civil society.
member of the commission. i think that the honourable member's speech did not contain any question, but i would like to confirm the view she expressed. both non-discrimination directives are key european legislation. care must be taken to ensure that they are fully implemented, that non-discrimination, equal opportunities and tolerance are fundamental and actively applied. this is also why the european commission has opened infringement proceedings against 14 countries. but i would also like to point out that the individual member states generally accept these high standards and that most of the problems we have discussed, which are the reason for initiating infringement proceedings, are of a legislative, technical and organisational nature. they do not constitute a tendency for a member state to reject those directives.
i too would be happy if the commissioner would answer all the questions together, if that were possible. but, if not, perhaps you might allow him to read the answers to all five, if he has separate answers, and we will take all of the supplementaries at the end of the five replies.
member of the commission. i think that european legislation is at this moment, madam president, madam member, a very high standard compared to the rest of the world. it is also of particular importance that the international convention on the rights of persons with disabilities has been adopted within the framework of the united nations. it is also clear that deinstitutionalization is part of all european strategies in this area, including those financed through our financial instruments. however, it is also clear that this transition is possible. there are countries that have completely abolished institutional care for the disabled - these are rare, but they exist - and they show that this goal can be achieved. on the other hand, it is a goal that must be achieved in stages and in a very organic way, because, as i have said, deinstitutionalization without adequate provision can, on the contrary, mean a worsening of the position of the disabled, as can be seen again from the experience of many countries in the world. i am thinking specifically of cases of deinstitutionalization in relation to the mentally disabled in the united states, where this pathway without adequate accommodation has proved to be highly controversial.
madam president, it is true that progress has been made but it has to be said that progress is painfully slow. indeed, a lot of the progress would not have been made without the campaigning that has been undertaken by people with disabilities themselves. what i want to ask you specifically, commissioner, with regard to the study you mentioned on integration into society: does this study deal with the issue of independent living? of course, it is extremely important that quality community services are put in place in order to ensure that people can be taken out of institutions. however, these community care services need to be directed towards enabling people with disabilities to lead independent lives, which is a crucial demand for people with disabilities. linked to that, as a european union, we need to look at how, for instance, the right to personal assistance could be made available to people wherever they move to within the european union. could i ask if that aspect of independent living is being addressed by the study and, if not, would you undertake that a study of the availability of personal assistance and the generalisation of such a scheme across the european union could be addressed, and indeed the portability of it?
member of the commission. mr president, i think you have touched on very serious issues which are generally connected with the issue of disability. first of all, i would like to say that, unfortunately, we do not yet have comparable data at this stage which could provide a good basis for sound european strategies. it is one of the commission's objectives to obtain such comparable and interpretable data. it is also important to remember that the discussion you have opened, or the question you have opened, is very closely related to the debate on services, social services in the general interest. so again, this is a topic that we're dealing with in this area. and i would also like to emphasize that within the framework of the mobility of workers or people within the european union, the directive on air transport has been implemented and, of course, it is being considered to extend these rules to other types of transport, as is logical in principle. similarly, the question of the portability and accessibility of social services or, respectively, of various social benefits related to the disabled is addressed in the context of the development and evolution of regulation 1408 on the coordination of social services. the same applies, of course, to the directives on the portability of pensions in supplementary schemes. all these instruments are aimed at substantially enhancing the value and possibilities of autonomous living with an adequate level of safety anywhere in the european union.
i can be brief because many of my questions have been asked. some eu member states will be proactive in acknowledging the rights of their citizens with disabilities. some, unfortunately, resist improvement of standards and even create or tolerate obstacles. we have strategies and action plans, which are well and good, but only an enforceable disability directive has a chance of bringing errant states – like the one i live in – into line. when can we expect this directive, commissioner? could you confirm that you will be giving written answers to the five questions?
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur on this important report. i wish to draw attention to the role that alcohol plays in the incidence of suicide, with studies showing that over 20% of persons committing suicide used alcohol prior to death. indeed, when the legal age for drinking alcohol was raised from 18 to 21 in the us, the most notable impact was on the reduction of accidents in the home, at work and on the roads, but there was also a 7% reduction in suicides. there are many excellent suggestions in this report that i support. however, i have one slight reservation concerning the part of recital k which states: ‘whereas measures should also be taken to prevent the consumption of alcohol by minors and pregnant women’. i know there are major issues with regard to foetal alcohol syndrome, and i am in favour of information labels, warning labels, curbs on advertising and pre- and post-natal support, but the suggestion that we should prevent pregnant women from taking a drink is a step too far. we are not in the business of prohibition – that does not work – but we need what is proposed in this report, and much more.
mr president, in the us there has been warning of the effect of alcohol on babies in utero for 20 years because they had a problem with alcohol-related harm. only 20% of american mothers-to-be drink in pregnancy. in europe, we do not label. eighty per cent of irish mothers drink. seventy per cent of mothers in the uk drink. i know mothers in ireland. i know that many of them would not drink if they understood the harm. labelling may not be an instant solution, but, over time, it is proved by the us experience that it has an effect and brings down foetal harm. for adults, moderation is the key word, but for the child before birth there is no safe level. even low consumption can create organic brain damage that results in hyperactivity, impulsivity and even an increased risk of suicide. there are learning and coordination difficulties as well. one of the results of foetal alcohol exposure is a tendency for the child to grow up and to binge drink when he or she gets older. that shows it becomes self perpetuating. it is time to break this cycle.
mr president, overall i welcome this report. i think it finds the right balance between recognising established cultural habits and the very worrying trend of harmful consumption of alcohol, particularly the growth in the hazardous binge-drinking culture among our young people. the commission in its approach identified key targets – protecting our children, combating binge-drinking, reducing injuries and deaths from alcohol rage, road accidents and the whole area of suicide. my colleagues have pointed out the areas of concern extremely well. i would now like to emphasise myself the need to add the serious risks of pre-natal alcohol exposure as a key target in the commission’s list to be worked on, and for the health and alcohol forum proposed by the commission particularly to take up this issue. this is because the area of the pre-natal damage done by the consumption of alcohol is one very poorly understood by the public at large. no amount of alcohol is safe during pregnancy, because alcohol is a teratogen. in fact it is more dangerous during the second and third trimesters, which is what most pregnant women do not understand, because it is usually the first trimester that is the area of concern in terms of taking medication or drugs or any such substances. alcohol is particularly dangerous in the second and third trimesters. without shaming and blaming, we need to get an educational information campaign out through the member states, through the gps, to alert pregnant women immediately to the dangers of alcohol in this area. colleagues have mentioned adhd. there is also asperger’s syndrome. the medical research community has had difficulty in getting published in this area, owing to the politics of alcohol. let your forum take over this issue and go further with it. a final word on alcohol abuse as part of polydrug abuse. in ireland a fifth of those treated for problem alcohol use also misuse drugs, and a recent study in france found that driving under the influence of cannabis doubles the risk of being responsible for an accident. the increasing prevalence of polydrug use needs to be addressed urgently by your forum too, and by each member state, and the necessary technical supports to detect polydrug use, particularly at roadside police checks, need to be enhanced, with technical support being given to our police authorities.
president, i too should like to congratulate mrs jeggle on her expertise in handling these reports. it makes sense to simplify but not to radically change at this stage. i suppose it is a funny old world, because not that long ago, it was doom and gloom in the dairy sector and it is incredible how buoyant and resilient farmers are that this summer, for the first time in a long time, i saw smiles on their faces because milk prices are recovering. consumers are noticing – and tesco is actually saying – that the long-term trend of declining spend on food has stopped. sir terry leahy, tesco’s chief executive, recently said that there is a fundamental shift in the priority consumers place on food and i think that is true, and it is welcome, and i hope it signifies a move away from the ‘slash and burn’ policy of supermarkets in relation to food. obviously we are trying to be specific in relation to milk. all of us want to know what your plans are on milk quotas, given the market situation we now face. and we look forward to hearing that. i read too that china is anxious for its children to be able to have access to milk and it is extraordinary that with that in mind, our children in europe are apparently drinking less and less of it. however, in relation to the school milk scheme, which is vital, can i just give you the views of áine – who happens to be one of my own and who is aged ten. she has just opted out of the school milk scheme and i think it is interesting why she has done that – she actually loves milk – but she would rather be outside playing with her friends than sitting drinking milk, which she is forced to do within the school. so there are lots of reasons why this scheme might need to be looked at and we need to work with the schools, because average milk consumption in ireland is low and we are worried about it in terms of the fight against obesity. as i say, i look forward to the future and the health check. my own health at the moment is a little bit dodgy and i think that a hot cup of milk for those of us who wait until this long hour would have been most welcome!
madam president, i strongly support the demand for effective, efficient, balanced and accountable security at the european and international level in addressing terrorism. if we are to avoid feeding the threat, democratic accountability is essential to ensure balance and proportionality. but a security response, no matter how effective, is not sufficient. we must address the international, political and economic injustices which certain demagogues are using to tap into a youthful hunger for justice. their appeal is based on a tabloid history, a tabloid politics, which denies the nuances and contradictions which are integral to all of our political and religious traditions. the battle for hearts and minds requires us to avoid demonising whole communities of religious believers. it requires open dialogue, not confrontation; it requires us to address the real and perceived disconnection that some young people are experiencing. europe’s idea of ‘unity through diversity’ could help, but that requires courageous political leadership, which, unfortunately, is sadly lacking at council level. finally, could i appeal at least to the people, the representatives in this house, to avoid sloppy language, which implies sloppy thinking. equating fundamentalism automatically with terrorism is sloppy thinking. there are millions upon millions of catholics, protestants, jews and muslims who believe literally in the old testament, in the new testament and the koran, but they are not terrorists. there are a tiny number of people who have a literal reading of their religion who are involved in terrorism. we have to address why that is the case.
in writing. the current strength in the milk sector is creating great optimism amongst dairy farmers in europe. growing appetites for dairy in asia, shrinking european production and increased use of land production in the us for biofuels is driving the price of dairy to a record high. as an mep representing rural ireland, i am happy that dairy farmers are getting a deserved break, although production costs continue to rise making it harder for smaller dairy farmers in particular to survive. a change in market management mechanisms brings instability. with the milk quotas scheduled for removal by 2015, provisions need to be made to absorb volatility in the market. the reaction of the producers is unknown. an increase in output of milk will lead to a drop in prices. safeguard mechanisms allowable under the wto will be crucial for stability. at present, export refunds are zero rated due to the strength in global dairy markets. we should ensure that they are retained as mechanisms that could potentially be introduced at a later date. change is inevitable in the dairy sector, but there needs to be a well managed transition to provide the farmers of europe with a stable and bright future.
in writing. after tobacco and high blood pressure, alcohol abuse is the third most important cause of ill-health and early death in the eu, costing millions to our heath service. related road accidents continue to claim lives while related public order offences and underage drinking are on the rise across all of europe. the greatest tool of efficiency in decreasing alcohol-related harm is real awareness combined with enforcement. effective education in the home and in school from primary school up is paramount. women and men should be better informed about the risks of alcohol during pregnancy and about fasd in particular and i support the original language of the report emphasising the appropriate warning on the package of alcoholic beverages which may prevent women from drinking alcohol before and during pregnancy. i call on the irish government to examine mandatory labelling on alcoholic beverages targeting this syndrome. i am very much in favour of asking the commission to take steps to facilitate an independent study of the performance of innovative communication means, including labelling, as a way of reducing hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption.
in writing. i voted in favour of the above-mentioned report and welcome the inclusion of an amendment to paragraph 16, which i voted in favour of, highlighting the harmful effects of consuming alcohol during pregnancy. currently, member states may use labelling to inform consumers about the potential negative effects of consuming alcohol, and this is something that the irish government should certainly consider. however, meaningful progress in terms of labelling can only be achieved through a degree of eu harmonisation in this area. i look forward to the publication of the commission's study on the performance of innovative means of communication to reduce hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption before 1 january 2010, as called for in the above-mentioned report.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i should like to ask the commissioners for their response. the events that took place in august in the sub-prime market highlighted a number of issues for all of us. first of all, the globalised nature of the financial markets which we are now dealing with, and the issue of how quickly regulation or supervision can keep pace with the way new products are being developed and new ideas are being developed. but it also brings to mind something an old farmer in west cork in the south-west of ireland once said to me: there is no such thing as an oil that can make your hair grow – apologies to those folically challenged within the chamber; there is no such thing as a pair of glasses that can let you see through clothes and, also, there is a fool born every day. the reality is that the products made available were high risk, and no matter what anybody says, the idea of caveat emptor is one that should have been at the very core of any decisions with regard to banks or other funds that we were going to invest in these high-risk products. it brings starkly into contrast the role of the credit-ratings agencies and their responsibility, not only with regard to the advice they give, but, in particular, regarding their informing us in a transparent manner as to whether they are representing these funds themselves or whether they are actually giving clear, independent advice. colleagues will remember that, a number of years ago, we discussed a directive on consumer credit, and the whole area of transparency and of having independent advice available to the consumers was one key element. now, it is laughable that some of the biggest financial institutions in the world – and some in europe – who are the people who spend so much money on buying-in expertise and telling us in europe how we should run our economies, can be the ones who are now caught because of their bad investment policy. i congratulate commissioner mccreevy on his willingness to take on this issue and to tackle some of these areas. i also think it is essential now, not only in looking at credit-rating agencies, but also with regard to the risk that european banks are being exposed to because of the policies of some of those investments, and next week ... (the president cut off the speaker)
thank you very much for the comprehensive outline of the range of interests that were discussed. clearly, agriculture was amongst them, but could i ask whether the controversial issue of beef exports from brazil to the european union was raised, as well as the concerns about standards in relation to those, and if there is common ground on the wto – the doha round – between the two parties? was the issue of double standards – the higher standards within the european union, compared with those countries outside and specifically, in this case, brazil – raised as part of the talks?
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his response. rather than go through every single issue, i will concentrate on the question of police reform because this is the most urgent matter at the present time. are there any proposals from the council with regard to putting together a team of facilitators to allow the different traditions in bosnia-herzegovina to come together to agree a common standard or common code for how the police force should work? it already exists in the border protection area but not on the police side.
acting president of the council. i have of course taken note of your concerns and comments, but i am here on behalf of the council. the council, as such, has no competence to take a decision on intergovernmental conferences, where member states sit around a table to discuss certain matters in their very capacity as member states, that is to say, as independent, sovereign states, in full use of their individuality as member states. the council is therefore not competent to take a decision on this matter. but the intergovernmental conference has its own bodies, its own structures, its own presidency and will of course take note, if it so decides, of any suggestions, criticisms and advice it may wish to give in the course of the work of the intergovernmental conference. however, the council of the european union as such does not have, as i said, to comment on the work of the igc, given the legal nature of the conference itself.
acting president of the council. at its meeting on 12 and 13 june 2007, the council requested the portuguese presidency to respect the timetable for the sis-related evaluation visits with a view to the adoption by november 2007 of the decisions referred to in article 3 (2) of the 2003 act of accession concerning the member states which acceded to the european union in 2004 which will allow for the abolition of checks at internal land and sea borders by the end of december 2007 and at air borders by march 2008 at the latest, provided that all other requirements are fulfilled. as regards ireland and the united kingdom, article 4 of protocol no 2 integrating the schengen acquis into the framework of the european union, annexed to the treaty of amsterdam, refers to ireland and the united kingdom as 'the member states'. the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland, which is not bound by the schengen acquis, may at any time request the possibility of applying all or part of the provisions of that acquis. these member states have not so far requested to participate in the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the abolition of checks on persons at internal borders. as long as ireland and the united kingdom do not make such a request, the council presidency will be able to do little in this matter.
thank you for your reply. there have been statements by the british prime minister, gordon brown, and the irish prime minister, bertie ahern, that both countries needed to end the demarcation between schengen and non-schengen. however, in your reply you say that no formal request has been received from either country. has there been any informal request or approach from either the uk or ireland on this issue, and can you outline for me, if possible, how it might be possible to apply part of the schengen acquis, rather than all of it?
acting president of the council. i cannot and do not have anything to add to what i said in my opening statement on this subject. the schengen convention itself has its own provisions and articles on its application and scope. it is these articles and provisions that we have to adhere to.
acting president of the council. the eu-israel working group on human rights, set up at the meeting of the political dialogue and cooperation subcommittee on 21 november 2005, is the platform for regular, systematic and in-depth analysis and debate on human rights issues between the two sides, as the honourable member and the council itself intend. in addition, the issue of human rights remains a permanent theme at all levels of the ongoing political contacts between the european union and israel. the findings of the civil society organisations to which the honourable member refers in his question already contribute to these exchanges.
quite honestly, that is a non-answer. i asked if the working group, which has met only twice since 2005, would be upgraded to a subcommittee on human rights. after 40 years of occupation of the palestinian territories, there are clearly persistent breaches of palestinian human rights as a result of the israeli occupation of palestinian territories. i ask the council to indicate what its attitude is to upgrading the human rights working group to a subcommittee, which would meet regularly and keep some kind of pressure on the israeli authorities to comply with human rights norms, which we all expect civilised societies and democracies to comply with.
madam president, we in the eu set great store by human rights. we try to inspire the nations with which we interact to have a good level of human rights also. dialogue is an important starting-point, but in this dialogue we must be willing to risk even economic advantage in order to speak courageously and truthfully. china comes into this report; we know of serious cases of political and religious persecution there. two years ago, in china, i met a psychiatrist who was chair of a disability organisation. proudly, he told me that they had almost no one with down syndrome in his city of over 10 million people, because they were not allowed to live. this discrimination against persons with disabilities requires forthright dialogue, regardless of the economics between the eu and china. on the issue of trade relations, in bringing pressure to bear on a government to improve its human rights, we must be willing to take decisive action, but careful that such actions do not make the situation of the poor in the country even worse.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i welcome ms fraga estévez’s report, and particularly her highlighting of concerns on this proposal from the commission, as i have serious reservations about the commissioner’s proposals to adopt a maximum sustainable yield (msy) model as the reference point for managing fish stocks. the year 2015 is a political date, not a scientific one. it is too early for some stocks and is too late for others in the context of overfishing. while the proposal aims to maximise the economic yield of a fishery, and also maintain the capacity of the stock to produce maximum sustainable returns in the long-term, i fear that, far from reducing the levels of discarded catch, critical flaws in the model may cause over-exploitation, as the underlying assumptions used for calculating levels of catch are based on single-species, shallow-water fisheries and do not take account of geographic and biological diversity. i applaud the objective of increasing efficiency in protecting fish species, as all of us must do. but i believe that the commission has not sufficiently researched this. there has been no in-depth evaluation of the risks of error in the msy model. moreover, for the large majority of scientists and also for the un food and agriculture organisation, the traditional msy model has been superseded by new cutting-edge approaches which encompass the ecosystem as a whole, rather than relying on an outdated concept of animal population dynamics. msy is a blunt instrument, based on harvesting surplus production during high growth of population before it reaches carrying capacity. but it is one which can lead to overfishing when applied to multi-species fisheries, as you cannot obtain optimum levels of all species at the same time, or when it is applied to pelagic species that dwell in deep seas and open water such as the north sea and the atlantic. if adopted, this model will simultaneously result in the collapse of stocks and the collapse of the market. i urge the commissioner to take a sound, scientific and evidence-based approach. your own words, commissioner, are that you should not prejudice the scientific debate. i agree with you. take a scientific, evidence-based approach and re-examine this proposal rather than – with respect – just dance, albeit belatedly, to the tune of the international council for the exploration of the sea.
madam president, i would add my words of congratulations to the rapporteur for her work. we are talking about better law-making. what we are really trying to do is give consumers confidence that, no matter where they shop, they will have the same rights. but we are not doing so well, because half of all our citizens are cautious about shopping across borders because they do not believe that they are going to be protected – and that is not surprising. i think it is easier to shop locally, and people are more comfortable with the local. but when you look at retailers, half of them want to do cross-border trading – and, in fact, 29% do so. retailers believe that if there was better law in this area, consumers would do more shopping across borders. truthfully, consumers do not care if we have eight or twenty directives. in fact they do not even want to know about what is going on behind the scenes. they just want to feel comfortable and to know that there is simplicity in the law. and in case mothers-in-law were offended by mr stubb’s test, i think that if he read that paragraph to members of this house, considering terms like ‘horizontal instruments’, ‘tools’, ‘cross-cutting’ etc., there would be very few who would clearly understand it either. the real problem, as is pointed out in the report, is that there is fragmentation and uneven transposition of european law. i recently chaired a committee of inquiry into equitable life and we saw very clearly the problems of uneven transposition in the financial services area and the need for the commission to improve its oversight. we made recommendations in that regard. the truth is that the gap between what we agree here and what happens in member states is too great. i want to see electronic commerce included in the scope of the review and other issues like distance marketing of financial services, consumer credit and unfair commercial practices. paragraph 49 is important and it recognises the need for ongoing consumer education. i think the network of consumer centres have a role to play here because two thirds of consumers say that they do not know where to get information and advice on cross-border shopping. that is simply too many people. the issue of redress and collective and class actions; i accept what is being said by ms wallis in this regard and i take on board as well her knowledge and wisdom in terms of law. i want to mention two or three specific issues. european city guide is a problem which is repeatedly coming up on my desk and your desk and yet nobody does anything. unless we do something, consumers think all we do is talk about it and ignore the problem and you really need to take this on board. if the member states are failing, get on to their case and make them take action. in relation to toys and unsafe products; mrs mccarthy has alluded to that. people believe that when they buy products in the european market, they are safe. in relation to brazilian beef we have concerns about that too. so, there is, in this house, a gap between what we say and what we do, but this report is a very good first step in terms of improving consumer protection.
thar ceann an ghrúpa ppe-de. – a uachtaráin, is cúis áthais dom a bheith ag labhairt den chéad uair sa pharlaimint agus ar an ábhar tábhachtach seo: cearta daonna. we find ourselves today having to strongly react, once again, to the unacceptable actions of the military junta in burma. our last urgency resolution on burma was only in june. the recent crackdown on peaceful protesters, who were demonstrating their right to associate, has merited yet another condemnation by the european parliament. the scant regard the ruling state peace and development council (spdc) has for its own people has become all the more evident with their recent imposition of a fuel price increase of 500%. the spdc clearly wants to further impoverish its people. but burmese civilians have shown unbridled bravery in coming out to demonstrate. not only were demonstrators beaten violently by police, but multiple arrests were made and members of the 88 generation students group have been reimprisoned. i call for the immediate and unconditional release of all those who have been detained since protests began as well as aung san suu kyi, probably the world’s most famous imprisoned democratic leader. furthermore, the new constitution, recently drafted by the national convention in burma, is a sham given the simple reason that no democratically elected members of the opposition were involved in the drafting process. this parliament now leads the call for an emergency meeting of the united nations security council to consider the recent events in burma. we need a strong and binding resolution on burma at this level, as this crisis now impacts upon the overall security of this region. countries like china and russia, who prevented the adoption of the last un security council resolution on burma and china of this year, need to play a more responsible role regarding this country and should lend their support to any future un resolution. all that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing. the international community is doing little, while the burma junta is perpetrating atrocities against its own people. how long can we justify allowing this evil to reign?
mr president, we have yet another resolution telling us of the terrible human rights abuses that continue to take place in burma. this latest extended and illegal house arrest of an innocent woman is unacceptable. burma is effectively a prison country which operates under a repressive system of military rule. burma has been designated a country of particular concern by the us for violating religious freedom. the burmese military closely monitors and restricts organisations, activity and expression of all religions because they view them as threats to so-called ‘national unity’. in particular, abuses against christians in burma are widespread and systematic. christians suffer a deliberate campaign of discrimination in their work, restrictions on churches, meetings and literature and the arrest, torture and imprisonment of pastors and church workers. burma’s military regime has no moral or legal justification for their activities of any type. such human rights abuses cannot continue. we, in europe, need to stand up to military powers like burma, regardless of the trade advantage with burma or their patrons like china; otherwise our resolutions will remain ineffective.
mr president, i rise to make a protest and a proposal. i want to protest against the actions of the polish government in blocking a decision in council to have a europe-wide declaration regarding the abolition of the death penalty on 10 october 2007. i believe that delivers a very bad signal to the many countries around the world which persist in retaining the death penalty, some of which execute children and people with mental disabilities. something like 5 000 people are executed by states every year and 28 000 people languish on death row, so it is inexcusable that a full member state of the european union should in any way deliver an opinion which seeks to undermine the argument for ending the death penalty. i wish to propose that you undertake an initiative for this parliament to mark 10 october in a special way, and that you encourage the member states of the european union, and all the parliaments of the member states, to do likewise.
mr president, before i begin can i remind everyone that it is not a question of beet or grain. in ireland, beet was grown in a mutually beneficial rotation with wheat. commissioner, sugar restructuring in ireland was a disaster. it was handled badly by the company greencore and our minister for agriculture. many of my constituents have suffered and social displacement is widespread, which is why the least we can do is go back and compensate these people. our hope of having a rational biofuels industry that was integrated, rather than competing with food production, was set back by years, if not destroyed. when i approached the commission to try to head off disaster, i was told that the scheme was set and that to tamper with it, even for a good reason, would unravel the whole thing. but now we are tinkering with the scheme. is it not possible at this stage of adjustment to do something about the mess left behind in ireland?
in writing. – it is regrettable that the commission has returned within such a short period of time with a second sugar restructuring package for parliament to vote on. the initial package resulted in the demise of the irish sugar industry, to the detriment of the country, farmers and growers. unfortunately, to date the compensation package has not filtered fully down to either farmers or contractors. i disagree with the commission’s attempt to limit the compensation paid to growers and contractors to just 10% in the current package – allocating the remaining 90% to processors seems excessive. in the initial restructuring scheme a minimum of 10% was allocated to growers and contractors, with member states being given the flexibility to decide on the precise share out but with this package the commission is very fixed in how compensation should be allocated. it is clear that increased levels of restructuring aid are needed to reach the commissions targets. i welcome that increased level of restructuring aid will be paid to those who have already quit beet production. i would urge that the compensation payments due to irish farmers and contractors be paid out as a matter of urgency – this saga has gone on for too long.
in writing. in my country, ireland, residential energy accounted for about 25 % of the total final energy consumption. a large proportion of this energy accounted for was connected to the consumption of energy for heat. energy consumption in the domestic sector is greater than necessary, as people living in inefficient dwellings must consume more energy to heat their homes. improving a household’s energy efficiency status can often be achieved by taking some relatively simple and inexpensive steps, such as fitting thermostatic valves onto radiators or using more energy efficient household appliances. other measures include installation of full central heating systems, or the provision of insulation in cavity walls or lofts. these latter options can be more disruptive in the short term, but their impact is long lasting. i would like to call on governments to promote insulation in housing and the other measures that i have mentioned. in promoting these measures one can save in energy costs whilst helping the environment. the vat reduction on renovation should be promoted by governments. better insulation would cut the residential energy consumption down by up to 5 %.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the issue of brazilian beef continues to dominate the headlines, as it is a problem that affects the farmers and consumers of europe. as an irish government mep, i met with the brazilian ambassador to the european union in may of this year and again at the end of august to highlight my concerns regarding brazilian beef exports to the eu. these include illegal removal of tags, smuggling of cattle across borders from foot-and-mouth-affected areas, and the proper testing of cattle. the eu has rightly adopted the policy of regionalisation whereby, if there is an outbreak of foot-and-mouth in a country, only the affected area is excluded from exporting beef. this policy worked well in ireland in 2001 and in the uk this summer, as strict traceability policies were implemented immediately. this level of traceability does not exist in brazil and this is unacceptable from an eu point of view. in the eu, beef farmers have to comply with stringent standards imposed by the commission. i would urge the commission to ensure that the same standards and regulations are applied in brazil as currently exist in europe to ensure a level playing field for all. i am delighted that commissioner fischer boel is visiting brazil next month and i hope that after her visit she will be able to answer the justifiable concerns of the farmers and consumers of europe.
a uachtaráin, tá mise ag plé faoi ghné amháin den trádáil idir an eoraip agus an bhrasaíl agus sin é an caighdeán a ghlacaimid anseo san eoraip leis, ó thaobh táirgeadh feola, agus na rialacha diana a leagaimid síos ar thrádáil feola anseo san eoraip. ach mar sin féin, glacaimid le feoil a iompórtáiltear isteach ón mbrasaíl, áit nach bhfuil rialacha den saghas sin i bhfeidhm agus sílim go bhfuil sé in am ag an gcoimisiún díriú ar an gceist seo agus ceist a chur orthu féin. cén fáth go bhfuil an difríocht mhór seo idir an caighdeán a bhfuil glactha leis anseo san eoraip, caighdeán atá dian agus an caighdeán oscailte atá ar fáil sa mbrasaíl, maidir le hinrianaitheacht na feola, maidir le clibeáil stoic, maidir leis an ngalar crúibe is béil. tá sé in am aghaidh a thabhairt ar na ceisteanna seo, mar tá imní mhór ar chustaiméirí na heorpa go bhfuil an difríocht mhór seo sa gcaighdeán agus is rud amháin é trádáil, is rud eile é sláinte ó thaobh cúrsaí beatha.
member of the commission. there are definitely some countries that are interested more in the international trade in biofuels particularly brazil; that is true, but the doha round of negotiations is much broader than that. it is not only about biofuels, which is one small part of it, and we should definitely agree on a broad range of issues. i would say biofuels will have a very marginal influence on the outcome of the doha round.
member of the commission. it is a normal nordic approach: rather short but straight to the point. i can clearly say that the next two months will be crucial for the doha development round. negotiations have now re-started on the basis of the proposals that were submitted in july by the chairs of the respective negotiating groups on agriculture and on industrial products. the chairs, in producing their negotiation proposal, have done an honest job. i think we can say that they have distributed the pain fairly. they put pressure on each of the key players on each issue of the so-called negotiation triangle – ama, nama and domestic subsidies – which is most sensitive for the different players. it is obvious as well that the text of the chairs is not cast in stone. the wto membership had a chance to offer preliminary reactions to these texts before the summer break. but now negotiations really have to get down to specifics. a further round of discussions on modalities kicked off at the very beginning of september, taking place in geneva. the objective of the wto director-general, pascal lamy, and the chairs is to be in a position to issue a revised paper some time in october to serve as an ultimate basis for a final deal on modalities, to take place no later than this autumn. whether this will be the case, whether there will be a final paper, depends entirely on the negotiating engagement of the different players. the united states should now translate president bush’s political commitment at the apec summit into concrete negotiating moves to try to clinch a deal. it is imperative for the united states to be seen to engage and to move on agricultural subsidies, not least in respect of its objective to ensure access to the developing countries’ agricultural markets.brazil, india and, by the same token, other emerging economies have to move in the right direction and deliver their side of the bargain, and that means cutting, to some extent, their actual tariffs on industrial products. the reality of these talks is that the distance to the finishing line – if we talk in economic terms – is fairly short at this stage, certainly very short compared to the road that we have been travelling until now. the value of remaining concessions that both developed and some developing countries need to bring into the final package is small compared to the systemic gain of doing the deal, especially as global economic conditions are becoming more and more uncertain. but the clock is ticking. if there is no agreement on modalities in the autumn, an early conclusion of the dda becomes very unlikely. the united states presidential campaign will pick up speed and the round might then be put into the deep freeze for years. for the round to succeed now, all parties need to show flexibility and willingness to reach a compromise. the european union will continue to reach out to the various constituencies of the wto membership and their key members to ensure their constructive engagement.
i want to thank the commissioner for her response. i would have liked it if commissioner mandelson was here as well, because i know he had a meeting in america last week, where he was disappointed with the response. but, very briefly, you spoke about the developing countries and you mentioned, as part of that, brazil and india. from an industrial point of view and from an export point of view, they cannot be classed as developing countries. yet at the same time, from a cultural point of view, they are classed as developing countries with regard to the benefits that they will get. should europe give more in the agricultural field, in particular when you see that the us farm bill, which has now come into being, is taking more subsidies out of the package that was originally negotiated, and europe seems to be giving all of the leeway, whereas america is not taking any of the pain? is that a correct way to continue? and, finally, if autumn is the deadline, the end of october is autumn. winter starts on 1 november. so do you see a time frame there for that to be successful?
member of the commission. in defining when winter starts, in my calendar it is december, but so be it. first of all, it is obvious that, when we look at the direction that the us farm bill is taking, it is not very productive in terms of supporting an agreement within the doha round, but we cannot prejudge the decisions in the senate at the end of the day. i am not going into a discussion on whether brazil is a developed or developing country when we talk about the mix of agriculture and industrial products, but it is obvious that, in the agricultural sector – and in biofuels, which were discussed just a few minutes ago – brazil is a very competitive country. biofuels produced from sugar cane are very competitive in the global market.
thank you, commissioner, for your reply. you said that it is very important that the us make an offer. it has been strongly suggested in recent days that the us has in fact made a very significant and very interesting offer on domestic market supports. i would just like to ask you if this is so, and, if it is, could you give us any information? my second question is: would you not agree that, certainly up to now, we seem to be the ones that are making the concessions? can you confirm that commissioner mandelson has offered 70% cuts in support to eu farmers, and, if this is so, do you support this position? would you not agree that such cuts would devastate european agriculture and, in particular, the beef sector?
in writing. – in our efforts to tackle climate change we should not jeopardise efforts to protect biodiversity, ecosystems and europe’s food security. the 8/9 march council conclusions specify that the 10% target for biofuels is an appropriate target only if it is subject to sustainable production. the impacts of first-generation biofuels maybe greater than originally thought, for instance the usa’s desire to use bioethanol has led to a massive increase in the use of grain for biofuels production. this demand is having a negative effect on european grain supplies with predictions that it will get much worse as the us surplus of grain diminishes. the oecd-fao foresees a significant impact of biofuels production on agriculture commodity prices with possible knock on effects on food importing countries. a comprehensive international certification scheme for biofuels is therefore needed – as referred both in the saryusz-wolski and thomsen reports – where both exports and imports to the eu are certified. the certification criteria should be designed to ensure that biofuels provide significant greenhouse gas savings over the whole life cycle and that their production does not cause a loss in biodiversity or major socioeconomic problems such as serious food price inflation.
in writing. – it is vital we ensure that the principles and goals of the eu’s development policy are respected and promoted through the measures foreseen in the field of energy and foreign policy. access to energy is an essential enabling factor for economic growth and for the provision of basic living conditions for all human beings. eu member states and european energy companies cooperate extensively with developing countries in the field of energy, yet it is not always clear how much the citizens of these resources actually benefit. for this reason, i support all steps aimed at promoting transparency, the rule of law and improved governance in the energy sector. economic development does not have to mean repeating the polluting practices of the industrialised countries. many developing countries are heavily dependent on high carbon-emitting sources of energy. they need assistance to be able to diversify their sources of energy to achieve a more sustainable mix. i deplore the widespread use of coal-fired power stations in china. we should take all reasonable steps to encourage their transition to clean technologies through building sustainable energy capacity and facilitating the transfer of clean technologies.
mr president, i would like members to take some note of how i voted. the bottom line is that we must and will protect children. we should be uncompromising on chemicals and pollutants that can in any way affect their functioning and development. companies must be held to account. but we cannot stop there. we have to take a serious look at the kind of pressures companies are under. companies functioning in china face these pressures from the chinese government. the rules of the game in china are far different from the rest of the world. if a company is to operate there, it must surrender most of its decision-making and operations procedures to the government. china puts incentives into place which control the vertical operations of manufacturing. the tools used by mattel to produce those 21 million toys are chinese made and owned. the moulds used to form the plastic and put in the machinery to push out all those toys are owned by china. the reason for this is that the chinese subsidise companies’ parts if they remain in china, and to break with this system increases their costs by 20%. so we see that china controls businesses far more than perhaps we realise, and we need to take a lesson from this in toy safety. we must not tolerate this, just as we must not tolerate any of the human rights and environment practices of china any longer.
in writing. i have repeatedly called on the european commission to press forward with legislation which would require all imported products to have a country of origin label. this is extremely important as it has been found that in 2006, 17% of all detected unsafe products, including toys, were of unidentified origin, while 58% are of third country origin. while 48% of detected unsafe products had their origin in china it should not be assumed that the fault lies solely with quality control deficiencies of chinese manufacturers. it has been shown for instance that of the 21 million toys recalled over the past 3 months, by the us mattel company (which also markets its products in europe under the fisher-price brand), 18 million were because of mattel design faults, and not defective manufacture. it has been clear for some time that tougher penalties are needed for both manufacturers and importers, to ensure that they take their responsibilities to consumers seriously; in this case to defenceless children. but some member states continue to resist change at the behest of importers and companies which outsource manufacturing.
in writing. our vote today reflects our wish to see an efficient, humane and rights-based approach to immigration in europe. immigrants of all types must be treated equally and in accordance with the highest human rights standards and decency. furthermore, as a general principle, european member states should accept immigrants on the basis of the need of the immigrants in addition to the needs of the economies of the countries of europe. immigration policy across europe must not add to the loss of vital skills, the ‘brain drain’, in developing countries, member states and the eu commission must not pursue policies which undermine development.
in writing. by insisting that non-eu spouses of eu nationals must have lived in another eu member state before being entitled to residency in ireland, the government is i believe in breach of the 2004 directive. furthermore, singling out the spouses of non-irish eu nationals for the issuing of deportation orders is contrary to eu legislation which bans discrimination based on nationality. i would remind the commission that they informed the european parliament in 2006 that the 2004 directive on residency should be interpreted by member states in accordance with the european court of justice decisions in july 2002 (case no c/459/99 (mrax)) and again in april 2005 (case no c/157/03). these decisions established that the right of entry and residency in the community of a third-country national who is a member of an eu citizen’s family arises from that relationship, and depends neither on the legality of their previous residence in the community nor on the presentation of a residence permit or other permit issued by another member state. ireland’s actions clearly breach those court decisions. consequently the commission is obliged under the treaties to take action against the irish government.
mr president, turning a blind eye to torture and breaches of human rights by a state will not defeat terrorism. it will deepen a sense of grievance and create new recruits for terrorist activity. that is the bitter lesson from 30 years of strife in northern ireland. turning a blind eye to breaches of human rights and to torture is not an option for a democratic state. on the contrary, in working to end terror, it is supremely important that we demonstrate the strength of our commitment to justice. the lack of response by member states to the recommendations of this parliament is quite appalling. it is equally sad, i have to say, to see some on the right of this house continuing, ostrich-like, to deny the obvious. the us has admitted illegal detentions, transfer and torture of suspects, and they may, in fact, still be under way. we do not know. some eu member states connived with that breach of human rights. i regret to say that ireland facilitated the landing of 147 cia-operated planes in ireland, some of which we know were involved in the rendition of prisoners. there has been no parliamentary inquiry in ireland; there has been no parliamentary scrutiny of the security services in ireland and there has been no inspection of cia planes. the irish human rights commission has announced that it is reviewing its contacts with the irish government on this matter and is bringing forward proposals at the end of this year for dealing with it. finally, let me respond to mr blokland, who demanded to know the cost of the inquiry of this parliament. it is a legitimate request, but could i ask him what price he puts on human rights? what price does he put on the prevention of torture? i believe we cannot put a price on those things. we have to spend whatever it takes to reveal what is going on and take action to stop it.
madam president, i too support the decision to send 4 000 eu troops to chad in the form of a peacekeeping force. the reality is that there is a wholesale political instability in chad and in the central african republic. we know that genocide is taking place in the darfur region of sudan. if peacekeepers are not sent to chad, we run the risk of an even greater level of instability and violence breaking out in this region of africa. it is estimated that there are as many as 400 000 refugees from the central african republic and from darfur in refugee camps in chad, but there are only 250 guards from the army of chad manning these camps. refugee camps in chad are an enormous humanitarian crisis and the international community, including the european union, must help the government of chad to deal with what is an escalating and growing problem. the stories that we hear from people who have visited the area recently are really awful and, as i said, we have to do what we can to try and relieve the human misery that is going on there at the moment. i very much support the decision to deploy 26 000 un peacekeepers in sudan. the european union must be at the forefront in participating in this peacekeeping force. i also welcome the decision taken by my own government today to carry out an immediate and in-depth assessment of the future role that irish peacekeepers could play in the un and eu peacekeeping missions in sudan, the central african republic and chad.
madam president, i strongly support the sending of an esdp mission to the chad/darfur border and i welcome the opportunity today to debate this proposition. the conflict in darfur has had dire cross-border consequences on neighbouring chad and the central african republic, with a huge refugee spillover and the creation of thousands of internally displaced persons. according to high level expert advice, this mission is doable despite some considerable operational and security challenges. the infrastructure in this area is poor, water shortages subsist and logistic lines are difficult. such a mission will also face threats from rebel groups holding out against the government, but it appears based on a thorough assessment recently carried out in this region that all these challenges are surmountable. so there is no reason to further delay deployment. we have the military capacity; what is now required is the political will. i call for irish troops to form part of this esdp mission. there is a sincere sense of urgency in this crisis region of the world, and ireland could be part of a noble european effort to stabilise this border area. troops could be pulled from the nordic battle groups for this operation. like these battle groups, this present esdp mission is also intended to be a bridging operation. alternatively, irish troops currently in the lebanon could also join this mission. this force has many worthy objectives. it would improve the security situation in this region prior to further deployment of the united nations/african union mission in darfur. it would also be of assistance to relief organisations as it would open up previously impeded humanitarian corridors. thirdly, it would eventually facilitate the return of sudanese refugees. i believe this mission should have a robust use-of-force mandate with reference to chapter vii of the un charter enabling it to have a deterrent effect when necessary, especially in the case of attacks against civilians, camps, villages, humanitarian workers, un police officers and for self-defence. the rainy season is abating. the frequency of attacks on refugee camps is likely to increase as the militia and rebel groups become more mobile now that the rains have subsided. the time for the un to act is now. inaction is costing lives. the eu is the most acceptable organisation to carry out this mission, and it is, based on several accounts, well-set to undertake this task. i urge the council to adopt a joint action immediately and to set the final stages in motion so that we do not miss the boat on getting eu troops in where they are urgently required.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i would like to thank the president-in-office and the commissioner, as well as my colleagues, for their comments so far. the national movement for democracy in burma said 18 years ago: what will it take to make the international community persuade the authorities in burma to take on board democracy? do we have to be gunned down in the streets and this to appear on television cameras before the international community will respond? unfortunately, that prediction is now coming true. we can see that one section of burmese society, the buddhist monks and nuns who live a life of non-violence and of pacifism, who give to others of their time, are now being slaughtered in the streets and intimidated by the military regime. it is incorrect for people to think that any words that we speak here will achieve the ends we want to see. however, likewise it is incorrect that the world has stayed silent for so long; we can no longer remain silent. and, as colleagues have said, it is up to us to use our influence, not just against the burma regime but also our influence with china, india and bangladesh to ensure that there is coherence and adherence to the sanctions that are in place and the demands for democracy. let us act to condemn the violence against peaceful protest but let us also ensure that we can give support to those protesters.
there are two parts to my question. the first you have answered in the sense that you have given me the initiatives that have been put in place, but you have not answered the part about the level of organised crime. many people would feel that is grossly underestimated at the moment and organised criminal gangs are infiltrating huge numbers of countries, if not all countries, in the european union. this is a problem that is not going away and many people feel that it needs to be tackled in a far more coordinated manner than it is at the movement. i suppose what i am asking you is about the levels of organised crime within europe.
i thank you for the reply but i just want to ask you if, in your opinion, a more coordinated approach is needed now in view of the number of member state nationals who travel from one country to the other, especially as is the case in my own country, ireland, where many people from eastern europe come in and bring their cars. i do not think that the council, or indeed the commission, has made adequate provision for this type of travel at the present moment.
could i just say before i ask my question that i think it is wonderful that the president-in-office has spent so much time in the chamber today and participated so well in so many debates. thank you on behalf of the house. with regard to the time-frame for croatia, we know the difficulties that there have been in a number of chapters in getting agreement with the croatian government, but could the president-in-office give a time-frame for when he sees these negotiations being concluded? are we talking about a two-year time-frame or a three-year time-frame? is there an exact time-frame that can be given, taking into account the difficulties that may arise? secondly, with regard to the areas that still have to be opened – the whole area of judicial independence and the police services in croatia – what specific actions have been taken on those areas?
deputising for the author. – i should like to thank the president-in-office for his response. however, the purpose of the question was that the difference of outlook between the us administration and the european union, with regard to finding solutions and building partnerships around the world, seems to have got greater; the distance between the two seems to have got greater in the last number of years. obviously, no matter how good we are in the european union, we need other people to follow what we are doing and, in particular, we can see now, with china and india and other concerns that they have, that america may lag further behind again. so what we are really looking for is specific action on behalf of the european union to encourage our cousins across the water in america to join with us, so we can stand up to the power of india and china in these negotiations.
thank you for your brief answer. i presume the council has a view, because the member states would have a view of how it is being impacted upon their own countries. do you think that the budget of one billion is sufficient and that the fund reacts quickly enough to the various crises that it has to deal with?
i would like to thank my colleague for waiving his supplementary and thank the president-in-office for taking the question. the reason i am raising this is that in ireland we have already gone down from 15 to 13 seats. it is an island off the west coast of europe. it is the furthest point before you go to the united states. there is a proposal now to reduce us further from 13 to 12, at a time when our population has gone up by 12% and is due to increase again dramatically. all i would say to the president-in-office is this: since there are 16 additional seats to be allocated, would you please bear in mind ireland’s case for retaining the 13 seats? i think if you look at the figures you will see that we do have a very good case, and i would ask that this should be taken into account.
madam president, in general i am concerned by the uncritical acceptance by the commission that member states are cutting funding for education. in ireland it is particularly glaring, with the growth in our population and, indeed, as a result, overcrowded classrooms. i have long been an advocate of pre-school and primary education as essential for the personal development of every child. all the evidence shows that the better the education, the better one’s life chances are. it is even linked to a longer and healthier life. i believe the commission and member states must put as much emphasis on quality as on efficiency and equity. the quality of the school environment and teaching are prerequisites to efficiency. children need good teachers with a curriculum that gives a holistic education, one geared to teaching students how to make rational decisions, how to cope with diversity and change, how to communicate with others and, indeed, provide a broad ethical basis for the values they can choose to live their lives by. these are skills they need to make the most of themselves and their society. but there is even a more urgent and basic issue – that of hungry children in our schools. thousands of children go to school hungry in ireland and i am sure we are not unique. it matters not how efficient or equitable the access is, these children cannot do well, and the long-term consequences of that dwarf the savings a state makes by not providing a healthy breakfast for these children.
author. – madam president, there are millions, literally millions, of children who are not considered disabled but who struggle with a significant and disabling condition in the area of learning, movement and communication. although the number of children diagnosed with dyslexia, dysphasia, dyscalculation, dyspraxia and similar specific disorders is increasingly dramatically – dyslexia alone is estimated to affect 10% of children in the us – many, if not the majority, of children affected in europe still remain undiagnosed and therefore largely unhelped. often, when parents express concern they are ignored or told to stop imagining things. often, children – even gifted children – are written off as intellectually weak or clumsy by well-meaning teachers and education authorities because they do not have the expertise to tell the difference. ignoring these conditions does not make them go away. they just become more problematic for the child, who gets increasingly discouraged and frustrated. the children’s self-image can suffer serious damage and their potential can be squandered. we have formulated this question and the written declaration to emphasise the enormity of the problem for children with a specific difficulty, for their family and for the community, and to ask the commission, parliament and council to take these children seriously in research programmes, initiatives, guidelines and strategies. we need to learn more about these ‘dys’ conditions, how to identify them as early as possible, how to intervene effectively. we also need to learn why a child’s developing brain is affected in these ways and how to prevent these ‘dys’abilities where that is possible. we also need to ensure that no-one is considered less important or less valuable because of these conditions. i would suggest to the commissioner that many adults also struggle with these specific learning or coordination difficulties but have no name for their condition or real knowledge of it. many have come up with elaborate compensatory techniques to get by. i collected signatures this summer for a citizens’ petition supporting persons with disabilities and was amazed at how many adults struggle to even write their names. people suffer in silence with their gifts and talents hidden even from themselves by these hidden disabilities. what is the price society pays? people quitting education and working below their ability because of a problem in one area of learning. an educational psychologist told me that the tragedy of these children is that many of them would have done very well at university, where they could have worked to their strengths, but failed to get the opportunity as they cannot get through secondary school because the more general nature of the curriculum means that their particular difficulty becomes an insurmountable obstacle to the standard assessment system. i know one young man who has a specific learning difficulty. he failed primary and secondary school and had to leave the school system without a certificate but, on the basis of an aptitude test and the recommendation of teachers, he did get into a small college. two years later he has proved to be exceptionally gifted in the study of philosophy and has become a popular student leader. our education system in europe tends to be competitive and rigid. the authorities seem to think this is creating a class of educated, skilled citizens, but this inflexibility – a one-size-fits-all approach – is destroying the potential of countless young people. this is not good enough and creates social exclusion which can lead many children to become disillusioned and even, in some cases, angry adults. in ireland, 76% of the prisoners in mountjoy prison have a history of school failure and what are probably undiagnosed learning difficulties. to ignore these children and adults is clearly discrimination. i am very proud of this parliament in the support it has shown for the written declaration, but have one word of caution. the un declaration on the rights of the child states that every child is entitled to primary education, but special-needs children are only entitled to the help they need according to resources. before we ratify this convention and introduce it into our strategies, we must examine it very closely. otherwise we will bring this fault into our own policies.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i would like to join my colleagues in thanking the co-rapporteurs for their efforts with regard to what is a very difficult and complex issue. ultimately, despite what some colleagues may say, turkeys do not vote for christmas, so why would any present member of the european parliament look to see their seat being taken away? there is a legitimate reasoning behind the desire of those who seek to have the highest number of seats available to them in each of the national categories. i would be slow to denigrate that attitude in anybody. because, if anything, when we look back over the changes that have occurred since the first direct elections to the european parliament took place in 1979, there have been phenomenal demographic and population trend changes across the european union, not least because of the expansion of the european union into eastern europe in 2004, which allowed for the free movement of so many people into other countries, which has altered the populations greatly. i think one of the careful elements that we have to speak about (and we can speak about degressive proportionality till the cows come home) is that there has always been a balance between the different institutions – and also a balance between the larger and smaller member states – to ensure that no one institution would have total domination over another, or that larger member states could not dominate medium-sized or small member states. that is why it is important to maintain this balance as much as possible. i welcome the rapporteurs’ inclusion, in a compromise amendment, of maintaining that interinstitutional balance. but, as well as that, when we look at the figures that have been used – and much has been quoted by other colleagues here with regard to the eurostat figures – out of the 27 countries, the figures that eurostat for 15 of those countries are using are only provisional figures from the central statistics offices of those countries. so, decisions are being made on only provisional figures when that could have a lasting impact with regard to the future allocation of seats in parliament. we must also keep an eye on further enlargement taking in croatia, which would also impact negatively. therefore, i would urge caution when voting on this issue.
mr president, once we move away from strict proportionality in elections, we inevitably end up applying political compromise rather than pure mathematics. the democratic principle that all votes should have equal weight is something that cannot be applied until such time as the european union becomes a fully federal system. within the limits set by the council, this political compromise by mr severin and mr lamassoure is a reasonable and well-balanced effort to achieve fair play and solidarity for all the people of the european union. i support it, and i oppose the alternative systems that are being proposed as less fair and less balanced. but, because some have approached this exercise as a national ego trip, it needs to be emphasised that we are dealing here with how citizens elect their representatives to this parliament according to their political preferences, to act as a co-legislator with the council; it is the council that represents the state, and not this house.
mr president, first of all, could i say that mr tannock is doing israel a disservice by his unquestioning support for israel’s illegal activity against palestinians, particularly in relation to gaza. i support this resolution, including paragraph 5. the humanitarian crisis in gaza is not new, nor has it been unforeseen. those of us who have visited the area regularly over the years have consistently warned against the israeli actions, which were driving the population to despair. the economy is now in free fall. social services have virtually collapsed. malnutrition and chronic diseases are rife, and medicines are not available. gaza is now entirely dependent on outside aid, which is being blocked by israeli embargoes. it is a prison tightly controlled by israel, and we cannot allow the well-being of the people of gaza to be held hostage to the political manoeuvrings that are under way. hopefully, these manoeuvrings will lead to peace talks. i condemn the unilateral israeli decision to seize land from four arab villages, which cuts east jerusalem off from the west bank. i regret the fact that neither the council nor the commission have made reference to this, and i would be surprised if they did not know about it. we know about it in this house, and it is public knowledge. this action by israel is totally in breach of the road map, and it is in breach of the agreement that the 1967 borders will not change without a joint agreement between israelis and palestinians.
madam president, i join in the congratulations to commissioner borg on this very important integrated policy document. i agree with what president barroso said today: that a great part of our future lies in the untapped potential of the oceans and the seas and that this policy will generate growth and jobs. we must seize all opportunities that the seas and oceans offer us, while always acting in a sustainable way. commissioner borg, i fully support your work on marine science technology and innovation and your commitment to the aberdeen declaration. i would like to acknowledge the contribution of ireland, especially through the irish marine institute, in helping to form this policy. i welcome your announcement of the package of documents to be launched during the mandate of this commission but, as you have only two years left, i wonder, is this more in hope than expectation that the entire list of the concrete actions will actually be implemented by you? commissioner špidla’s presentation today on the review of labour law exemptions in the maritime sector and commissioner piebalgs’ report on the interlinkages between the eu energy policy and the new integrated maritime policy are a very good start, but how many of the other items in the package that you announced today will require separate legislative proposals?
mr president, i welcome the opportunity to raise the report on industrial relations in the postal sector, which has just been published by the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. indeed, i wish this report had been available before we voted on the postal services. but even now, it is a timely wake-up call for all governments that will be privatising their postal services over the next number of years. in the eu we are committed to the lisbon agenda, more and better jobs. unfortunately, this report tells us that privatisation of the postal sector so far has delivered fewer but, more critically, worse jobs with poorer working conditions. the report states that since the beginning of the liberalisation process, sectoral pay developments in all but three countries have been below the average. but crucially, in all countries, a pay gap exists between employees of the main providers and those of the new entrants or the alternative providers. if left unchecked, the situation will, and i quote from the report, ‘erode employment conditions and lead to more conflictual industrial relations’. so far, postal privatisation has failed the lisbon test.
mr president, earlier today we had the publication of the european transport safety council report on eu progress on reducing road deaths by half by 2010. it contains some good and some bad news. yes – countries have made improvements, and that is to be welcomed, but overall road deaths are still too high and the eu will not, on current trends, achieve its road death reduction targets. in fact only three member states – luxembourg, france and portugal – will achieve the target set. they have succeeded in reducing road deaths by over 8% a year. it is worth remembering that over 39 000 people were killed on the roads in the eu in the last 12 months. had we achieved our targets, 5 000 people would still be alive today. i regret that ireland, my own country, is still in the lower half of the league when it comes to making those necessary improvements. we could take messages from the best performing countries. they have put in a great deal of commitment and political will to improve enforcement in a number of key areas. the eu has just three years left to put in place measures that could see us achieving our targets of reducing road deaths by half. the experience shows it can be done but we need a fresh impetus at eu level to achieve that.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work. this regulation will have positive outcomes, in that it will ensure greater transparency and accountability. this is needed because that should be a requirement in itself for all european funding, but also because it will help to dispel some of the exaggerated myths that abound about the cap. indeed, court of auditors reports tell us that in recent times the checks on agricultural expenditure have greatly improved. this needs to be brought to the attention of the general public. i agree with the rapporteur’s suggestion that there should be a similar requirement for structural funds. it should not only apply to the cap. this transparency initiative should relate to other areas. as we await the so-called ‘health check’ on the cap, it is important that we deal with this issue now, to get it out of the way, as it were. the cap often comes in for bad press but very often these comments focus only on negative aspects and totally ignore the hugely positive benefits which consumers have gained from the cap. since the introduction of the cap, food price inflation is way below overall inflation. the cap has delivered cheaper food for eu citizens, but the cap has also delivered safe food and traceable food. the phrase ‘from farm to fork’ means just that. the cap is improving our environment and animal welfare continues to improve. furthermore, the cap has ensured food security for the eu. many people deride the idea of food security as if such an idea belongs to the dark ages. the world has enough food to feed itself. for how long? a week maybe. just consider the pressure that will come about when we really begin to grow fuel as opposed to food. just consider the pressure that will come about when emerging economies like india and china compete with the eu for food and for fuel grown instead of food. then we will look to the eu and the cap for food security. the cap, like any policy, has its problems, but it has delivered for eu citizens and this regulation will ensure that it continues to deliver in an open and transparent way.
mr president, i wish that a group of farmers who i spoke to this afternoon from the north west of ireland were here to listen to this debate because they might even want to contribute. let us be honest: no one wants their financial affairs made public, and i think there are members of this house who are talking about openness and transparency who would run a mile from it themselves. i liked the point made by someone else this evening that it may be right that we publish the payments of everyone who gets money from the public purse. having said that, i believe we are going to have publication of payments and i believe generally in this term ‘openness and transparency’, but it is a two-way street. i also would question the notion that information is equal to understanding and it is because of that question that i think you do need to have clarification about what the payments actually mean. the group of farmers i met today were in beef and sheep farming, and many of them were using their single farm payment to subsidise their production. perhaps they are silly to do that. maybe they should stop farming and let the farms go to rack and ruin and continue to accept the cheque. some comments have been made here about the failure of policy as though it were farmers’ fault. but i think it is the policymakers of europe who should take the rap for the failures that have been identified. those who talk about intervention and export refunds must have forgotten about the 2003 reforms. we now have a problem of shortages within the european union. we import beef. global demand is rising for dairy products, and grain is in short supply so we have moved on a great deal. yes, publish, but explain. protect people and make sure that they are not ridiculed wrongly for the payments they receive. do not use this as a weapon to beat farmers with. the commission are doing it already in the health check, where they have talked about how, now that publication will be made, we could look at cutting back on payments. perhaps we need to do that at the higher level, but let us be honest in how we debate this topic. i think we do need to review the use that the information is put to.
madam president, first of all i welcome the principle of the agreement. the agreement between the united states and the eu will be, when it is finally negotiated, a major and historic development. for eu airlines it means more transatlantic flights to the united states. it is also good from the point of view of airline passengers, with more airlines, more competition and lower air fares. we have already seen within europe the positive impact that low fares airlines have on the aviation sector in terms of the huge increase in passenger numbers. i pay tribute to the eu negotiators for successfully pursuing what are very difficult negotiations. these are not yet concluded and are taking a lot of patience and diplomacy, but when this eventually happens the net outcome will hopefully have been worth waiting for. i sincerely hope that the outstanding problems with the agreement can be overcome. i agree with all the previous speakers with regard to the problems. we have to dig in to ensure that this is a 50:50 agreement and that, at the end of the day, we fly the flag for europe in terms of insisting that, whatever they look for, we look for too. i believe that the restrictions by the united states authorities in relation to demanding personal details for security reasons are most unreasonable. we have got to ensure in fact that this is not a deterrent to eu passengers going to the united states, because if we do not solve this particular problem it will be a major deterrent. i am now going to be very parochial and provincial. i have another problem, which is that the first international transatlantic airport in ireland was shannon airport. it was the gateway to europe for many a long day, but the mandatory stopover in shannon will now go, under this agreement. that will effectively undermine the viability of shannon airport and have major consequences for the mid-west region, which is a very disadvantaged region. however, that is not a matter for europe but for the irish government. again, at the end of the day, the eu badly needs an agreement and passengers need an agreement – but not at any price.
in writing. during the vote on the lamassoure report we have voted consistently for a fair distribution of seats between the member states and in particular for 13 seats for ireland. we campaigned throughout this process for 13 seats for our country. the arguments in favour are well known. we have a rapidly growing population in ireland – it is the fastest-growing population in europe, both in terms of natural increase in population as well as overall growth. we were also one of the biggest losers proportionally under the nice treaty in terms of seats in the european parliament. unfortunately the irish government did little to support the campaign to retain our current allocation of 13 seats. our vote today will at least ensure that ireland’s allocation of seats will not fall below 12 for the next mandate, with provision for a full review before 2014 including on the vexed question of the use of a ‘population vs. citizen’ statistical basis for assessing the mep allocation in member states.
in writing. i am voting for amendment 26, which argues that ireland should retain the 13 seats it currently has. under the nice treaty, ireland was allocated 12 seats; however, since the nice treaty, ireland’s population has increased by 12%. it is the fastest-growing population in the eu, in terms of national increase and overall growth. this report gives ireland an allocation of 12 seats – three less than the 15 that ireland had for the 1999-2004 term, which means we will lose 20% of our quota from 2004.
mr president, i would like to comment on a letter that was printed in an irish national newspaper last week and was signed by, among others, several members of this parliament. the context is that ireland will probably be the only country to have a referendum on what will now surely be called the ‘treaty of lisbon’. in this letter three demands were made. one of the demands is that the treaty must be submitted to the citizens in a referendum in each member state. the second demand goes so far as to demand that the eu national parliaments make appropriate legal and constitutional provisions to allow for referenda. i have to say that i find these demands astonishing. what about the principle of subsidiarity, where decisions are taken at the most appropriate level, in this case, at the level of the member states? i suspect that, in some convoluted way, those who want less interference from europe are in fact themselves promoting the ultimate interference in the business of member states by demanding that national parliaments change their constitutions and legal provisions to suit the wishes of the letter-writers. that would surely be a democratic deficit!
mr president, addressing concerns about energy supply is one of the major and most important issues facing the european union, linked as it is with concerns about climate change. security of supply and rising cost, with prices up 100% in the last five years, are major worries. well, for ireland the challenges are particularly great. we face growing demand for energy and yet a high dependency on imported fossil fuels. we are 90% dependent. we need to invest heavily in our infrastructure, work towards liberalising the market and reduce our carbon emissions. parliament is looking at an action plan on implementing energy policy for europe. within ireland we are establishing an all-ireland energy market with the merging of electricity markets north and south. that is positive, but it is not enough. the scale of the market is too small. to achieve a harmonised energy market, inter-connection with the rest of the european union is vital for ireland – but that will cost money, and i would urge the irish government to look at the use of cohesion funding to make that investment, because it is necessary for the continuation of irish economic growth.
madam president, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on these three reports. firstly, i believe that we in europe need to be in a position whereby we can produce european crops and european fruit and vegetables that are safe for human consumption. however, we need to achieve that objective in a balanced way and in a common-sense way, so that we protect human health without penalising agriculture. what we do not want is to put restrictions in place that impact negatively on european agriculture and to end up having to import huge quantities of food with all the implications for food miles, and, of course, with little control over the quantities of pesticides used in the production of that imported food. secondly, i support the proposal for a risk-based assessment, which is based on science and will prove workable for member states. finally, i believe a 10-metre buffer zone is a ‘one size fits all’ solution and needs to be modified to allow member states to take local conditions into consideration. as i said earlier, not even the european parliament can legislate for climatic conditions and soil conditions throughout the entire continent.
in writing. – i support the thrust of this report as it enhances the current legislation governing plant protection products in a way that should give consumers more confidence about the foods that they eat, it should give those in direct contact with these products such as producers, farmers, suppliers with clearer guidelines in relation to the use of pesticides and in general, it will provide for the safe production of agricultural products in the eu. however, it is important to point out that increasing legislation in this area will only be effective if there are sufficient checks and monitoring in member states. currently it would appear that while there is some monitoring for residues on food products, it may not be adequate to provide sufficient assurances to consumers of these products. steps need to be taken to ensure that the measures foreseen under this legislation are enforced through effective monitoring.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, the report on the table today demonstrates, once again, the relentless attack on member states that operate low and successful corporate tax regimes. i do not accept that low corporation tax leads to unfair tax competition. i believe that ensuring competitiveness is a vital element in the tax policy mix of a fully functioning single market. where is the commission’s evidence to prove that ccctb will not hamper eu competitiveness? where is the proof to say that it will benefit eu competitiveness? why is it that countries with low tax, low unemployment and high growth are being attacked by the commission? i do not understand it. it is absolutely farcical for the commission to say that setting a tax base will not eventually set a tax rate, because that is already what the larger member states are saying. it does not stand up to any kind of scrutiny. attempts by large member states to giftwrap tax harmonisation in the flowery paper of ccctb will not be accepted by ireland or other member states. the fact of the matter is that it is not the right of ireland, or any other member state, to play a role in setting the tax rate of another member state. the unity of europe is not compromised by diversity in tax policies; rather, the eu’s competitiveness is undermined by the wrong tax policies. i firmly believe that the eu is best served by promoting tax competition, not tax harmonisation. how is it that a country like ireland, and other member states, which changed radically their tax policies and became successful economies, are now under attack? what is the attractiveness of a country like ireland, commissioner, if you bring in this system and eventually bring in tax harmonisation? because that is exactly what it is, and the only way tax will go is up. it has already been said, by people within the commission, that they want to see a tax regime more or less in the middle of what it is at the moment, which is approximately in the low 20%. what would be the attractiveness of ireland or other peripheral countries? there would be not attractiveness, just high unemployment in the long... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the report we have in front of parliament today rightly states that tax competition in the eu has led, and continues to lead, to eu-wide economic gains by way of a dynamic corporate environment. the ccctb could just as easily lead to a less competitive eu and should not be supported, in my view. the eu needs to be responsive to an ever-changing global economy. modern competitive economies need to be flexible to meet the changing requirements of new products and services. the ccctb will undermine this flexibility for a number of reasons. an eu-wide corporation tax base will be inflexible and hinder an individual country’s ability to decide its own legal fiscal strategy, based on its particular circumstances. the ccctb’s proponents assert that each member state will retain its autonomy to determine its national tax rate – but will they? is the ccctb not the thin end of the wedge? if the ccctb is optional, it merely increases the number of bases available to companies and makes the system even more complex. domestic tax law offers certainty to business. a system that is applied in a number of member states may lead to differences over how the provisions are interpreted, bringing about uncertainty for business. in the remaining time available to me, i can simply make some bullet points. first, taxation is a matter of national sovereignty for each member state. the right to choose the level of public spending and the funding of such expenditure is a basic function of national democratic process. it is necessary to protect the flexibility of tax policy in rewarding enterprise and the creation of jobs and growth in the economy. a single base would do away with flexibility. there is no evidence to suggest that a common consolidated corporate tax base will address issues such as competitiveness, compliance costs for companies, transfer pricing and so on. it would not simplify eu tax issues, as the so-called ‘optional system’ proposed would add another layer, as i have just said. the harmonisation of the tax base would lead to pressure on national tax rates. such harmonisation will only increase the attractiveness of non-eu corporate locations. the code of conduct on business taxation addressed harmful tax competition. different tax rates in eu member states are not harmful. i would ask the commissioner, when he brings forward these proposals, as he suggests, next year, to please bear this in mind. member states like ireland have already given... (the president cut off the speaker)
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, comhghairdeachas le ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh as ucht teacht ar shocrú faoi chonradh nua don ae. beidh ar institiúidí an aontais eorpaigh a bheith níos simplí chun cinntí a dhéanamh ar leibhéal an aontais eorpaigh. déanfaidh an conradh nua é sin díreach. oibríonn an taontas eorpach go maith nuair a bhíonn an pharlaimint, an coimisiún agus an chomhairle ag tarraingt le chéile le spriorad nua. mr president, whilst others may say what happened at the lisbon summit was shocking, i am of the firm belief that the elected representatives that are the governments of the peoples of the member states of the european union are entitled to defend what they see as the rights of their people within that union. i think that when we look at the overall example that has been given with this lisbon summit, we can see positives from it: we can see movement forward being made and, most importantly of all, an opportunity for a new zone and a new area of the development of the european union to come into play, in particular with those areas where codecision now reigns on issues of environment, globalisation, research, education and the necessity of the response of the european institutions to an ever-increasing speed of change within the world. but there are also difficulties – and some colleagues have referred to them – in the area of justice and home affairs, for instance, where ireland had to look for a specific opt-in and opt-out with regard to certain areas. that does not mean that we are against more cooperation and coordination. in fact, our role within europol and within eurojust in dealing with drug trafficking and tackling cross-border crime has been ahead of most. we are working with eight other countries in the maritime organisation analysis centre to combat cocaine trafficking. but i think the one and most important issue, when we speak about democracy and ratifying this treaty, is that the ratification process is another step towards informing the people and public of europe of what we can do. unfortunately, in only one country – my own country, ireland – will there be a referendum. i would appeal to colleagues when we speak about the future development of europe not to make the same mistake that president prodi made when he was president of commission by saying that this is only the first step towards a further treaty and further treaties which will bring about change, because the people who vote in the referendum ask the question: what is the point in voting on this treaty if we have to vote again on another one at some future date? allow us, where we have to connect democratically with the people, to tell them exactly what is in this treaty and, most importantly of all, let this be a welcome to small and medium-sized countries of what can be achieved by defending their interests and rights.
in writing. i voted in favour of this first ever mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the fund was set up, following a successful campaign by the pse group, to alleviate the effects of globalisation on european workers. in this instance, the fund is being used to assist approximately 900 workers made redundant in the automobile sector in france.
in writing. there is no doubt that, despite current legislation to reduce pesticides, excessive amounts of pesticides exist in our air, water and food supply, affecting our health and the environment. today however, while my colleagues and i voted clearly for a reduction in pesticides in our day-to-day lives, it is important that we acknowledge the practical reality of the needs of farmers and fruitgrowers, particularly in this climate of rising food prices. we cannot legislate in the abstract! i have voted for a practical and balanced approach and voted against extreme amendments that would reduce our food supply, making farming ridiculously burdensome and impractical. let us not forget that farmers are environmentalists by nature! instead of a pesticide ban, the member states will look at training and information campaigns and best practice and integrated pest management which will benefit us as citizens, consumers and farmers. i have voted in favour of realistic targets for member states while acknowledging the diverse nature of 27 member states. with regard to use, risk has to be the central factor, taking hazard and exposure into consideration.
a uachtaráin, ba mhaith gné amháin den bhuiséad a lua agus is é sin an t-airgead atá leagtha i leataoibh don chomhbheartas talmhaíochta. tá go leor leasuithe déanta ar an cap, mar a thugtar air, le cúig bliana déag anuas: leasuithe mcsharry, clár 2000 agus an díchúpláil ó tháirgíocht a deineadh ar íocaíochtaí le gairid. ba mhaith liom a bheith an-soiléir faoi rud amháin: ní féidir le rialtaisí na mballstát cead a thabhairt aon leasú a dhéanamh ar na híocaíochtaí a dhéantar do cap idir 2007 agus 2013 le feirmeoirí ar fud na heorpa. go deimhin, i mo thír fhéin in éirinn, tá socruithe déanta ag na feirmeoirí seo maidir leis an leagan amach airgeadais a lua don pholasaí talmhaíochta idir 2007 agus 2013. tá a fhios againn go bhfuil scrúdú sláinte le déanamh ar an bpolasaí seo, ach níl ansin ach scrúdú ginearálta. agus ní chuirfidh sé as do na socruithe airgeadais a rinne ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh d’fheirmeoirí na héireann agus na heorpa as seo go dtí 2013. tá súil agam go dtuigtear é sin agus nach mbeidh aon chur as dó sin; agus nach mbeidh daoine ag iarraidh é a chur as a riocht, mar tá sé an-tábhachtach do na feirmeoirí ar fud na heorpa go bhfuil sé sin in áit.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would have been happy to share my time with the commissioner, because i am interested to hear her views on gmos, but i will be here for the entire debate. i think it is true, because it is not the first time we have said it in this chamber, that the unpalatable truth is that the era of relatively cheap food is over and that what has happened was not predicted either within the commission or, indeed, globally. the commissioner has gone through some of the reasons why we now have this imbalance in supply and demand and i agree with her: weather, climate change, the demand from the developing countries and, yes, biofuels are impacting globally – the commissioner has acknowledged that. however, it is important to remember – and there were others in this house prior to my time – what your predecessor mr fischler said when reforming the cap in 2003. he promised farmers better market prices. perhaps we are seeing the impact of those reforms now, and we are beginning to question those impacts because of the impact on consumer prices. we have had positive developments on milk and cereals, but we do not have the same on the livestock sector in terms of the beef and lamb producers, chicken and pigmeat that the commissioner has discussed. we are asking the questions now about the volatility and whether we are happy with that volatility in demand and supply. a major food company said to me recently that the supermarket buyers have no knowledge or interest in the economics of food production, but they are beginning to take note, and that is positive. however, we need to monitor the power of the supermarkets and to look at whether they are passing on the price increases they are charging to the producers of food. that is something i would urge the commission – perhaps the commissioner for competition – to take a close look at. they have refused to do it in the past. concerning gmos, this is a big issue. there is a problem in relation to the differences of approval methods between the european union and the us and we need to look at that. so i wait for the commissioner’s comments on gmos before making my points in particular. lastly, we cannot ignore the impact on the developing world of insecurity, particularly with the grain market, where countries that cannot afford to pay more for food are seeing a massive increase in their food bill. we must acknowledge it in this house and we need to take it into account in our policies going forward.
in writing. i voted in favour of the protocol amending the agreement on trips and access to medicines because i strongly believe the eu should be a key actor in the promotion of public health and access to medicines to all in the third world. this protocol is a step in the right direction.
in writing. while the report contains a number of positive elements concerning greater fairness in the distribution of the tax burden, i cannot support any increased role for the european union in relation to taxation, which would further undermine the economic sovereignty of member states.
in writing. the fine gael delegation in the european parliament decided to oppose the report on the final vote because of the proliferation of references to the ccctb and related matters. we support the lisbon agenda and are in favour of the report, such as recognising the positive aspects of lower taxation and the benefits of tax competition, but do not accept the right of eu institutions to interfere with the rights of member states, such as ireland, who are also in the eurozone. interest rates are set by the ecb and the growth and stability pact sets borrowing and inflation requirements. tax policy is therefore one of the instruments left to those member states under the treaty and should be safeguarded.
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, déanfaidh an coimisún eorpach cinneadh go luath faoi chomhaontú seasmhachta a shocrú idir an ae agus an tseirb. tacaíonn mise leis an gcomhaontú seo. cuirfidh sé teachtaireacht láidir amach go hidirnáisiúnta, go bhfuil ballraíocht na seirbe san ae ar an gclár polaitíochta faoi láthair. is é seo an chéad chéim, do thír ar bith le ballraíocht a bhaint amach san aontas eorpach. although many colleagues have spoken about the difficulties which serbia has faced in the past and the ongoing problems that there are concerning serbian accession and the stabilisation agreement, we must also give recognition to the tremendous road which has been travelled despite the difficulties which have occurred. as with all relationships between countries that are in close proximity to each other, there will still be difficulties in the future with regard to how serbia will deal with the issue of kosovo, their ongoing cooperation with the international war crimes tribunal, and in particular with regard to their relationships with other neighbouring countries that were formally part of yugoslavia. however, the clear message being given by the authorities in serbia is that there is an ongoing desire on their part to see progress being made. they are willing to hear the best practice models that we can encourage for them. and look at what the european union has delivered in the past – over eur 165 million in the reconstruction effort. the issue that we must all remember is that the balkans war continues to be a huge psychological scar on the development, not just of serbia, but of other countries. and indeed, if you look into the recent past of any of our own countries, there are similar psychological fractures which took us a while to overcome. we should give some leeway to allow for serbia to make that transition and that progress. our role and our duty is to ensure that we act as a good neighbour, as a faithful teacher of how best things can happen, but also to reward the good things that have happened.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, i would like to thank the president-in-office and the commissioner for their intervention but also in particular our rapporteur, ms martens, for her work on this issue, because the reality is that we are dealing with a new partnership, a new arrangement between the european union and africa. i congratulate the council for coming forward with the eu-africa summit in december and i would hope that the summit will not rest on whether or not one single person attends that summit. there is too much at stake with regard to the relationship between europe and africa to be determined by whether or not robert mugabe will be there. we all know and criticise the actions of robert mugabe in zimbabwe. we all defend the rights of democratic institutions and democratic movements within zimbabwe and we all call for the protection of those democratic rights, but that should not hinder the proper development and the proper work that must go on between the european union and africa as a whole. the issues with regard to governance, the issues with regard to development aid and, in particular, the issues with regard to free trade are vitally important for future developments of africa. when we speak about development, the european union is the largest donor of aid in the world. ireland, my own country, per capita is the sixth largest donor of aid in the world. but that should not be about giving aid to get something back. that should be about giving people the freedom to free themselves, to trade out of difficulties, to create education, health and infrastructure to ensure they will no longer rely on or be dependent on aid in the future. there are issues with regard to china’s involvement because china does not give the same credence to governance, lack of corruption, openness and transparency that europe does. we should take cognisance of the influence that china has in that developing world. thank you very much, madam president, for your licence.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, education is the bridge from misery to hope. it is a tool for daily life in modern society. it is the bulwark against poverty and the building block of development. thus kofi annan described the strategy in the millennium goals, which are similar to those in the eu development strategy for africa. it places education alongside trade as key to the development of the continent. despite this, the eu is set to join wealthy nations like the usa, australia, canada and new zealand in systematically exporting the skilled and educated from africa and asia. commissioner frattini announced last month that, to ensure europe will get ‘the migrants its economy needs’, over the next 20 years the eu would import 20 million skilled workers from these continents through the blue card system, similar to the american green card. though having a steady supply of skilled workers to fill in the gaps left by our ageing workforce will have benefits for us, this kind of braindraining will be devastating for the poor and underdeveloped countries of africa. europe is also engaged in asset-stripping among africa’s poor. children are our countries’ future, yet eu development funds are routinely tied to population control programmes aiming at eliminating future africans. the eu green paper on demography clearly states that, without population growth, there will be no economic growth. africa is now the only continent in the world with a birth rate above replacement. if we keep our millennium goals and if we keep our promises, africa will emerge in this century as a world leader.
president-in-office, you mentioned – and i was glad to hear you use the word – the ‘trafficking’ issue, because i think that, while we have publicity about children, including the mccann case, there are many children and young adults who are trafficked into member states of the union. i would like to ask you if you believe that enough is being done on this issue. and i would also ask to assist those when they are found in the member state: to rehabilitate them and either get them back to their own countries or to make sure that they do not become criminals within the member state in which they are trafficked. i think this is a really serious problem in the union.
could i urge parliament to show leadership by turning off the air conditioning, because i am frozen and it might help our contribution to climate change? president-in-office, you have answered one of the questions i wanted to ask, but it will probably take more than al gore to get the public engaged in this. i would therefore ask the council to outline how it intends to translate public concern into public action within the european union, and also to take into account that we do not want to stop the developing world making progress, because we are actually gaining from the fact that they are developing.
thank you, president-in-office. i shall have to study your very detailed response, which is one that i appreciate because this is a very serious issue. one would have to agree that the confidence of depositors in northern rock has been shattered, and that there is a knock-on effect. confidence is indeed the key to stability in the banking system and also to cross-border services and business in the financial services sector. do you think that the actions you have outlined are enough to restore that confidence?
madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, and ms sbarbati for their excellent work on the ombudsman’s report. it is important that this debate is taking place at a prime time in parliament’s plenary working day, at a time when it can have a high public profile. the service that the ombudsman provides is extremely important for the citizen: it enhances the positive connection between europe’s institutions and the citizen and enriches the legitimacy of the work we do in the institutions, whether it is in parliament, the commission or the council. the service continues to evolve and that is pointed up quite well in ms sbarbati’s report, where she makes various suggestions, and the ombudsman himself makes various suggestions, as to how it could continue to improve. certainly, the idea of broadening relations with mediators who deal with issues regarding minors and children is an important development. at the same time, there is resistance in the system: resistance to transparency, resistance to a common code of administrative practice for all the institutions and resistance, as well, to updating the mandate of the ombudsman. i believe the european parliament should take a more active role, for instance, in dealing with the transparency issue, and i support the ombudsman’s call for parliament to be more transparent in the publication of allowances paid to members.
madam president, i would like to welcome our visitors, the citizens, to this debate. i hope that they understand what the ombudsman is about, following his very detailed presentation of twelve months’ work in a very short space of time. it is a pity that the ombudsman receives so many cases that it is not within his competence to resolve, but i understand that these are redirected to the appropriate places. it is important to say that to people listening to this debate. those cases do not fall by the wayside, but are sent in the right direction. that you are dealing with a certain number of cases and bringing about a resolution is positive, but we need to do a bit more work to educate people about what you do and how you do it, in order to bring even more cases to your desk. that would do no harm, because i am sure the small number you deal with does not truly reflect the problems of maladministration. turning to the commission, i quite like the idea of a culture of service, but i am not sure that the commission uses the carrot and stick approach internally to make sure that there is indeed a culture of service. this is something that should be done through legislation. are there penalties for divisions or individuals involved in maladministration when it comes to citizens? perhaps that is something we could have a closer look at. i like the idea of putting forward the star performers and the worst performers so that we can have that comparison, but at the end of the day what people want is results and positive outcomes. i keep saying to people in ireland that the committee on petitions does not have huge power, but that through the work we do we can act as a pressure point for action. i wish we had more power, but at least we can use that little bit of pressure to bring about results for citizens. they are not interested in the process. they just want positive outcomes. mr diamandouros, i wish you well in your activities this year and hope you continue in the same way as in the past. i will certainly work in ireland to make sure that we know a lot more about you in the future.
mr president, i just wanted to say that i was very sorry that we have decided again not to receive travel expenses. i would suggest to parliament that, possibly, if they split the price of tickets from mileage, there might be more support in the future. i think citizens will watch this vote and will again be disappointed.
in writing. i supported the joint motion for a resolution on rising feed and food prices which addresses the significant shift in commodity prices in the eu and globally. i also voted in favour of amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, which deal with the issue of gm in feed ingredients. these amendments highlight the realities of the marketplace and merely point out the fact that significant quantities of maize and soya, already being used to produce animal feed in the eu, are of gm origin. the amendments also address the difficulties in relation to the authorisation of gm animal feed ingredients. this situation is having an impact on the competitiveness of eu livestock farmers and leads to the paradoxical situation where eu consumers buy meat and livestock products from third countries that use gm feed. these amendments are necessary to highlight the inconsistency of the eu's attitude to gm and the need for a more open debate about this subject.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, as irish soldiers leave for chad to protect refugees from neighbouring sudan, i am again painfully reminded that this tragedy of genocide in sudan continues day in and day out, without any end in sight. i congratulate this motion for deploring violence, for its support of the un and au missions to sudan. ‘we must show a united front’, the motion suggests; and, whilst i applaud the notion, i fail to see how this can come to pass. you see, the un itself is implicitly divided on the issue. efforts can only go so far while china, a deciding member, continues to sustain and prolong the conflict by supplying the region with arms. once again, we must point the finger at china as the main supporter of the government in khartoum. china exchanges chinese weapons for sudanese oil, and it is not rocket science to see that this is one of the most important ways in which the ongoing conflict is being sustained. we should not accept that the chinese policy of exporting arms remain shrouded in secrecy. beijing does not publish any information about arms transfers abroad and has not submitted any data to the un register on conventional arms in the last eight years. with chinese arms exports – some of them in the attack that was described a minute ago – estimated to be in excess of usd 2 billion a year, the irresponsibility with which they act has to be called into question. if this issue remains unaddressed, it is not just sudan that will suffer. weapons from china can be found as far as australia, malaysia, thailand, south africa; regular shipments are sent to burma and nepal. so, finally, i implore parliament to act to condemn china for its role in underwriting the genocide of the sudanese people. for it is all very well to support peace and the role of the un, but we must do this actively – if not, we risk contributing to the suffering of the sudanese people.
madam president, i strongly deplore the killing of 10 african union peacekeepers on 30 september 2007 by unidentified forces in haskanita in south darfur. at least eight other personnel from the african union mission in sudan (amis) were also seriously injured and another 40 remain missing. i urge the sudanese government to cooperate fully with an independent investigation into the attack and to bring all those responsible to justice. these deaths are a reminder of the gravity of the security situation in this region. unfortunately, there is no peace to keep at the moment but, nevertheless, the international community, including the un and the european union, have a responsibility to try to help secure this region as soon as possible so that peace can be realised in the future. the european union mission to the chad, central african republic and darfur border must also be mindful of the danger of incurring casualties. no one said this was going to be an easy undertaking. it is crucial that eu member states mobilise political, financial, logistical and technical support for the irish, french, belgian, polish and other troops forming part of this mission. we cannot have our troops ill-equipped, like the beleaguered amis. if we are putting our troops in a volatile environment, we must give them the means to protect themselves. this eu mission will have a robust use-of-force mandate, with reference to chapter vii of the un charter, and troops should be encouraged to invoke it. peacekeeping is one of the noblest professions and it is tragic when a peacekeeper loses his or her life whilst protecting the lives of others. that is why we need to maintain pressure on the various parties involved ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, a recent poll in ireland showed support for the reform treaty to be at alarmingly low levels of just under 25% saying yes and over 62% undecided. yet this week the commission’s draft legislative work programme for 2008 states that ‘work will also be continued in order to allow companies to choose an eu-wide tax base’. dr sean barrett, a senior lecturer in economics at trinity college dublin, has today described the reduction of the corporation tax rate in ireland from 50% in the 1980s to 12½% a decade later as ‘the most important policy measure that achieved the transformation of ireland’. the concept of an eu-wide tax base with the dangerous option to collect corporation tax on sales based on the rate in each country undermines trust, contributes to rising euro-scepticism in ireland and is extremely misplaced in the context of the ratification of the reform treaty. i therefore ask that this matter be raised urgently with the commission. our focus should be on the important elements of the proposed treaty and the real obstacles in the internal market, not jeopardising emerging markets, inward investment and the future ratification of the treaty by working on an unwise, distrusted and thus unacceptable common tax-base proposal.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i fully recognise that energy choices are matters to be decided by individual governments in europe. however, i believe that the time has now come for the european union, possibly via the euratom treaty, to set up an independent nuclear inspectorate in europe, which would have the power to fully investigate safety standards at nuclear plants in europe. that said, the british government should map out a timetable for the orderly closure of the sellafield nuclear plant, because of the history of serious safety deficiencies and system failures at this facility. the notorious b30 pond has been home to vast quantities of untreated radioactive materials since 1959, at the sellafield nuclear plant. even the british decommissioning authority is not aware as to the exact levels of untreated radioactive materials at this b30 plant. the british government must spell out a detailed plan as to how it is going to decommission this radioactive dump, known as the b30 pond. eighty-three thousand litres of radioactive materials which leaked from the thorp nuclear reprocessing facility in april 2005 has ensured that this plant has remained closed since that date. the british government should now state that, due to the well-documented safety problems at the thorp plant, this facility should never be reopened.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i can see some of the logic in eu-level legislation regulating water and air quality. we share these in the eu and, indeed, globally. however, i find the logic fails with the protection of soils. soils are much less mobile and, other than the setting of reasonable standards of protection, should be the competence of member states and, within them, the local authorities. before the eu takes too much control of soils maybe we need to do a bit of soul-searching. in ireland, some of the problematic policies in terms of soil degradation have come top-down from europe. for example, the eu sugar reform removed beet from the wheat rotation. the insertion of beet conditioned the soil and made it more suitable for cereals. also, the eu forest grants over the years have resulted in unsuitable spruce plantations that, in growth, have made the soil more acidic and, in harvesting, have in some cases compacted the soil, rendering it infertile, whilst in others have loosened it from the hills, from which it has been washed into rivers and lakes. soil varies enormously but it should be living and renewing. the eu should ban soil destruction but leave its care and management to the people who understand its composition in each area.
madam president, i came to this debate from the committee on agriculture and rural development, where we rejected the proposal for a directive. i favour the prodi strategy with some reservations. all of us want our soils protected, but i think those of us who are concerned about this directive believe that it is not necessary to do it in this way. mr van nistelrooij pointed out a much better way of doing it, through open coordination. the difficulty that i see in terms of soil protection is that we are not doing enough research on how to protect soils and that a great many researchers and advisers in the agricultural area are involved in form filling – forms that are created here in the european union and which take them from their jobs of being involved with farmers in best practice in terms of soil protection. it is very difficult for farmers to come to terms with more bureaucracy. they are dealing with this every day, with cross compliance. i believe that soils are being protected through good agricultural practice. it is a member state issue. i had hoped that the debate here tonight would convince me that we need a directive but so far i have not been convinced of that. i accept the work done by the rapporteur, and certainly she has taken out a great many of the concerns we would have, but it does leave me wondering why we need this at all. i think that irish farmers, who are in large measure now worried about the reform treaty, will see this as another attempt to stifle them in their everyday activities, unless we can convince them that is not the case. i repeat the point that my concern is that the research and advisory work is, in fact, almost being destroyed by the levels of bureaucracy that the eu has created. yes, we need to deal with soils that are contaminated, but we have directives that already do that; they are in place. i am not convinced, from today’s debate, that we need such a directive. i will remain open-minded until the end of this debate and see if i am thus convinced, but, so far, i am afraid not. yes to the strategy, but no to the directive.
mr president, bearing in mind that politics is the art of the possible and that sometimes the best can be the enemy of the good, i would like to thank my colleague mr liese for the tremendous effort he has put in to reach a position – an agreement – not least amongst all of us in the ppe-de group but also with colleagues across this house. international aviation is outside kyoto obligations, and the complete lack of progress in icao over the 10 years that they have been mandated to address emissions makes it important that the eu takes the lead. the proposed emissions trading scheme should apply to all flights, including from third countries, from a common start date for competitiveness reasons. i would now like to concentrate the remainder of my two minutes on one point that i do not think any other colleague has raised. it is a point that is a very serious national problem for ireland. under the proposal, fungibility or convertibility of aviation allowances to kyoto allowances free of charge is proposed. an airline may demand conversion of its aviation allowances to these kyoto-backed allowances, and the issuing member state must comply. this is a huge problem for us in ireland, because, if airlines were to convert free of charge, we would have to replace these kyoto allowances by those that the irish state would have to buy on the market at full market price. the irish registry will carry a disproportionate share of flights on our books due to the size and geographic spread of some airlines, as the airlines, particularly ryanair, are registered with the irish aviation authority for all of their eu operations. the success of ryanair means that they have 20 operational bases across the eu serving almost 130 destinations and, yes, increasing. but they operate only a small proportion of those flights in ireland. i would like the commission specifically to say whether it will accept amendment 47, which deletes those particularly difficult sentences. the polluter-pays principle cannot be interpreted to mean that the irish taxpayer pays for pollution in our fellow eu member states.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, with your permission, i would like to start my speech in irish. tagaim le clár oibre reachtaíochta an choimisiúin eorpaigh a cuireadh i láthair anseo inniu. tá na haidhmeanna seo a leanas i dtús áite ag an gcoimisiún: postanna nua a chruthú agus a fhorbairt san eoraip; cinntiú go bhfuil an taontas eorpach ag tabhairt faoi fhadhb an athraithe aeráide; cinntiú go bhfuil polasaí comónta ann ar inmirce; tús áite a thabhairt do shaoránaigh an aontais eorpaigh; cinntiú go bhfuil ról dearfach ar an aontas eorpach ar fud an domhain. and of course the whole issue of globalisation is one that will concentrate our minds over the next number of years – not just in the short term for 2008 – and i welcome the initiatives taken in particular by the commission to prepare europe to deal with the effects and impacts, both positive and negative, of what globalisation will mean. we can see around the world that there is a threat to democracy also, and the actions that we must take with regard to ensuring that we can best deliver not just aid and assistance to those who are in trouble but also the promotion of the values of democracy, the rule of law, the separation of powers. we have seen in recent weeks that pakistan, georgia and other parts of the world are suffering from new forms of resistance towards democratic controls, new threats regarding the freedom of the press, and, most importantly of all, the annihilation of the will of the people to be heard and to be recognised within those networks. in particular, the continuing crisis around the world – particularly in the developing world with regard to the aids, hiv and other areas – requires us to be more imaginative and innovative in how best we can deal with these areas. but one issue in particular concerns me as we look to the future, in particular the short-term future, and that is the whole question of taxation within the european union. many of us have grave concerns with regard to proposals coming forward from the commission concerning corporation tax, the common consolidated base for corporation tax and, in particular, the relentless desire of certain commissioners to drive forward the proposal which we – i and others in this house – believe the commission does not have the legislative or legal basis to move forward on. i am delighted that the lisbon reform treaty has ensured that the issues of taxation still require unanimity. i am delighted at the fact that no changes can be made without the 27 governments agreeing. there is a place in europe for ensuring that there is competition, not just in economic and in environmental terms, but also in the whole area of taxation. this tax competition is healthy, and we must be given assurances that any proposals coming forward will not have a negative impact with regard to economic growth and employment growth, which is so necessary for the peoples of europe. even if you look at america there is tax competition within the states and it appears to be working extremely well there. the last point that i would make is that, as we look to the future and move forward, the peoples of europe are not asking for more bureaucracy, they are not asking for more regulation. they are asking for vision and a rapid response to the real problems that they face on a day-to-day basis, not some abstract ideologies from an ancient past which i hope we have left behind us.
in writting. – i welcome the commission's presentation of its work programme for 2008. i believe its approach to the challenges currently faced by the eu, such as the volatility in financial markets, combating climate change and ensuring energy security underlines that the eu can achieve together what no one member state could achieve in isolation. only by providing leadership and deliver results in these areas can the eu be assured of its citizens continued confidence. however, i would sound a note of caution about the commission's approach in two particular areas: i believe that moves to develop an eu-wide tax base are misplaced. taxation policy remains an exclusive competence of member states and the proposed ccctb, despite contentions from its proponents, seeks to undermine member states' competence in this area. i believe this will lead to tax harmonisation by default and i would be completely opposed to such a move. such divisive initiatives only serve to create divisions between member states and undermine citizens' confidence in the european project. secondly, i believe that it is critical that the commission strikes the correct balance in the forthcoming "health check" on the cap and the parallel debate in relation to the eu's budget.
in writing. after some consideration and serious doubts with the word “fully” in paragraph 8, i have voted in favour of paragraphs 8 and 10 of the prodi report, as on balance i feel there is a need for an eu framework directive in the area of soil protection to fill in the gaps. such a proposal needs to be in “accordance with the principles of better lawmaking” fully respecting the subsidiarity principle; so tomorrow, i will support the gutiérrez-cortines proposal for a proportionate eu directive which restores subsidiarity, removes duplication of obligations and is overall, a better balance than the commission’s proposal on soil protection. with 300 soil types in europe, only 9 member states with national legislation in place, and the challenge of climate change before us, there is added value in an even-handed eu approach in addressing the international challenges caused by deforestation and decline in water quality, serious soil erosion, floods and landslides and ensuring safe food production.
in writing. amendment 10: a framework directive is not proportional and does not respect subsidiarity. the open method of coordination is a better mechanism than a framework directive in this instance. soil problems are almost always local and regional. amendment 8: i do not consider that an eu framework directive is fully justified. i believe that soil protection should remain within the competence of member states.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report but voted against paragraphs 8 and 10 as i do not accept that there is a need for additional legislation relating to soil protection. there is a range of legal instruments in place already to ensure the maximum protection possible for soil, and until these pieces of legislation are fully implemented and the effects are fully analysed, i do not believe that further legislation in this area is either necessary or desirable.
in writing. the emission trading scheme is the most effective way of dealing with climate change emissions and to facilitate the eu in reaching its target of 20-30% by 2020. we voted today in favour of peripheral regions being taken into account in this directive and in favour of a deletion of a commission proposal allowing an airline to demand conversion of its aviation allowances to kyoto-backed allowances free of charge! we voted to lower the cap allowance which will be the predicted actual end result in negotiations in future weeks, approximately 85-90% benchmarked against 2004-06 emissions. we voted in favour of a review of auctioning in future, if a review is undertaken regarding other sectors. while we did not vote in favour of auctioning today, auctioning in all sectors could be considered as this would decrease the possibility of windfall profits and help increase competitiveness and innovation. what is most important is that industry carries its share of emission cutting in an innovative way without laying the entire burden on the flying consumer.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the portuguese presidency on being able to create an agreement and understanding with regard to the enlargement of schengen, and indeed it is historic. it ranks there alongside the enlargement of the european union and it is one that we should welcome. there are concerns, however, as rightly mentioned by other colleagues, with regard to our external borders and what we can do and how we can deal with them, about the issue of solidarity and about showing solidarity with other member states. in particular, from my own position coming from ireland, because of the common travel area which exists between ireland and britain, there are certain difficulties with regard to ireland becoming part of the schengen agreement, for no other reason, maybe, except the most important one of all: that it would reintroduce a border between the north and south of ireland. so there is a difficulty there but we do not want to see hindered the progress that is being made. now, with your permission, i would like to continue in irish. beidh ar an aontas eorpach leanacht air ag dul i ngleic le hiompórtáil drugaí isteach san ae, le gáinneáil mhídhleathach ar leanaí, le polasaí comónta inimirce, le polasaí comónta tearmainn, le comhoibriú idir póilíní an ae agus le tabhairt faoi choiriúlacht eagraithe. tá europol ag déanamh jab iontach maidir le dul i ngleic le coiriúlacht idirnáisiúnta san eoraip. and together we can actually achieve the required double result of free movement of people and security and certainty for all countries.
madam president, i often take questions for mr mitchell, my colleague. if that is okay with you, madam president, we would take that question.
madam president, with all due respect to ms mcguinness, i think it is extraordinary that somebody places a question and must wait for somebody else.
madam president, you started late on the screen and then you skipped questions. then you allow a seven-minute reply and you go to someone else to ask a supplementary before the original questioner. it is an absurd procedure, and i protest.
madam president, i apologise for the difficulties. i did take the question for mr mitchell because i knew he was on his way down. commissioner, in that lengthy answer, i am not sure i heard you once mention the words ‘rural’, ‘agriculture’ or ‘the need for investment’, because the problem with slums is that 900 million people are rushing to them for a better life, because there is nothing better in the rural areas. i think you need to address the issue of investing in agriculture and rural development in the developing world so that we do not create even greater slums.
madam president, can i ask the commissioner if he is aware that target 11 of the millennium development goals seeks to significantly improve the lives of 100 million people living in slums by 2020? and there are, in fact, something like 900 million people – at least the question said 900 million and i do not think the commissioner questioned that – living in urban slums? the commissioner will be at the eu-acp assembly in rwanda later this month. will he be in a position to give any indication to the assembly there, or when will he be in a position to give an indication to the assembly here, of precise statistics on the way to reaching this objective? you said that you will come back with a plan, you will come back with a report, but will that report give us precise details on how this objective of taking 100 million people out of slum dwellings will be achieved?
madam president, as the commissioner will be aware, the european transport safety council publishes on a regular basis very useful reports in relation to road safety standards statistics and the general performance of various countries. it shows quite clearly that the countries of eastern europe, and, unfortunately, my own country ireland, lag way down at the bottom of the list. would the commissioner agree that the major problem is that accidents which are designated as accidents are not accidents at all? they are, in fact, a result of excessive speed, a result of poor road standards, and a result, in many cases, of excessive alcohol. we know that there is a common european driving licence coming in 2013, so i would like to ask the commissioner whether there is any prospect that this common european driving licence could in fact be front-loaded and be brought on more quickly. secondly, would the commissioner agree that when somebody goes from one member state to another member state as a driver and they have a valid driving licence, should they not be obliged to take a theory test in relation to the rules of the road, signage and various other elements within the particular country that they are now residing in?
i would ask the commissioner to comment on an eu entry-exit issue: the possibility of ireland, with the agreement perhaps of northern ireland, joining the schengen area, given what is happening with the uk on its e-borders initiative. perhaps you would just answer that particular issue as there is much comment about it.
on behalf of the pse group. – madam president, i do not support amendment 1 to paragraph 15, and i am surprised that mr atkins has put his name to it. i believe that it undermines the committee on petitions and the work of the ombudsman, and i would urge members to oppose it. the committee plays an important role in bringing the union closer to the citizen. indeed, we have succeeded on many occasions in gaining recompense and fair play, both for individual complainants and for entire communities. the european parliament is increasingly seen by citizens as an important platform from which to defend their environment, the quality of their drinking water and their archaeological heritage. there are weaknesses, however, which have to be addressed in the mechanisms available to the committee and to the commission in terms of seeking redress and to enforce decisions on governments and local authorities for negligence and, in some cases, deliberate avoidance of the implementation of european law. there are examples: the m30 motorway project in madrid, which i, myself, visited on behalf of the committee, where the authorities are still not implementing the agreed actions to remedy their breaches of eu law; a similar case regarding lettori in italy, who have been frustrated in their search for fair play for over 20 years; and the inadequate laws and procedures to protect drinking water and archaeological heritage in ireland. i believe that, as a petitions committee and as a union, we owe petitioners at least the implementation of decisions that have been made against governments and local authorities. commissioner wallström today pointed out in this parliament that the law is only as good as its implementation. clearly, there are lots of laws at european level not being properly implemented at national level, and citizens will not have confidence in the european union until they are.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. i myself became a member of the committee on petitions just over one year ago and during that time i have had first-hand experience of the very valuable work that is done by the committee. but how often do we as politicians hear of the democratic deficit, and how often are we therefore urged to engage with citizens? well, the committee on petitions is a tangible, hands-on, practical way of engaging with european citizens. there is an essential element of truth in the statement that all politics is local, and while individuals throughout the eu-27 are concerned with the big issues of globalisation, eu enlargement, emigration, energy supply etc., they are most often concerned with how these issues affect their lives, their families and their communities. equally, with european legislation, citizens are concerned with how this impacts on their lives and their communities. and where they perceive misapplication or unfair application of european legislation, they want a relatively simple, easy and effective way of dealing with that situation. that is what they look for in the committee on petitions. if their petition is declared admissible, they want it dealt with in an efficient and timely way, and in this i particularly support the rapporteur on paragraphs 9, 10 and 12, where he calls on both the commission and the committee to improve their timeliness. i also agree with the rapporteur on paragraphs 25 and 26, where he calls for the need to strengthen the committee secretariat and the need to find the necessary financial resources to continue the development of the e-petition software system. in my opinion, the petitions committee is very much part of the public face of the european institutions: citizens can access the committee and have their case heard, and it is a crucial part of eu citizenship. but the system must work efficiently. if it does not, it is the worst of all possible outcomes, because not only do citizens consider that the misapplication or non-application of eu legislation negatively impacts on their lives, but the very system that is there to support them in fact lets them down. that is why a well-functioning, properly resourced committee on petitions, working in good cooperation with the commission and the council, is core to supporting and validating the rights of eu citizens. i fully support the suggestion to enhance the visibility of the citizens’ portal in relation to the right to petition. if citizens know that they have the right to petition and they have the expectation of a fair and timely response, then we are strengthening eu legislation, we are giving it greater legitimacy and transparency and we are strengthening the european union. finally, i would like to say to the commissioner that we must improve the functioning of the committee, as outlined in this report, and that wonderful phrase ‘connecting with citizens’ can become a reality rather than just an aspiration.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i consider the committee on petitions one of the most valuable committees in parliament, if not the most valuable. it is the form in which the citizens tell us how the many laws we tinker with in other committees affect them or do not affect them. without this feedback we are doomed to work in a vacuum. but, in terms of doing our work properly, there is something missing in the procedure: the council and the permanent representation of the member states. how can we get results for a citizen in dispute with their country without that country being represented in the petitions committee? the second thing i want to mention is a particular petition. the people of ireland came to the petitions committee, with three petitions in all, in connection with our most important sensitive archaeological site: tara, the home of the high kings and of st patrick. the petitions committee has responded and has asked for the destruction to stop. the commission has brought a case against the irish authorities and yet, by the time anything happens, there will be a motorway, probably there for already three or four years, and all the destruction will have happened. the irish people will not get over their disillusionment.
madam president, i am here and am delighted to be so, because i think that the work that the committee on petitions does – and i want to congratulate the rapporteur on the work in terms of his report – is very different to any other committee and, indeed, any other report you will find. we are, i suppose, as members of the committee, and to use that well-worn phrase which i do not like, ‘close to the citizen’. i think that is very important. they ring our office, they know our assistants, they ask for help, and we do that. we give them help and bring their petitions to parliament. we also deal with a wide range of issues, and that requires members to educate themselves on all of those issues that come before us, from environment matters to financial services to whatever it is. we are the committee that most frequently meets, greets and deals with ‘real people’ – and, again, that is a phrase i do not like to use, but it is a very important one when we speak here in this chamber so late in the evening. but the truth is that we rely greatly on the commission to come back to us with answers, and sometimes the quality, and indeed quantity, of the responses at meetings is poor, i have to say; not always, but in some cases it is not timely and we could do our business a little bit better. i would support all of the efforts and the mentions made in the report that we do just that. i believe, though, that it takes a particular individual to come to the committee on petitions of parliament. there are many citizens who would like to do it, but would not be able to, so we are dealing with people with great determination and obviously people who are angry as well about what is happening in their member state and they want action. i will give you an example of a landfill dump called whiteriver in my own country, in co. louth. it is on our agenda at some time in the future, but even the threat of the committee on petitions dealing with this issue has resulted in positive action on the ground. so, sometimes, we have an effect and we may not even know about it before the petition comes to parliament. i want to mention particularly last year’s equitable life, which was a child, if you like, of the committee’s work. again, in relation to equitable life, it was very important for us not to promise more to people than we could actually deliver. what the people wanted from us was obviously some measure of redress in terms of compensation for their losses. we could not do that and we were very strict in saying that, but i think it was important that we pointed out where the responsibility lay – and it lay with the uk government. i think it is also important that we keep the pressure on those with the responsibility, again the uk authorities, in relation to equitable life, to get them to take action. a lot of our work is political and it is about pressure points and we have to be determined in order to get results. i would say this and i have said it to my colleagues in the ppe-de group: i think we need a quality-control measure on the work of the committee so that we can do our work better, that we ask petitioners after we have gone through the process what they thought of us in terms of the work we did. i think we should not be afraid of that. lastly can i say, because i say it every time i get a chance, european city guides needs to be addressed, and i hope it will be.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, in recent years there have been many humanitarian crises and as many emergency aid programmes. every day, people are suffering from food shortages and disease; every year there are numerous natural disasters which leave thousands without shelter and a way back to regular life. the principal issues in crises like these are securing the safety of the area and of the people, attending to medical needs and providing food, water and shelter. these immediate issues are primary and all efforts should be directed towards them. unfortunately, victims have limited access to humanitarian aid, and humanitarian aid workers’ lives are being put at risk, due to the rising internal conflict in some countries. sometimes, after the immediate crisis is over and the aid ends, the suffering can again become acute because nothing has been put in place to help people rebuild and be independent in the long run. this is our most important duty: that of aiding others in their time of greatest need. problems with this cannot be allowed to continue and we must find another way to help in both the short and the long term.
in writing. – i welcome this initiative by the institutions to establish an eu consensus on humanitarian aid. it will provide, for the first time, a clear statement of eu policy regarding humanitarian aid. the environment where humanitarian action is taking place is evolving rapidly and continually poses new challenges. there are increasing numbers of vulnerable people in crisis situations and in natural disasters. in 2003 there were 200 million people affected, with 45 million people in need of life-saving assistance. since then we have had the asian tsunami, numerous earthquakes, floods and hurricanes affecting central america and the horrific situation in darfur. the consensus will underline the humanitarian principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. development assistance is a crucial link to preventing humanitarian emergencies. disaster risk reduction and a clear commitment to link relief, rehabilitation and development are essential. military forces have become increasingly involved in the provision of relief and reconstruction assistance to civilian populations. such encroachment into what has traditionally been seen as humanitarian or development space raises important questions. the distinction between civilian and military actors is a concern for many working in the humanitarian field. the mandates of the different actors must be clearly defined.
a uachtaráin, is chun leasa an aontais eorpaigh é go mbeadh córas trádála idirnáisiúnta láidir agus cothrom ann faoi choimirce na heagraíochta trádála domhanda. ní féidir glacadh leis, mar sin, nach mbeadh i gceist le cainteanna doha ach caint faoin aontas eorpach a bheith ag géilleadh tuilleadh maidir le cúrsaí talmhaíochta. tar éis an tsaoil, níl sa talmhaíocht ach 5% de thrádáil an domhain mhóir. cad faoin 95% eile? an mbeadh sé i gceist aon ghéilleadh a bheith anseo? creidimse go bhfuil an iomarca géillte ag coimisinéir mandelson cheana féin maidir le cúrsaí talmhaíochta san aontas eorpach. tá laghdú 46% ar tharaifí iompórtála ar ábhair thalmhaíochta á mholadh aige faoi láthair. ba chóir dúinn, mar a dúirt an tuachtarán sarkozy anseo inné sa pharlaimint, ár bhfoinsí bia a choimeád ag baile. níl tada géillte ag meiriceá, mar shampla, i réimsí na talmhaíochta go dtí seo. níl le déanamh ach féachaint ar bhille talmhaíochta na stát aontaithe a foilsíodh le déanaí chun fianaise a fháil dó sin. caithfear dul chun cinn a dhéanamh maidir le cainteanna trádála domhanda i réimsí na tionsclaíochta, na trádála agus na seirbhíse dhe. is ráta 4% an meántharaif atá i bhfeidhm san aontas eorpach ach tá rátaí chomh hard le 30% san áise agus i meiriceá theas. beidh ar mhargaí na hindia agus na síne oscailt suas chun margaí bogearraí agus teileachumarsáide a oscailt chun seans a thabhairt d’iomaitheoirí dul chun cinn a dhéanamh. ní mór freisin simpliú a dhéanamh ar phróiseas custaim mar chuid de shocruithe trádála amach anseo.
in writing. on balance, i voted in favour of the gutiérrez-cortines report as i believe her text has substantially rewritten the soil proposal to restore subsidiarity, remove duplication of obligations and introduce a voluntary code of conduct for agriculture, without imposing further red tape. it also recognises, very validly, the important role of farmers as the custodians of the soil. it is important that the soil proposal both protects peatlands as valuable habitats under threat, while at the same time allows for the appropriate extraction of peat as a raw material. it is not clear whether amendment 36 of the gutiérrez-cortines report (on the adjustment of the list of functions in article 1) allows this and i urge the commission and or council to clarify this in their considerations.
in writing. amendment 112: i am rejecting the commission proposal, as a soil framework directive would simply mean increased bureaucracy and duplication of regulations without bringing about any additional improvements to soil protection. a wide range of measures exist under the cap reform, as well as under the reform of environmental legislation, and these will bring about benefits for soil protection.
in writing. despite my stated opposition to a proposal for a directive on soil protection, i voted in favour of this report at the final vote. i have already placed my opposition to such a directive on the record in relation to the thematic strategy for soil protection. i do not believe that there is a need for additional legislation relating to soil protection. we already have a range of legal instruments in place to ensure the protection of soil, and until these pieces of legislation are fully implemented and the effects are fully analysed i do not believe that further legislation in this area is either necessary or desirable. however, the amendments proposed by the rapporteur go some way towards reducing the level of overlap between this new proposal and existing legislation and this is to be welcomed.
in writing. i strongly disagree with the atkins amendment (amendment 1 to paragraph 15) to the committee on petitions’ report by carlos josé iturgaiz angulo. the ombudsman’s special report regarding olaf concerns the allegations made by the office against a journalist who covered the story regarding its investigation into allegations made by mr van buitenen. regardless of whether mr van buitenen’s allegations are right or wrong, we should defend the right of journalists to report on matters of public interest, even those who work for newspapers which are not very supportive of our views. the ombudsman’s special report found that olaf acted incorrectly in making accusations against a journalist. the petitions committee agreed to request an own-initiative report on this issue in order to pressure olaf into accepting it had acted incorrectly. by voting for the ppe-de amendment, we will be failing to defend the independence of journalists doing their work, failing to support the petitions committee in its work, and failing to support the ombudsman in his work.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i too recognise the importance of pakistan to all of us in the fight against terrorism and it has been an ally to all of us in that fight. however, i do not believe for one minute that it justifies in any circumstances what has happened in pakistan in recent weeks. any deviation from the general democratic process cannot be a solution to solve political problems within pakistan. one of the things that really worries me about this is why he did it: because he was afraid that he was not going to get the decision from the supreme court that he expected or that he wanted. it is a fairly trivial matter in one way and it seems that he has gone to extreme measures in his dealings with the people in pakistan, with the judiciary in pakistan, in the way he has dealt with it, which is extremely dangerous. i welcome the fact that he has given a commitment that he will hold elections, but the international community must not allow him to turn his back on this commitment. the state of emergency in pakistan must be lifted immediately and the government of pakistan must respect the boundaries of its constitution. the scrapping of the supreme court did immeasurable damage to the separation of power systems within pakistan. it is a very, very poor example for the general to have undertaken. i fully condemn the wholesale arrest of political opponents of the general, which include 3 000 peaceful protestors and civilian and human right activists. the european parliament today must send a very strong message out to general musharraf that his recent actions violate all respected international conventions and he is moving pakistan in a very negative and very dangerous direction.
on behalf of the uen group. – madam president, can i too congratulate mrs hassi on her work and contribution to this debate. i also want to congratulate al gore, the former vice-president of america, for being recently awarded the nobel peace prize for his sterling work in highlighting the need for international action to arrest climate change. receipt of this prize is an international recognition that climate change has risen to the top of the international political agenda. it is international action that is now needed, so that we can all collectively ensure that carbon dioxide emissions are substantially reduced in the near future. i thus fully support the 20/20 and 50/50 eu commitments to reduce carbon emissions. bali represents a real window of opportunity for us to agree an official mandate and framework in order to secure clear and firm international commitments for post-2012. in bali let the foundations of the building blocks and road map commence, based on: a shared vision; firm commitments from developed countries; the expansion of the use of carbon markets; the strengthening of cooperation on technological research and the reduction of deforestation. also, let us not forget that the eu needs to deliver here at home and to lead by example. therefore, i look forward to president pöttering’s proposal in february on how this house, the european parliament, can itself reduce its carbon footprint.
given what the treaties of the union say and the content of the reform treaty on the issue of security and defence, and given what the president of the french republic said here yesterday and the fact that france will be taking on the presidency next year, could the council tell the house if it envisages that there will be a common defence policy within the european union in the lifetime of this parliament, or in the next parliament, and when it thinks that might come about?
i would like to thank the council presidency for its reply. is this council presidency aware that there is a school of thought that says that the developing world could greatly benefit from having a financial services sector? given portugal’s experience in africa in particular, could i ask the council president, if he does not have the response there in his brief, if he would cause this issue to be examined and pursued, because it may well be a way of assisting not just the developing world but in having global interchanges, which would be of great benefit to this part of the world as well.
thank you, president and president-in-office for being on overtime as we all are; we appreciate that. what do you think are the obstacles to greater progress in this area, and do you think that, as things stand, enough is being done? because what we are talking about is consumer confidence in the financial services sector, both within europe and outside.
mr president, i questioned the ukrainian prime minister viktor yanukovych during his visit to parliament last march. i confronted him with the problem of the gruesome, but lucrative and widespread illegal trade in human body parts in his country. to my surprise, he did not deny it. in fact he said it was a very painful issue and asked us in the committee on foreign affairs for help, especially with the buyers, many of whom come from the eu. it is important to compliment the ukraine on its honesty about this problem and we should express a strong desire to eradicate it as a trade completely incompatible with human dignity and with closer eu-ukrainian relations. this report is about helping the ukraine in areas like trade. this must include the help that the former prime minister asked our parliament for. it is a matter of urgency, as one cannot talk about further collaboration with a country where the trafficking of living and dead humans makes up a significant part of the economy. the fight against it has to play an important role in the cooperation between the eu and the ukraine.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, having all of four minutes tonight, which is 400 % more than i normally have to play with, i have to avoid becoming too talkative. so i will get on with it. despite the exceptionally technical nature of this proposed regulation, its value to europe and the member states should not be underestimated. the relaunch of the lisbon agenda for more and better jobs in 2005 gives rise to the need for accurate, timely and comparable statistics on job vacancies in europe, by region and by economic activity. it is crucial if we are to plan for the needs of the labour market and the needs of those entering the labour market. i welcome the fact that, in this instance, we are negotiating a regulation rather than a directive, as this ensures speedier implementation once it is approved. and, of course, it is directly and equally applicable to all member states and there is therefore no likelihood of different definitions or interpretations arising from one member state to the next. there is no need, for instance, to transpose it into national law, thus avoiding the delays that this can entail. this is an excellent example of how the eu can add value to the work of member states that could not possibly be achieved by them working on their own or even together. nevertheless, it has taken two years for this piece of legislation to reach this stage and i hope therefore that an agreement can be finalised with the council and that it will be approved at this first-reading stage. i know that in ireland we do not produce job vacancy data, but work by the central statistics office is under way. the cso is highly regarded and it is hoped that, within a year or so, ireland will be able to participate fully in the system. i welcome too the proposal to include personal services, farm vacancies etc., employers with fewer than 10 employees, and the nature of the employment contract. i think this is particularly important in view of the growing concern about the casualisation of employment and the fears in some quarters arising from the move towards flexicurity. i do hope that an agreement can be reached and that we can get on with the job of establishing common statistics right across the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work on this proposal for a regulation on the collection of quarterly statistics on community job vacancies. first of all, let me say that high quality, up-to-date and relevant statistics underpin good policy decisions. this is particularly true at eu level, where we are dealing with 27 different countries all trying in this particular context to achieve the lisbon objectives. indeed, any help or assistance that can be given to member states to achieve these objectives – that is to create more and better jobs – in my opinion will be well worth the effort. i fully support the idea that, while the information required can be compiled by the member states themselves under this regulation in order to ensure comparability of data, we still need the commission to coordinate the harmonisation of the statistical information. and i am satisfied in this context that we do need a regulation – rather than a directive – but that the regulation proposed is the minimum required to achieve the desired objectives and does not go beyond that. i suppose in this context i do not really need to go beyond that except to say that i am particularly pleased to see that we are asking member states to transmit information on personal care services, residential activities and social work activities without accommodation. this information is hugely important because of the growing number of carers in the eu. the ageing of our population is a major demographic challenge and caring is an essential element of dealing with that challenge. those of us who are lucky enough to live long enough will be more likely to need care of some sort and this is definitely a growing market for job opportunities within the eu. while most caring work is unpaid and indeed much will remain so, the opportunities for employment in this area will increase. therefore we need reliable, good quality statistics in order to prepare ourselves to meet the caring aspect of the demographic challenge. to conclude, as i said earlier, in the overall or global context: high quality, relevant, timely, comparable and coherent information is an extremely valuable tool in good policy formation, provided of course that we as politicians use the information that is provided to us.
on behalf of the ind/dem group . – madam president, when i initially heard about the process of social reality stocktaking, i was delighted that someone wanted to hold a real discussion on the state of society. unfortunately, upon reading the documents from the commission, i was disappointed to find that the stocktaking process was not looking at social reality but at economic indicators. i am not convinced that economic indicators are a reliable measure of social reality. if they were, the improved economic status of ireland over the last decades should be matched by improvements in social cohesion, rather than the rise in serious crime, addiction, suicide, alienation, family dysfunction, exclusion and loneliness that we actually see. we would not just ask if a person is employed; we would ask if they are valued, connected and nourished physically, emotionally, intellectually and spiritually, and we would check whether the respect for this person extended to every person, regardless of age, size, ability, colour or any other characteristic. to properly take stock of social reality, we would also look at the sustainability of the natural habitat of the human person: the family. with this in mind, we would not just look at the gap between rich and poor, but the gap left by family breakdown and social isolation. to understand social reality, we must start with the reality of the human person that makes up society. i will give you just one example, and i hope it will illustrate the contradictory results we get if we look at the money and if we look at the man or woman. we all agree that women should have the right to work and find equality when they do. but when we exert economic pressure on women who would like to stay at home with a young baby to work rather than care for the child and push them into the workforce, we register a very high rate of employment and assume that this means a healthier social reality. however, if we look at the baby, hardwired for immediate maternal input, and see the loss he or she suffers, which scientists tell us will be neurological and lifelong, then we have to question whether this high employment really translates as an indicator of a healthy social reality. the irony of short-term thinking, of focusing exclusively on the economics of a society, is that it is the welfare of the people and the family at a human level that ultimately has the greatest impact on the economics. look at the cost of a troubled people to the exchequer. think of the cost of crime, drugs, dropping out, etc. economic growth can be gobbled up by the growth of social problems. the word ‘economics’ comes from the greek for management of the home. economics should serve all people, helping them to be at home in their communities, at home in themselves. if we get this right, we will have a very healthy social reality of which to take stock in the future.
mr president, the social reality of europe is that poverty is rife. seventy-two million men, women and children are below the poverty line, many are homeless and many disabled or confined to their homes because of lack of services. many people are trapped in poverty by inflexible welfare rules. i am afraid that communications and guidelines will not solve these issues. while i do not underestimate the difficulties faced by commissioner špidla, we need to establish legal obligations on member states to achieve the necessary changes. working people are seeing their pensions devalued and their job security undermined, and many fear the race to the bottom. the problem is that inequality is built into many member states’ economic models. for many of them, including ireland, the attitude is ‘let us create the wealth. then we will sort out the social problems’. this is to ignore the reality that social inequalities are a brake on economic progress and that we cannot have long-term sustainable prosperity for everyone if we treat social policy as an afterthought and fail to avail of the wasted talent of 72 million people, not to mention the human misery that hides behind that statistic.
mr president, i should be recorded as voting against amendment 7. i am afraid the wrong light came on when i pressed the button. it should have been a vote against. this does not change the result of the vote, but it is a sensitive issue for me. i would therefore ask that my vote be recorded as a vote against.
in writing. on behalf of the fine gael delegation (epp-ed): fine gael members voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, as we believe it is important to have the european parliament’s view on climate change stated in advance of the bali conference. however, we voted against amendment 7, as we are traditionally opposed to nuclear power.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i welcome this joint motion for a resolution, since i regard it as vital that we protect christian minorities in africa, asia and the middle east. it is important that we protect all religious communities from persecution. i regard it as appalling that people have to face constraints in their daily routine, in what they can do and where they can go, in their ability to own property and to get an education or a job, as well as threats on their life, because of their christian affiliation. the freedom of religious observance is a fundamental human right and thus it is essential that governments ensure that even the religious minorities in their countries can practise their beliefs free from any restraint, that is to say without there being a threat to their life or anything else. muslims must realise that they must promote the principle of religious freedom and tolerance, the same freedom and tolerance for their adherence that they enjoy and expect to enjoy in our countries, many of which have large christian populations.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the prime minister, but in a different way. the prime minister came prepared for a debate on the future of europe but, unfortunately, heard some arguments about europe’s past rather than on where we should all be moving forward. i think that, when we look at the needs of europe for the 21st century, each of us knows what those needs are. likewise, each of us knows that the ideologies of the past have failed to deliver in solving those needs on their own. only by a combination and a coordination of those different methods and those ideals have we seen progress. whether it is in the area of equality, whether it is in the area of justice, whether it is in the area of economic development or whether it is in the area of health and safety, it has always required individual opportunities to pick and choose out of the successful methods of the past. on behalf of my group, i should like to thank the prime minister for the respect he has shown to this house by thanking the union and, in particular, parliament, as the representative voice of the people of the european union. we see ourselves – some of the time – as being the true representative voice. on occasions we may get it wrong, but nobody can argue with our democratic accountability and with our democratic mandate to speak on behalf of the people. too often, the views and opinions of the european parliament are kept to the sidelines as regards what kind of discussion takes place at intergovernmental level. i was delighted, some time ago, that, during the period of reflection on the treaty that has now gone and will not be around again, the prime minister decided to regroup the ‘friends of the community method’, calling it the ‘friends of the constitution method’, to try and form a vanguard as regards how things can move forward. he saw that the success of that move opened up other doors and opportunities for him in government when he needed support with regard to immigration and other developments. if i could make an appeal to the prime minister today as regards the future of europe, i would ask that he would continue to use his influence, not just in the european union but particularly in latin america, where issues with regard to freedom, democracy and respect for human rights are becoming ever more apparent under the guise of democratic movements. finally, some of us see a vision of europe that brings bright stars, great opportunities and, most importantly, respect for the fundamental differences and dignities that exist within the european union. we should reach a point where no longer do we try to homogenise everything into one single shape or size but understand that, by giving dignity to that difference, we can actually create a better, more colourful and, certainly, more vibrant european union for the future. (applause)
in writing. – we have reached a critical period for the economic partnership agreements (epas). a wto-compliant agreement is crucial for the non-least developed acp countries. it is unfortunate that a relationship of trust between the two sides has not always been evident. no country should feel pressurised into entering an agreement. the commission should have done more to make the negotiations more inclusive. the eu is the most important trading partner for most acp countries. the eu imported goods worth a total of eur 28 billion from the acp countries in 2004. this amounts to double the amount of development assistance that was made available through the ninth edf to the acp region, from 2000 to 2007. trade, and not aid, is the key for sustainable economic growth and development. while no one can deny that many acp countries face considerable challenges, if the epas are framed correctly they should be seen as an opportunity for the acp. the european union should be fully supportive of the development agenda that shall accompany any epa agreement. interim deals should be put in place to ensure that there will be no disruption to trade and that the livelihood of millions will not be put at risk.
mr president, it is highly likely that ireland will be the only european country to hold a referendum on the lisbon treaty. i myself am pro-eu and have voted ‘yes’ in all treaty referendums. however, i have a problem, and i am asking the council to solve it. we need a consolidated version of the treaty before we ask our citizens to make an informed choice. to illustrate my point, just look at page 51 of the treaty, a section entitled ‘non-discrimination and citizenship’, one which any citizen might want to read and assess. point 32 states, ‘article 17 shall be replaced by the text of article 12.’ point 33 states, ‘an article 17a shall be inserted, with the wording of article 13; in paragraph 2, the words “when the council adopts” shall be replaced by “the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, may adopt the basic principles” and the words at the end of the paragraph “it shall act in accordance with the procedure referred to in article 251” shall be deleted.’ mr president, i do not need to read any more: i think the point is well made.
in writing. – i welcome the european court of auditors' 2006 annual report as it identifies welcome improvements, particularly in relation to agricultural spending. where errors are identified these mainly relate to weaknesses in internal control systems both in the member states and in the commission. positive developments in agriculture spending underlines the effectiveness of the integrated administrative and control system iacs and the simplification of claim and payment procedures in the newly introduced single payment scheme. for agriculture as a whole - €49.8 billion in 2006 - the court found a marked reduction in the estimated overall level of error. the court notes that the single payment scheme has side effects, such as the allocation of entitlements to landowners who never exercised previous agricultural activity, leading to a substantial redistribution of eu aid away from farmers to landlords. i do not accept this broad statement - as in the single farm payment is paid to active producers not landowners. for the court to say that golf clubs are getting the single farm payment is erroneous. if they are, they should not be, as the payments can only be made to active producers, who farm and keep land in good agricultural condition. golf courses do not qualify
a uachtaráin, vótáil mise ar son na tuairisce seo mar creidim go láidir go dtugann an conradh um athchóiriú, nó conradh liospóin, stádas dleathach don chairt um chearta bunúsacha, ina bhfuil 54 ceart difriúla. agus ina measc sin tá cead chun na beatha, toirmeasc ar chéasadh, comhionannas i láthair an dlí, meas ar an saol príobháideach agus saol an teaghlaigh agus ceart don duine cóir. creidim go dtacaíonn formhór mhuintir na héireann leis an gcairt seo agus ba shin an tuairim a bhí ag an rialtas nuair a aontaíodh an bunreacht eorpach roinnt blianta ó shin. caithfidh muidne reifreann a bheith againn, a uachtaráin, in éirinn agus chun an reifreann sin ar an athchóiriú eorpach, nó ar chonradh liospóin, a bhuachan, caithfidh muid feachtas soiléir, trédhearcach, infheicthe agus proifisiúnta a chur ar bun. mar ceapaim go bhfuil sé i bhfabhar na héireann a bheith lárnach i ngníomhaíocht na heorpa, agus chun a bheith ansin ba cheart dúinn an conradh seo a cheadú go huile agus go hiomlán.
mr president, article 3(d) of the european charter of fundamental human rights allows therapeutic cloning by banning only reproductive cloning. this is contrary to the united nations declaration on human cloning of 8 march 2005, which recognises the necessity of banning all forms of human cloning. cloning, for whatever reason, destroys human embryonic persons. i could not vote for this. i would have liked to have supported article 26 on the rights of the integration of persons with disabilities.
in writing. we welcome the fact that the report goes some way to rebalancing the commission communication in favour of the protection of workers’ rights. while we welcome the recognition of the need to create quality jobs, resource lifelong learning, upskill and train workers on an ongoing basis, and have particular strategies to include younger workers and women, we regret that the commitments are vague and that there is an absence of concrete targets in those areas. a dynamic and flexible economy must serve the rights and needs of workers as well as the interests of enterprise. we reject the one-sided version of flexibility which is presented. we oppose the report due to the fact that in the face of ongoing casualisation and abuse of atypical workers, the eu and member states have failed to act, particularly regarding temporary agency workers.
mr president, in the run-up to christmas, we would normally be in good humour. but i have to say that, in ireland at the moment, the country is quite shocked by young people who are dying from taking cocaine. just today a young girl is being buried, and it is the talk of the country because she was high-profile. but i think it raises a very serious issue, not just for ireland but for many member states and their young people, and how drug-taking is now part of recreation. the european union, and member states individually, need to tackle this head-on in two directions. obviously, we need to cut off the supply, but that may be extremely difficult. it has got to be done by better policing and better work between member states. but we need to cut off demand and we need young people – indeed, all of us – to realise the dangers of drugs. and those who promote legalising them should take note. finally, i would just urge those who are currently dabbling to please stop, and i would express my sympathies to the families in ireland who have lost loved ones.
mr president, one of the more important services europe can provide is to support the collection of reliable, comparable information. for this reason, i can give qualified support to the idea of a european census. however, a few points need to be considered. first of all, there needs to be some recognition of national censuses in the report. member states already hold censuses, and they will now be in a position of having to organise national and european censuses. taking a census is very expensive – it is a labour-intensive activity – and it is reasonable to expect that member states are going to increasingly combine the national with the european census. this needs to be taken into account. it is very important that we allow member states to use the opportunity of a european census to ask questions that are relevant to their own nation and to collate those questions separately from the shared questions or the exclusively european ones. further, more attention has to be given to the census questions. these questions must be chosen carefully and must not cross the line separating valid information from intrusion and attacks on privacy. we want to understand trends, to try to make policies more relevant; we do not want to pry into people’s personal lives. once respectful questions are chosen, then we have to be very careful that they must go through not just a linguistic process but also a cultural translation. as the report does not intend to harmonise the rules on census, this step must be taken to ensure that accurate comparability of data between member states is achieved.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her comments this morning and also mr mulder for his cooperation on this report. last week an rte television programme (which i once edited and presented) asked the very simple question, ‘how many inspectors does it take to examine a farm?’ in the case of one farmer, eamon healy of redcross, county wicklow, it took seven inspections and nine inspectors in a three-month period to examine his farm! and i think that, by any standards, that level of inspection is excessive and very unwelcome on a farm that is active and busy. i think it says a lot about the need to radically alter the way we carry out our cross-compliance checks on farms and also the need to streamline – as mr mulder said – the many different types of inspections, whether they are member state or private industry, or eu-required. about 68% of cases of non-compliance are considered to be minor, yet they lead to sanctions, and i think we need flexibility around this. i believe that a sanction of less than eur 250 should not be imposed. i know the commission has other ideas, but i hope it will be persuaded by our arguments. over 70% of cases are around the loss of an ear-tag or some minor issue about identification, with no problems or risk to human health or animal health, and i think we need more flexibility around this particular problem. we need to be proportionate. i think we do need to give farmers advance notice. many are part-time and giving them advance notice allows them to plan for an inspection. they cannot really alter much on the farm within a short space of time. so i think we need to be practical. i doubt very much if eamon healy, the farmer i just mentioned, is aware of our debate here this morning. i do not think he is logged on and listening. but i know he will be very keen to find out the outcome of our work and our vote. he does not want seven inspections or nine inspectors on his farm in a three-month period and he is telling us that we need to streamline how we do our work. i think we owe it to him and to other farmers to get on with it.
a uachtaráin, tá geallúint tugtha ag an aontas eorpach d’fheirmeoirí maidir leis an tacaíocht a bheadh ar fáil faoin gcomhbheartas talmhaíochta ón mbliain 2007–2013. agus sin é an fáth nach bhféadann mé aontú leis an gcoimisiún agus iad ag iarraidh gearradh siar ar an ngeallúint sin faoin ‘scrúdú sláinte’ a fógraíodh le gairid. tá siad ag iarraidh gearradh siar de 13% a dhéanamh ar íocaíochtaí díreacha maidir leis an méid a bheadh le fáil ag feirmeoirí. sílim gur briseadh geallúinte é seo agus níor chóir aontú leis, mar tá feirmeoirí tar éis socruithe a dhéanamh maidir leis an gcur amach a bheadh acu sna blianta sin agus níor cheart dul siar air. maidir le caighdeáin – agus déarfaidh mé an méid seo – má tá caighdeáin le cur i bhfearas, ba cheart na caighdeáin chéanna a bheith san aontas eorpach ar an mbia atá muid a sholáthar agus a bheadh i bhfeidhm ar an mbia atá muid a thabhairt isteach go dtí an taontas eorpach – agus ní ag cur scrúduithe gan chiall gan réasún ar fheirmeoirí ar fud na heorpa. ba cheart dúinn féachaint ar an gcaighdeán atá ag an mbia atá muid a ligean isteach san eoraip agus sin é an áit ar cheart don choimisiún gníomhú agus ní a bheith ag cur as d’fheirmeoirí atá ag déanamh a ndíchill ar fud na heorpa, agus go cinnte i mo thírse, in éirinn.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the presidency and also commissioner michel and the african leaders for all the progress that was made at the summit. i think very often we look at the negative side but i think that an awful lot of good things came out of it. the theme that emerged from the summit was one of partnership. this was a summit of equals. but we must make sure that this is more than rhetoric. let this pledge to partnership be reflected in practice. to this end we should both demand equal standards from our partners on human rights and deal with them as equals on trade and economic issues. we want to build a new strategic partnership with africa, one that helps to establish a peaceful and secure future for the people of africa, one that helps to strengthen investment, growth and prosperity through closer economic ties, and one that is based on a shared vision of africa. before the summit there were some concerns about president mugabe – but i do believe that he got the message very clearly – and also about epas. i know that i was delighted to hear the commissioner say that he and president barroso had explained and re-explained to african leaders the benefits of this. i want to thank him again for the meeting that i and other groups had with him. they were very clear on the advantages of epas for the long-term economic future of africa and, obviously, for the people of africa. i would like once again to congratulate the people involved in the summit and i think a lot of momentum and progress has been made.
thank you, commissioner, for your comprehensive answer. where i am coming from really – and i know it is not in your area – is in relation to the whole development of internet services and broadband services. across europe there is a 19% take-up. in my own country, there is something like a 16% take-up, and it affects small enterprises in rural areas, particularly where i come from. for instance, i fly out to parliament from the westernmost airport in the eu, which is in tralee. my point basically is that the voluntary organisations of small enterprises who give support to small enterprises have been very good at giving information and i am just wondering whether we can do more with them, helping them to make information available to their members.
thank you, commissioner, for your comprehensive reply. i certainly welcome your indication that there is a new test site now available and that new limit values will be set. i am coming at this from an irish perspective. in the last few years we have had the phenomenon of what we know as ‘boy racers’, who modify old cars, take to the roads at all hours of the day and night and cause a major problem in relation to sound emissions which sound like a jet plane, causing major disturbance, particularly in urban areas. i welcome the fact that there are two regulations, as you mentioned, commissioner: unece regulation no 51 and directive 70/157/eec. but the problem as i see it, in relation to unece regulation no 51, is that it applies only to new cars. i think there should be a specification, at least in relation to the reply received from commissioner dimas: there should be a regulation that there should be no modification of a car and that there should be regular tests.
can the commissioner tell me if there is any definitive evidence or scientific proof in relation to whether or not electromagnetic fields are a hazard to public health? i know that the member states, as he said, have the final competence in relation to their interconnectors and their cables etc. secondly, would the commissioner not agree that, despite the fact there is resistance from industry, at the same time, from the point of view of visual intrusion, public health and the environment, it would preferable if such cables were underground?
thar ceann an ghrúpa uen. – a uachtaráin, tá ceannairí an aontais eorpaigh le bualadh le chéile sa bhruiséil le haghaidh cruinniú de chuid na comhairle eorpaí, lá i ndiaidh shíniú an chonartha um athchóiriú nua. is í éire an t-aon tír amháin a bhfuil sé socraithe aici reifreann a eagrú ar fhorálacha an chonartha agus má chuireann lucht tacaíochta an chonartha feachtas feiceálach, proifisiúnta ar bun creidim go láidir go n-éireoidh leis an reifreann. and, further to what mr schulz said about the dangers of a negative coming from europe, it behoves me, as a representative from ireland, speaking at this round of the debate on the future of lisbon, to point out a number of home truths. firstly, to congratulate all those who have been involved in bringing about the final agreement on the lisbon treaty. but that is only the written document, and we ask ourselves – and often in this parliament we ask ourselves – what does europe want to see? what do the people and citizens of europe want to know about? yes, the citizens of europe want more europe. but more europe, to them, does not mean what a lot of us inside this room might think. it does not mean new regulations, new laws – new restrictions, as they would see it. it means a cleverer europe, a europe that delivers a response to their everyday needs. that is why the lisbon strategy – the continuation and the improvement of the lisbon strategy – is so important as regards what would be happening within the lisbon council meeting. secondly, the whole issue of migration, which was touched on by many members, is putting enormous pressure on resources, not just in financial terms as regards the cost to countries, especially those in the southern mediterranean who are forced to expend huge amounts of money on tackling this problem, but on the social cohesion within those countries as well. it is creating enormous problems and drawing on the goodwill and efforts that will be there. thirdly, and most importantly of all, the whole issue with regard to the kind of development of a european vision that we want to see around the world as is now being played out in bali at the climate change conference, as will be played out in the future at some other conferences in new york in the coming months, and, most importantly, that we have to tell our citizens and inform them properly of what comes before them. finally, could i say to president barroso and to vice-president wallström, as we are having a referendum in ireland: no tax, no tax, no tax. the treaties do not give you the power to come up with tax proposals. the commission should stay away from it.
madam president, on behalf of my own group, whilst we all welcome the opportunity of a robust engagement, which should be allowed within any parliamentary assembly, what happened this morning went beyond what should be allowed to take place in any democratic institution. however, rather than prolong this argument, could we please get on with the vote and get to our lunch as soon as possible as well.
in writing. i could not support today’s motion for a resolution on the fight against terrorism for a number of reasons. firstly, its enthusiastic welcome for the reform treaty (lisbon treaty) is not one i can share in. i believe the reform treaty will not make europe a safer place for citizens of member states. i also have concerns regarding the civil liberties aspects of this motion for a resolution. this motion for a resolution, although it has some excellent points, is unbalanced with too great an emphasis on legislation and security cooperation.
in writing. the fine gael delegation in the european parliament voted against paragraph 16 of the resolution on the commission’s legislative and work programme 2008 as we are vehemently opposed to any eu initiative to establish a european common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). we welcome the fact that the commission does not intend to propose legislation on this matter in its programme for next year. tax competition is vital for promoting growth, attracting investment and enabling member states, especially those in the eurozone, to manage their economy. the ecb sets interest rates and the stability and growth pact sets borrowing and inflation requirements for the eurozone, tax policy is therefore one of the most important instruments left to eurozone member states under the treaty and must be safeguarded. the fine gael meps believe an eu ccctb would lead eventually to the establishment of a single tax rate in europe and are strongly against it.
in writing. do not support the creation of a common consolidated corporate tax base.
mr president, today we witnessed a proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights, and we are now discussing the rise of extremism in europe. to my mind, there is very clear link between the two. the eu agency for fundamental rights was, until recently, known as the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia. we cannot combat extremism without addressing the issues of racism and xenophobia, which are all too present in europe today. extremism breeds extremism, and we in europe are in danger of finding ourselves caught in a very vicious circle if we do not move swiftly to tackle and eliminate some of these root causes. i listened to mr gollnisch earlier on, calling people in this house and others barbarians. he did not put up one credible idea, not one positive idea, of how we can tackle this problem in europe, except the usual diatribe that comes from him. he and his leader, mr le pen, want to come to ireland in connection with the treaty. i can tell you something for certain: those sorts of extreme ideas would not and will not be tolerated in my country, thank you very much. so please do come, and we can be sure that the treaty will be passed when they hear the sort of continental europe that you want to develop, and your kind of ideas. it has been shown that attitudes that made workers receptive... (interruption from mr gollnisch)we know what you stand for, mr gollnisch, and we have heard you so many times, you and your leader. it has been shown that attitudes that made workers receptive to right-wing populism include prejudice against immigrants, nationalism, authoritarianism, social dominance and political weakness, with prejudice against immigrants emerging as the most important factor among these. in countries where appropriate reporting facilities are in place, the most reported reason for discrimination is often region. if we address the elimination of such prejudice and discrimination, we will have taken a significant step forward in combating extremism. therefore, i call on all members to encourage debate and the exchange of views on issues of social inequality, origin, race, religion and the impact of social and economic changes locally, nationally and at all european levels, and not to use emotive language, calling people barbarians. to this end, i welcome the fact that, as part of the work for the european year of intercultural dialogue, the european parliament has invited pope benedict, the president of the african union, the dalai lama, the secretary-general of the united nations, the chief rabbi of the united kingdom and the grand mufti of damascus to address the european parliament during the year 2008. i welcome those sorts of initiatives. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to thank mr klinz for this report. the european fund industry has made some big strides in recent years, and the ucits directive has been instrumental in this. but, while the fund industry has experienced rapid growth, it has much more potential. this potential can be unleashed through increased competition and mobility in the industry across the eu. i would like to make some observations about the report. i can see merit in the recommendation to extend the scope of ucits to invest in open-ended real estate funds and funds of hedge funds, but this should be dealt with, in my opinion, in a separate directive or legislative instrument. i also see merit in proposals to enhance the eu private placement regime and agree that the definition of eligible investors is crucial. it is important to note that, while the definitions contained in the mifid and the prospectus directive offer a good starting point, there may be some additional issues which might also need to be addressed. with regard to investment policy and risk management, i want to remind the parliament that, while cesr is conducting a review of how the risk management process requirements of the ucits directive are implemented across member states, it is not cesr’s intention to harmonise these requirements. certain key areas where divergent practices exist could be explored with the objective of a more harmonised approach. guaranteed funds should be backed by capital advocacy requirements and this should be addressed by only allowing funds to be called guaranteed if they are backed by an adequate guarantee arrangement. i have concerns regarding any call for a depository passport that would result in the depository being established in a different state from that of the ucits. this would create a regulatory gap because a ucits and its depository would be subject to separate regulatory regimes, and complex legal issues might arise in the event of difficulties within the ucits. i thank my colleague for this report, which is a very useful one, and i hope that the commissioner will be able to respond to the points i have raised.
in writing. – i do not believe that sufficient information has been provided on the efficiency and effectiveness of electronic identification (eid) for sheep and goats. furthermore, i believe that an economic assessment, notably a cost-benefit analysis of the impact on producers, is necessary before fixing a date for the introduction of eid. i do not believe there is any justification for setting a date for the introduction of this scheme until the impact of eid, particularly in relation to traceability and disease control, has been assessed. in ireland, the sheep sector is melting down, with many farmers exiting the industry and therefore the imposition of these measures and costs on this sector at this time is unwelcome. if there is a legitimate justification for eid in this sector, stock owners would be responsive and would set about introducing it themselves on a voluntary basis. if and when this eid scheme is introduced it should take place on a voluntary rather than a compulsory basis. furthermore, should eid be introduced it should only apply to animals born after a certain date and should not apply to existing stock.
in writing. during budget negotiations, parliament decided with council to redeploy eur 50 million from the decentralised agencies to part-finance the european gnss programmes (egnos/galileo) and the european institute of technology. it was not indicated which agencies would be affected. the reprogramming concerns the agencies under heading 1a under which eurofound, the european foundation for the improvement of working and living standards, belongs. eurofound is based in dublin. this foundation provides an important service in the area of the labour market and working conditions, and a cut would be intolerable and counterproductive.
author. madam president, i want to make a couple of important and essential points. there is absolutely no doubt that intervention is required in chad. there is no doubt that the teeming human misery of refugees in that part of our world is unbearable to see, but i want to state very clearly that there are a number of core difficulties with this proposed mission. the first of these is the lack of clarity in terms of the operation’s mandate. we are saying that this is a peace-keeping and humanitarian effort. if that is indeed so, then this must be made doubly clear in the terms of reference for the troops we send. i believe that clarity is lacking. i do not believe – and i have to disagree with my colleague – that an intervention shaped in this way will actually increase security. we have recently witnessed a growing intensity and barbarity of the conflict. we have also heard from leaders of many of the rebel groups that any intervention, and this intervention in particular, will be considered hostile. that poses a huge difficulty. i must also say – and, again, i disagree with my colleague – that the troops as currently configured will not act as the neutral force that is required. i have to say, with the greatest of respect for france and her people, that to load the mission so much towards france verges on the provocative, and i think it deeply unwise. i do not believe that it is possible for us to formulate a common european defence or security policy. the difficulties that have arisen – in this instance in relation to chad – reflect very clearly why. i think it is undoable, because we have very different traditions and histories and very different foreign policy goals and outlooks. for this reason in particular it is a great shame – if i may say so, coming from a country that is still at least nominally militarily neutral – that the obligations, responsibilities and capacities of militarily neutral states are not recognised sufficiently in the european union, and particularly not in the lisbon treaty. i believe that countries with that tradition could make the kind of valued intervention based on neutrality that my colleague has mentioned. to conclude, intervention in chad is necessary. however, the essential thing is how we go about this. any operation has to be focused. it certainly has to be neutral and, above all, it must have prospects of success.
author. mr president, i initiated this urgency resolution in order to exert political and public pressure on getting the eu peacekeeping mission to the eastern chad border region deployed as soon as possible. the recent unrest in eastern chad, including heavy clashes between rebel fighters and the chadian army, underscores the urgent need for our presence in this region to protect innocent refugees and internally displaced persons (idps) from getting caught in the crossfire. these military offences are exacerbating criminality and leading to increased insecurity around the idp camps. not only is access to the camps being impeded for humanitarian personnel, but they are wrestling with the problem of banditry, restricting their ability to provide much needed humanitarian assistance. i call on the eu and its member states to honour the political decision made and to provide this mission with more troops and appropriate financial, logistic and air support, including the necessary number of helicopters, as soon as possible. the eu’s credibility in its foreign policy on the world stage is at stake if it cannot mobilise sufficient troops and equipment to make this mission operational. this is an eu peacekeeping mission and therefore concerns all eu member states, whether they are participant countries or not. i would like here and now to dispel the myth that this mission will be french dominated. this mission has troops coming from sweden, the netherlands, poland, austria and ireland. furthermore, it will not be french led but irish led. irish lieutenant general pat nash has been appointed to front this mission, and he will therefore be calling the shots – excuse the pun – concerning troop activities on the ground. this operation is going to go ahead, and such remarks are simply not helpful when it comes to aiding this mission’s perception and eventual reception among the local population in chad and among the rebel groups. there have been some hopeful signs of movement this week from other eu member states, following ireland’s appeal for this mission to be adequately resourced. it appears that one country has offered medical supplies, while other member states are discussing providing funding to assist other countries to supply necessary logistical support, including aircraft. another fourth-generation conference must be called immediately to come up with the necessities to protect our troops in the field so that they can go about their important job of protecting refugees. the time to act is now. our inaction will cost lives.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i would like – i do not think any of my colleagues have done it officially – to congratulate the portuguese prime minister, mr sócrates, on a very successful council and, most importantly, on getting the signing of the lisbon treaty. the point you rightly raise yourself with regard to the issues of how europe can move forward and face the challenges that are before us is one that has been hindered or retarded because of the lack of efficient decision-making within the union institutions. and, whilst some in this house might not agree with the final agreement in the lisbon treaty and others feel that it went too far, the reality was that the existing treaties did not equip us well for dealing with those problems. and, if anything, the conference at bali proved how important it was that europe can speak with a single voice on those areas where the european union has the powers to make those decisions and the ability to act on the global stage. obviously, what took place in the council afterwards is slightly different. and that sets out more guidelines and the way forward that we want to see happening. i should just like to revert back very briefly to what i consider to be the single greatest achievement of the portuguese presidency and that is your perseverance with the africa summit. because, no matter what anybody else says, our nearest neighbour in development terms, in humanitarian aid terms and in risk terms is the african continent and for too long too many member states, too many prime ministers of member states have been standing on their high horse showing high indignation because one particular person in africa was wrongfully abusing people’s human rights and freedoms. but then we condemned all of africa through a failure on our part in europe to help them to build joint and common strategies with regard to how we process development and allow africa not just to grow economically or in trade terms but to allow them to take leadership roles to help those countries in africa that have been successful and to give guidance and direction to other countries that need to be brought forward. in a lot of ways this is mirroring what the european union did at its very early stages, when the vision of the founding fathers of the european union came together after the horrors of the first and second world wars. through their vision they tried to encourage other countries to come forward until such time as we see now: former dictatorships, former totalitarian regimes are now part of the body of democratic families within the european union. prime minister, i congratulate you and all of your ministerial team, but in particular all of your civil servants, because they are the people that do all the background work and create the opportunities for us to shine and to rise. finally, if i could thank the commission as well, because they have had a great role to play with ironing out some of the creases and the difficulties that have been faced in this whole process. i wish you all success for the ratification process. in my country, ireland, we have a referendum when people will have an opportunity to vote, but i congratulate the hungarian parliament for their decision today on the ratification process.
mr president, 2008 is set to be a decisive year for us in the european union and, indeed, the lisbon treaty will potentially shape the union’s future irrevocably. proponents of the treaty here today state that its primary purpose is to streamline decision-making powers. that is not true. this in fact is again an ambitious political strategy to move decision-making in critical areas away from member states to the institutions of the eu, institutions that remain beyond the democratic reach of citizens. provisions relating to national parliaments, citizens’ petitions and subsidiarity are merely tokenistic. in ireland, we will have an opportunity to vote on this treaty, and i am sure our taoiseach must envy french and dutch leaders who can ignore the views of their citizens or other leaders who are not obliged to put the treaty to their people. in ireland our government pretends that our reputation as good europeans requires acceptance of this treaty. in fact the values of democracy, of social inclusion, of building peace, to which the eu is rhetorically committed, are best protected by good europeans rejecting this bad treaty. irish people do not need the great and good of europe telling us there is no alternative to lisbon. i should like to say to those eu leaders who have taken an interest in our country: if you are so keen to be involved in a referendum campaign, organise one in your own country. if not, then let us get on with our debate and take our democratic decision.
mr president, i would like to join in the thanks and congratulations to the portuguese presidency. i have a view, albeit a prejudiced view, that the smaller the nation, the better the presidency, but we will leave that aside for one moment. thank you particularly for the work you did on the eu-africa summit, the eu-brazil summit, the integrated maritime policy and – above all – bringing the signing of the lisbon treaty to a conclusion. there will be no treaty until all 27 member states have ratified the treaty. there is a danger, in the way we speak here and in the language we use and in the tense of our verbs, that there is an assumption that this treaty is going to be ratified by all 27 member states. my own member state, ireland, has to have a referendum, and we willingly have a referendum – even though i would be dishonest not to say that there was just a slight level of almost jealousy when i heard how easy it was for the hungarians to ratify. the difficulty will be with the referendum in ireland, with the risk – as in the previous referenda – that our electorate will take out their increasing frustration with the present government by being tempted to vote against the lisbon treaty referendum when that is not their intention at all. it would be really to give a kick to the government, a mid-term kick to the government you know where. and i appeal to my colleagues in fine gael, who will be doing everything possible to make sure this government successfully achieves the ratification of the lisbon treaty through the referendum, to get out there and to sell the message, to engage with the people, to invest in the message in a pr machine that will ensure that we give europe the answer that it actually deserves. nothing can be taken for granted. we need to remind our irish electorate that it is only since we joined the european union that ireland has become truly independent, culturally and psychologically. membership of the union has broadened our horizons and encouraged us to look outwards. ireland’s success in leaving behind the oppressive legacy of colonialism and in building the new relationship with the uk, which has underpinned the northern ireland peace process, must be seen as a significant part of modern european history, paralleling the fundamental rapprochement between france and germany. i admire ireland’s membership and contribution to the union. i look around me at home and i see a confident, pluralistic society far removed from the introspective sectarian ireland in which our parents and grandparents were raised. europe has helped ireland define our place in the wider world. we deserve to return that to europe by ratifying the lisbon treaty. take nothing for granted, colleagues, until it is done. it will not be easy.
