on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the group of the greens and the european free alliance, i would also like to welcome my romanian and bulgarian colleagues, the new commissioners, and i would also like to thank you, mr president, for giving us the opportunity to listen to the european anthem again, it is truly the most beautiful anthem in the world and it is always a great thrill to listen to it! from this day forward, for better or for worse, our problems, our aspirations, our goals will be a little bit like yours, your worries, your weaknesses, your goals, will be a little bit like ours. we hope that after accession the difficult path of reform will continue, although unfortunately i must say that being a member of the european union is not always a sufficient guarantee of stability, of the elimination of imbalances and of problematic situations, as the example of some old and new countries, among which, alas, i must mention my own, clearly demonstrate! i would also like to thank you, mr president, on behalf of my group, for your summary of the events of the last two and a half years, which i do not remember being so dense and in some ways so dramatic. i would like to thank you on behalf of my group, even though you know that we did not support your election, for reasons which obviously have nothing to do with you personally, but i would like to thank you because you have always done your best to make this parliament a place of credible debate, to spread around the world its value in terms of democracy and harmony. we have often supported it precisely when two major groups, which voted for it, have left it a little alone, for example when it wanted to go further with the constitution, with the financial perspective or with the internal reforms, which unfortunately remained unfinished. today you are leaving the office of president of the european parliament, you will certainly be taking on other posts or you will be sitting with us here in the chamber. once again, thank you for your kindness and your friendship and, let me say, your personal sympathy.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, the temperature in this chamber definitely rose when our new colleagues from romania and bulgaria entered the chamber, and they were helped by a proud and warm feeling. however, we have also felt a rather chilling wind from nationalistic extremists and xenophobic forces that, unfortunately, exist throughout europe. (applause) this reminds us of the basic common task that we all have, despite party affiliations, to defend and deepen european democracy. on behalf of the european commission, i am honoured and pleased to issue a particularly heart-felt and warm welcome to the 53 new members of the european parliament from bulgaria and romania who join this assembly today. bine aţi venit, romania! добре дошли, bulgaria! many of you have already participated in parliamentary proceedings as observers for more than one year now, and i am sure that you will quickly integrate into the fascinating rhythm of this house. you contribute to the work and enrich the discussions and reflections with the political groups, the committees and also here in plenary. the commission and its services look forward very much to working together with you. we, the representatives of the european union’s institutions, have an enormous responsibility vis-à-vis the people in romania and bulgaria and their hopes for the future. we must do our utmost to live up to their expectations and to prove that their belief in european integration will bear fruit and make europe stronger as a whole. your role as parliamentarians is crucial in making your countries’ membership a success, and communication is key to everything. therefore, please go local and talk to your constituents, listen to your citizens and show them how you can take their views and concerns into account. take your time to explain to them how europe works and how our policies affect their everyday lives, and try to give people a realistic picture of what europe means and why being a european matters. the first of january this year was a truly historic moment for all of us, not only for you, the 53 new members of the european parliament, who finally saw your countries join the european family, but also for all of us, because the accession of bulgaria and romania completed the fifth enlargement of the european union, which has contributed to peace, prosperity, stability and democracy throughout europe. let me now turn to you, president borrell fontelles. during this legislature, you have played a significant role in ensuring the smooth integration of the 162 members from the 10 new member states into the working procedures of the european parliament. you have also helped the romanian and bulgarian observers find their way and feel at ease both in brussels and strasbourg. in the name of president barroso and the whole commission, i would like to thank you for the excellent cooperation our two institutions have had under your presidency, starting with the renegotiation and updating of the framework agreement, and also for your very strong personal commitment, your strong political commitment and tireless efforts to increase the responsibilities of this house to move our common european project forward and to defend our shared values. whether it has been your important role in finding an agreement on the financial perspective, as chairman of the temporary committee, your personal initiative to reform the working methods of the european parliament or your visits to third countries, where you relentlessly pleaded the cause of pluralism and democracy, you have left a crucial fingerprint on this house. you will pass on to your successor an assembly which, in the past two and a half years, has successfully demonstrated that it is a reliable and competent partner and which assumed its role as co-legislator with responsibility and authority, be it when finding a compromise on the services directive or when the institutions negotiated the important agreement on new chemicals legislation. in your inaugural speech in 2004, you said that, as president of the european parliament, your passion for democracy would now be united with your passion for europe. on a personal note, let me say that i hope that this marriage of passions will continue for many more years. let me also say, on a very personal note, how proud i was to be with you on several occasions when we met with young people and how impressed i was by the way you handled those situations. like everybody else, i have also taken spanish lessons with varied results, so i would like to say:gracias por todo y te deseo suerte en el desempeño de tus nuevas funciones.
i would remind you that the election of the president takes place at 10 a.m. and that, in accordance with rule 11 (2), no debate may take place under the chairmanship of the dean of the college whose subject is not the election of the president or the verification of credentials. it also recalls that, in accordance with rule 12 (1), candidates for the presidency of the european parliament must be submitted with the consent of the persons concerned and that they may be submitted only by a political group or by at least 37 members. i have received, under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure, the following nominations for the presidency of the european parliament: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the candidates have announced their acceptance of their respective applications. i would also remind you that, under rule 13 (1), a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the first three ballots in order to be elected. blank and blank ballots shall not be counted for the purpose of counting the votes. (the president declared the electors' names to be drawn by lot) the following members are hereby appointed as members of the electoral college: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the appointment of the members of the electoral college. before proceeding to the election i give the floor to each of the three candidates for a speech which according to the rules must last no more than five minutes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is the only supranational parliament with real legislative powers elected by universal suffrage in the world, and the president is the voice and the face of parliament. i am running today precisely because i believe that the ambition to make the european dimension of democracy more concrete and the ability to represent the will of the majority, while maintaining its autonomy of judgment and respecting the value of individual members, are the essential characteristics of those who are chosen to lead our assembly. in the next two and a half years the president, or as i hope, the president, will have to prove many times that he represents an institution which is free from the interests of the member states or the pressure of the economic lobbies and that he is able to speak to an increasingly divided and indifferent public opinion. the president must show that he is able to fight for the constitutional rights acquired by the parliament. we must be able to defend this essential and legitimate demand when we are told, perhaps by mrs merkel tomorrow, that to get out of the constitutional impasse it is useless to go through the european parliament or through a public debate, and that a rapid negotiation between governments makes the matter complete: a cig in house-closure will produce an eternal compromise at the expense of the people. in a world where the commission and some member states still tolerate violations of individual and collective rights as a bargaining chip in the economic sphere, in the control of resources and in the fight against terrorism, the european parliament and its president must continue to give voice and legitimacy to all those who cannot speak and act freely, regardless of where they are, and must continue to denounce publicly uncomfortable truths, as they have done in chechnya and china, with the cia, with guantánamo, with cuba and with many other issues. (applause from the audience) the president-elect will have to ensure that the question of the seat is not continually brushed under the carpet by the big groups. more than one million citizens have signed the one-seat petition, yet the big groups in this house continue to side-step any discussion on the seat of parliament. this issue has become important for the credibility of our institution, whether we like it or not. no matter which way we choose, we must take a clear stand, and this means at least holding a debate on the issue. the elected president must also prioritize internal reforms which have been blocked for too long. our debates must be made more interesting and relevant, and this certainly entails greater flexibility. however, the new president will have to engage with the council and the commission to encourage them to improve the quality of their answers during question time and statements: ensuring that responses are not simply diplomatic hot air is also a way to motivate our members to be in this house during the plenary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. the president of the european parliament should not only be an interlocutor for political groups, but also a guarantor of the autonomy of the ep's staff vis-à-vis political movements. (beifall) the current trend towards an increasingly clear political colouration of administration and a clearer distribution of posts among the ppe-de and pse, the degradation of many of our civil servants and the weakening of our institutions, must be reversed. colleagues, i ask for your support today because i believe that across the political divide we share a profound concern about the risks and dangers of this parliament becoming too quiet and obedient a place. we can and we must reverse this trend, and whatever the outcome of this election, i pledge to work passionately to take forward the difficult task of building a coalition for change. (loud and sustained applause from the green/efa group)
i thank the four speakers for their speeches and for not exceeding their speaking time.
in accordance with the provisions of our rules of procedure, we shall now proceed to the election of the president. i call on the electors to go to the polls. i would also ask the honourable members to go to the ballot box corresponding to the initial of their surname. i call the ballot. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i declare the vote closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. to allow the tables to be opened and resumed at 12 noon) i announce the results of the ballot for the election of the president. number of voters: 715 and blank or blank sheets: 26 and the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. 689 and absolute majority for election at the first ballot: 345 and they got: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision. mr wurtz (ed). - mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. 48 mr monica frassoni: the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. 450 votes mr hans-gert poettering has obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and is therefore elected president of parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) mr poettering, i congratulate you on your election. i invite you to take up the post of president which is your rightful place.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group is celebrating an important moment today with your election, because we are convinced that your election, on a day when the parliament represents twenty-seven countries, is also a new impetus for a europe of things not just whispered and for a house in which clarity and clarity are such that groups count and people count for what they say, for what they do and not just for numerical conceptions. we have difficult and important appointments: i have seen how you have worked in my four terms in the european parliament and so i can confidently imagine a course for this parliamentary term, for this second part of the parliamentary term, which will enable the european parliament to stop dealing with so many sterile things and to take some of the major challenges more seriously. i think of how we have forgotten africa on many occasions, how we are silent about what is happening in nigeria, how the european union has got the wrong target with regard to somalia, supporting terrorists more than the legitimate government. i think about the functional things, the translations that are needed, because as you rightly pointed out today, if we are to talk to other cultures and grow together with them, we need to defend our identities and traditions as well. in this spirit and with this hope, we hope to open a new, important page today, one which will enable us to bring about the institutional reforms we need, but also to be closer to our citizens. good luck with that.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it was a pleasure for me - i am now in this chamber for the fourth time - to hear your words today, madam chancellor, and your hope, but we also need new assurances. you rightly remind us of the responsibility of freedom, one cannot abuse one's freedom to the detriment of others. we believe his words, but we also remember voltaire's words: 'if you want to talk to me, set your own terms'. today, the terms are perhaps the need for clearer and more common internal and external rules, for a charter of duties to be added to the charter of rights in europe, for the duties of citizens towards the institutions, but above all for the duties of the institutions towards the citizens. we need tolerance and desire for the other, we need to see things through the eyes of the other, and this will lead to greater generosity within and outside the union! you are the first female chancellor and the first president of the council to have been born and raised behind the iron curtain, and that is a good omen and a sign of the moral and political growth of our europe. this semester begins with two significant events: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the union is represented by three institutions, but the full political role, if i may say so, belongs to the council and parliament, which cannot be marginalized in the dialogue that must be reopened immediately on reforms. the new treaty must be more comprehensible, more responsive to the needs of our peoples, respectful of their roots and capable of responding to the rapid changes in our society and that of others. we must now reopen the debate in parliament and not just follow the intergovernmental method. we share the presidency's concern about the energy problem, which must be solved within a european framework and certainly not in a bilateral agreement between russia and individual member states. we must also dismantle the concept of eastern, southern, northern or western europe! the living conditions of each of our citizens are a problem for the whole union. energy is the guarantee for development, economic stability and everyday life; energy and development go hand in hand with environmental problems and the observance of parameters whose violation will lead to catastrophe. europe cannot face a lack of information on what is happening on the african continent in terms of economic development, living conditions, the protection of human rights, security policy, with the aim of eradicating terrorism. the death sentences handed out to european citizens in libya, the continuing kidnapping of technicians in nigeria, they cannot see the union as amorphous or soft! what has happened in somalia shows how little the european union is aware of the situation in somalia and how little europe knows about international jihadist movements. the union's task is to support legitimate governments, to help people achieve better living conditions, to defeat terrorism everywhere. i would also like to ask the german presidency, on behalf of our group, to take action against the spread of paedophilia and the use of computer networks and the media to deprive children of their dignity, their lives and their hope. we must defend the weakest, the abused and exploited children, their physical and mental integrity, and also help our society to grow in peace, and so we are calling for a new way forward which will lead europe to have common rules governing technology and communication, to the benefit of our citizens and our countries. mr president, we believe it is important to have you here with us often, so that out of the different responsibilities of each of you there may grow a europe which leads to better living conditions, greater certainty in international relations, greater development for the less fortunate countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, you are taking up the presidency at a very delicate time for europe, but it will help you to know that, as president poettering has rightly pointed out, you personally and your country represent the main achievement of the process of european integration, towards the reunification of our continent in the freedom of democracy after the divisions of the world wars and the cold war. despite this success, europe is broken and too many of its citizens have lost faith in integration. this situation must be reversed quickly! the programme you have presented seems to us to be effective and well thought out, but priority must be given to those dossiers on which it is possible to demonstrate in some way, quickly and effectively, with facts, that europe is better than non-europe. we would like to highlight three of them: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the following subjects: the balkans and the middle east, the fight against terrorism and energy. in particular, there is a special opportunity in the field of energy, linked to the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome. what better opportunity to go beyond words and to revive an institution which was introduced then and which probably could prove more useful today than then? a two-tiered euratom would make it possible to tackle at european level what cannot yet be done anywhere at national level, but on which europe cannot risk falling behind: i am thinking of research, of managing delicate phases such as enrichment and waste disposal. think about it, madam chancellor, and in the meantime, best of luck!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, after all this time, your speech was finally a high-profile one, and we share its content and the path it points out for the union in the coming months. the citizens of europe today are asking for solutions to their problems which the national states and the regions are unable to provide. that is why we need a union capable of acting on the basis of a grundnorm, i say in german, a fundamental rule, to face the great challenges we face: from globalization to counterterrorism, from immigration to peace, from energy freedom to the climate emergency, from unemployment to the african question. we need a constitution that enshrines europe's role, including a seat on the un security council! europe must also mark the victory of politics over bureaucracy, madam chancellor, and we appreciate your reference to the values of our european identity: the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is in this spirit that it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. i share his plan for the common market in the united states of america, the other face of the west, which is rooted in freedom.
i thank president merkel for her commitment and enthusiasm in relaunching the european project, and i hope that this momentum will be maintained over the next six months and taken as seriously by the forthcoming portuguese and slovenian presidencies. it is difficult not to share the priorities indicated (growth, employment, foreign policy) but, as i have stressed on other occasions and as my colleague mr de michelis has also reiterated this morning, in the face of any conceivable strategy of economic growth or diplomatic cooperation, there is, in my view, a sound policy of energy self-sufficiency if, as we have seen, a ship or a tree, if not the whims of a political leader, is enough to bring the economic activity of entire regions to its knees for hours. this policy is not limited to cooperation with our partners, but also includes a strategic plan aimed at the research and practical use, especially in the industrial sector, of clean and renewable sources in response to both energy and environmental challenges. the eu has a duty to its own citizens to resolve this issue and has the opportunity to set a good example for the common good to its international partners.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate you. in 2004, then commission president prodi went to great lengths to get libya into the euro-mediterranean process. today, on an official visit as president of the council to sofia, he is spending his time with words that look like crocodile tears coming down, flowing like crocodile tears! in fact, we should have taken a stand against this regime, this despot, long ago, long ago, other than protesting against the t-shirts of minister calderoli! we are facing an unprecedented act, if you do not take into account the stalinist trials against doctors, etc. a disgrace, an insult to the principles of international law and human rights! the story of these nurses and the palestinian doctor is a paradigmatic example of the arrogant violation of human rights by a state that borders the european union: we italians have it in front of us and we hear in our ears the blackmailing words that this satrap pronounces very often about the sufferings of african emigrants, against whom europe must change its record, we cannot be insulted and we cannot allow violations of this kind so heavy, so arrogant and unacceptable, against european citizens and in any case against anyone!
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this speech celebrates the end of a well-known discrimination against former non-inscrits and is also the first speech on reports submitted by the new group 'identity, tradition, sovereignty'. i take this opportunity to point out that at last several million european citizens are no longer represented by half-heartedness, and this should be a source of satisfaction for those who call themselves fully democratic and who perhaps, at least until the fall of the berlin wall, in several countries of the union were, perhaps still are, proud to share responsibilities, ideals and more, with the communist international. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are opposed to liberalization, even in the light of the many bad experiences in various countries which have liberalized themselves. we cannot therefore support the proposals of the good rapporteur jarzembowski on these points. we believe that the reciprocity clause is essential, otherwise liberalization will not correspond at all to the free competition which should benefit consumers. on the rights and duties of the passenger our ideas are much more in line with those of my colleague sterckx: we are in favour of extending the scope of the passenger rights regulation to national transport. i think, for example, of the need for this in my own country, especially since we believe that a passenger cannot be considered to be of a different category depending on the carrier he uses. the dignity and rights of passengers must be guaranteed by all services, whether private or public, operating in the territory of the union, and we therefore consider the temporary derogation provided for in amendment no 22 to be more than sufficient in this respect. although it is true that the definition of a person with reduced mobility is very broad and vague, so that it may cover several million passengers a day, it is absolutely acceptable that there should be adaptation of rolling stock and stations. we also need assistance on board trains, perhaps by offering free escort services, and so we support amendments nos 47 and 66. we are opposed to several amendments, and in particular we believe that it is not possible to introduce the obligation to have a separate compartment for bicycles and sports equipment in every train, and even more so without any further specification. we therefore take a negative view of amendments nos 26, 58, 59 and 69. finally, on the railway licence, the group agrees with the trend towards certification of train drivers, but we remain somewhat sceptical about the need to certify the on-board staff as well, as is the case with other means of transport.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the distinction between international transport and transport between member states and national transport dates back to 1956, to be precise, to article 70 of the treaty establishing the european coal and steel community, the first european transport regulation. it seems to me quite obvious that when the construction of the internal transport market began, cross-border transport should be entrusted with caution to the european institution, but it is equally obvious that later on the false distinction between international and internal transport was dropped for road transport, sea transport, air transport, internal transport and even, from 1 january this year, for rail freight transport. why, then, madam president-in-office, should this distinction continue to exist only for the last pre-modern enclave, that of passenger rail transport? why, mr vice-president of the commission, go to such great lengths to liberalise 5% of the rail passenger market by 2010, three years from now? why not let the beneficial effects of competition also help the remaining 95% of the railway market to regain that competitiveness vis-à-vis road and air without which we cannot overcome any of the problems we face? why should we allow only 5% of passengers to finally enjoy the obvious protections which apply to all consumers, particularly those with disabilities, and which we have already extended to all air passengers? does it not seem to you that ten years of transition for all, or even fifteen years for the new member states, is a sufficient period to allow even the most unstable of the national monopolies, which today defend their reserved internal market, to prepare themselves to face competition which cannot be destructive, because today the market is declining and only competition can help to expand a market for all. i mean, is it possible, gentlemen, that we are not finding the capacity to get out of a logic that was valid 50 years ago and that today honestly jeopardizes our whole strategy?
the debate is closed. it will be resumed at 9 p.m.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i am in favour of the third railway package. i was originally of the opinion that the state should never hand over the railway to private companies. but if the infrastructure remains in public hands and private companies are only able to transfer local, regional and crossborder transport services under very clear conditions, and in a way that is socially and environmentally compatible, then i think we must accept fair competition. however, if state monopolies were merely replaced by a few private monopolists, as is the case in some energy companies, then liberalisation would certainly not be effective. i would argue from my experience as a frequent rail user that the quality of the railway offer does not depend on the degree of privatisation but rather on the clear political will to give railway preference over road. the cost-effectiveness and attractiveness of the railway system as a whole are decisive, for example, also welcoming stations, well-coordinated timetables, reliability, comfort of the trains, etc. we have a positive example in the middle of europe: switzerland. the state does not shirk its responsibility there, even though 45% of the railways are not owned by the swiss federal railways. there are very clear guidelines and a political will on the part of those responsible. the railway is functioning and competitive with the road. a negative example is italy, where only large projects have been pursued and existing railway lines have been badly neglected for decades. perhaps these european impulses are now beginning to change the thinking in italy too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the third railway package is a fundamental step towards the objective of a liberalised market and a common policy to protect passengers' rights and obligations at european level. the jarzembowski report is certainly the central body of the third package and i fully agree with the rapporteur's approach: it opens up not only international but also national rail transport to competition, it also requires the principle of reciprocity to be respected and thus prevents undue advantages for companies from countries which are closed to competition. the sterckx report, on the other hand, deals with the rights and obligations of passengers: i would also like to say that i agree with the rapporteur's approach, which rightly calls for the regulation to be extended to all rail passengers, both national and international. international passenger traffic represents only 5% of rail traffic, so what sense would it make to adopt a regulation applicable to such a small percentage of consumers? another argument in favour of extending the scope of application is suggested by the legislation in force for the air transport sector, where no distinction is made between international and national traffic in terms of passenger obligations and rights. many member states will have difficulty in reconciling their present situation with the provisions of this regulation, and we therefore believe that the proposed measures should be implemented gradually and, above all, be guided by the criterion of feasibility: for example, passengers with reduced mobility will see the progressive removal of architectural barriers and obstacles in the event of major renovation works, the construction of new stations or the purchase of new trains and coaches. the companies will be responsible for passengers and their baggage, and there will be minimum rights to compensation in the event of delay throughout the european union.
traffic on european roads has tripled in the last 30 years and, despite cars being four times safer than in 1970, road accidents cause more than 40 000 deaths a year, with a direct and indirect cost of €180 billion, 2% of eu gdp. the ambitious targets set by the european union for 2010 to halve the number of road accident victims cannot be achieved without taking into account the fundamental nature of education; the report therefore urges states to further strengthen and disseminate information policies and road safety awareness campaigns among road users of all ages. parliament also called on the member states to step up their efforts to raise awareness of the need for more seat belts in all vehicles, including buses, and proposed that information campaigns be launched to combat fatigue at the wheel, that safe barriers be set up for motorcyclists and that common minimum standards be established for the examination and certification of driving school instructors. the report also proposes that the health and safety rules at the workplace should also apply to motor vehicles used for mobile workplaces.
i call the meeting to order. i 'm very happy to have been elected . i am not here to discuss the matter, but to discuss it. i think it is absolutely fundamental and highly symbolic that i open this sitting with a discussion on gender equality and equity. it must be said that this parliament has made considerable progress and i hope that we will continue to do so.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs anna záborská, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the integration of the gender dimension in the work of committees (2005/2149 (ini)) (a6-0478/2006).
you have congratulated me and i congratulate the few men in this chamber for this debate on gender equality because i believe their presence is essential to counteracting the discrimination that is still going on.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i sincerely wish you all the best on your first day as president. but there is still a long way to go in the field of women's rights, we have a long parliamentary record behind us, which is why we know how important it is to make effective and operational a genuine integration of the gender dimension in the work of committees. if we look at the reality, there are so many problems to solve and the numbers speak for themselves: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the rapporteur was also right to point out - and i thank her for her excellent work - that there is still no adequate culture to encourage women's participation in political life. let me give you an example. in italy there is no law on so-called "pink quotas" and i am not convinced that quotas are necessarily the best system. however, in italy, parties such as the one i belong to, which have freely chosen to include more women in the electoral rolls, have nevertheless seen an increase in the political representation of women in parliament, and this is a positive fact, it is an example of good practice to be exported, to be imposed, at community level. in conclusion, i expect all the community institutions, and in particular the german presidency, to pay renewed attention to women and to launch a genuine european family pact.
i'd like to thank each and every one of you for your congratulations. i think it is absolutely symbolic that we have followed the report on equal opportunities as the first presidency. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading by the committee on legal affairs on the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (roma ii) (9751/7/2006 c6-0317/2006 2003/0168 (cod)) (rapporteur: ms diana wallis) (a6-0481/2006).
president. - the debate is closed. the agenda shall include explanations of vote.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m.)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are voting on tomorrow and the debate this evening place the european parliament in that worldwide movement which is appealing to the united nations general assembly to allow the adoption of a resolution for a universal moratorium, which is one of the first steps towards the general abolition of the death penalty in the legal systems of all countries. we would like the council of ministers, as has been said, to make a real effort to achieve this. the presidency is very busy and we hope that this will remain one of the priorities of the semester. a similar commitment has been made by the council of europe and the european commission. however, from what mrs ferrero-waldner said, i do not think she was very convinced that the first step should be a moratorium. i would like to emphasize this point and ask mrs ferrero-waldner: "without this step, would abolition be any closer?" i think not. the european union could use the wide-ranging relations it enjoys in its neighbourhood policy, association agreements and strategic partnership in its international relations, and i believe that european political parties could also work in international fora to ensure that their organisations work on the accession countries. i believe that the aim is to ban the death penalty from the legal systems of all states, which would also help to ensure that the united nations enjoys the prestige of an institution which safeguards universally recognized rights.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed a statement and a note issued by the german presidency this morning. in this note, the text reads: 'the german presidency calls on the governments concerned to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty with immediate effect.' i read the note from the german presidency. that is exactly our position. i also thought i knew of a statement by president barroso in which he fully supported the italian initiative to put forward a proposal for a moratorium at the current un general assembly, which will certainly win out: in 1999 there was an absolute majority for a resolution which was not tabled. i do not understand, therefore, - or rather i understand all too well - how, in the face of the enthusiasm we are seeing around the world at this hour for an initiative which is our initiative - the initiative of the european parliament, the initiative of the chairmen of our groups, the initiative which was announced in strasbourg by graham watson and other colleagues in a very precise way - it is possible to hesitate, at a time when france is putting an incredible emphasis on abolition, by changing its constitution; at the same time as rwanda is doing so; the european union is not going to be able to do that. we have heard statements from all sides - from syria, from lebanon - supporting this position. i think that tomorrow the european parliament, as the council of europe has already done, will take the lead in this movement. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to remind you that 60 years ago there was an axis between rome and berlin. i was ten years old and i remember it well. today, thanks to the german presidency, the italian initiative and the very recent french initiatives, a new reality is emerging. i think it is historically significant that berlin and rome today, to some extent, are expressing themselves in a clear position, without hypocrisy and without fear of winning, because there are too many people here who are afraid of winning, not of losing.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'no one shall be sentenced to the death penalty or executed; no one shall be removed, expelled or extradited to a state where there is a serious risk that he or she will be subjected to the death penalty, torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.' this is what the charter of fundamental rights of the european union provides for and this is what makes me, and i believe, makes us proud to be part of the european union. it is the defence of human dignity, it is the understanding that no one can be master of another's life and that there must be no revenge but justice. and that should apply to all courts, including military courts. too many countries still have the death penalty and among them are large countries like china, but also the greatest military and democratic power, the united states of america, which has not yet been able to get out of its far west culture. i hope that the congress against the death penalty in paris, which we will be attending as a parliament, will be a further step, starting from the moratorium, towards the abolition of the death penalty in the world, together with poverty. i also hope that the people who will be marching in the streets of paris will be a warning to all those who, in europe too, are thinking of reintroducing the death penalty. it is the road that leads us anyway so that the un can fully approve the moratorium.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. the execution of saddam brought the debate on the death penalty back to the fore, a debate that is absolutely appropriate, although it should not be used for instrumental purposes and, above all, it should not be an argument to be raised in the alternative. this is first and foremost a battle of civilization and progress. we are not only faced with an indispensable guarantee for the individual, a demand for further strengthening of the sphere of inviolability of the individual, but we are faced with a historical and universal necessity, a point of arrival and global meeting for the civilization of the 21st century. it has been said, and i agree, that after the abolition of slavery in the last few centuries and the prohibition of torture, the right not to be killed as a result of a judicial measure must be another common denominator, a new and irreducible dimension of the human being that makes us all a community. today, this parliament is sending the first clear message in this direction.
mr president, i am pleased to speak because i come from tuscany, where the death penalty was abolished for the first time in history on 30 november 1786, and i am still moved to remember that in 1987, together with amnesty international and the movimento per la vita italiana, i obtained the commutation of the death penalty in the united states for paula cooper, a 16-year-old black girl who later came to thank me. i also like to recall that as an italian member of parliament i introduced and obtained the abolition of the death penalty by law in the military code of war, which is why i have given this matter a lot of thought. i interpret optimistically human history which, despite everything, is a tiring journey towards good, driven by the increasing emergence of a decisive value: the dignity of every human being. this dignity is so great that it is not to be welcomed and therefore determines the equality of all whatever the condition of human life. it is also indestructible: even the hands of a criminal cannot erase the traces on the face of the man who committed the crime. life and dignity are not at the disposal of anyone, not even individual states. this is the real reason why the death penalty should be abolished. all the other practical reasons, which i know well, can be objected to, but not this one. europe, which wants to build its identity not so much on competition and the market as on dignity and human rights, cannot remain silent. i don't want to talk about inconsistencies right now. the time will come when human dignity and the consequent right to life will extend their persuasive power also to other areas of human life, where today they are, unfortunately, obscured, even within our union, in the most emblematic areas of poverty and human marginalization, such as birth and death.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr liese has just said that yesterday in the committee on the environment we adopted a very important resolution which goes into all the details, as minister gabriel called them, so i will not quote them. we shall see in strasbourg how this resolution can be further improved in view of the spring summit. i should like to take the few seconds i have to welcome a point made by mr gabriel which i think is very appropriate: and that is that we are facing a historic turning point. i think that this year and next, 2007-2008, they will be able to say effectively whether we can make an acceleration and a leap in political quality on this great issue that is imposing itself on the attention of world public opinion. the situation is changing, not only because of the new data that we are getting from the scientists in paris, the panel, etc., but also in the international political debate: for example, across the atlantic, a different consciousness is developing or can be developing. so i think that while we are doing our part and being consistent in legislation - emissions trading, including aviation, reducing co2 for cars and all the other things that are in the works - we need to make a big leap in policy quality, by creating a strong alliance between the european institutions to present ourselves as strong as possible in international negotiations. we as a parliament should perhaps do our part better too - first of all, of course, the legislator's part - but we can support the negotiations of the commission and the council, perhaps by proposing a great global alliance of parliaments, to make the fight against climate warming a real priority, as citizens demand.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to combat climate change is very common in this house and certainly in the public consciousness. in the meantime, let me make a brief statement, which will be useful to underline the intellectual honesty we owe to citizens who are less educated in this field: i think that when we talk about fighting climate change, it is good to specify that we are referring only to that part of the influence that man and his activities have on the environment, a part which, as scientifically proven, is far less than the geophysical and astronomical determinants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree, of course, with the targets for abatement, as well as the efforts to boost renewable energy. all right, of course, even incentivising less polluting vehicles seems to be acceptable. but will it not end up like in italy, where the 2007 budget favours those who can buy new vehicles and instead condemns to immobility and heavy costs precisely the less well-off, who cannot afford to change vehicles? finally, ladies and gentlemen, although i am not a xenophobe, believe me, i ask again: does all our unilateral efforts on sustainability make sense when china and the asian economic tigers put into the atmosphere in one year as many climate-changing gases as the eu countries produce in ten years?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the more than 40 deaths caused by hurricane kyrill are a sad foreboding of what the future will bring. global warming and the associated climate upheavals are not an invention of environmental movements: the average temperature has risen by more than half a degree during the 20th century, and the cause is to be found in the emission of greenhouse gases produced by human activity. the european union is responsible for about 14% of these emissions, the highest per capita share in the world. that is why the fight against climate change, which requires the contribution of all countries, must be spearheaded by the most advanced nations. the eu must therefore continue to work in the spirit of kyoto, which has led to a focus on technological innovation. however, in recent years there have been setbacks, particularly in the energy sector, and the commission's recent proposals have fallen short of expectations. although commissioner dimas himself called for a 30% cut in emissions from 1990 levels, a 20% cut was agreed and a strategy on transport, alternative energy and green hydrogen technology was lacking. not to mention the nuclear ambiguity.... (the president interrupts the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken today for their very positive speeches, which show how fully aware the problem of climate change is among the members of the european parliament and, of course, this is also a reflection of public opinion which has become very aware. i would like to thank the german presidency and in particular mr sigmar gabriel for the cooperation we have had, for the way he has spoken and defended environmental issues and i hope that the german presidency will be fully effective and will respond to the expectations of european citizens and to the views expressed tonight. climate change is a global challenge and the european union's leadership is crucial in addressing it. today's debate has given us the opportunity to stress the importance of the decisions which are to be taken in the european union in the coming days and weeks: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we must ensure the credibility of the european union in its global leadership role in tackling climate change and we must send the strongest possible message to our partners in both the developed and developing world. we must also stress the importance of the decisions to be taken in the next few years on the international climate change regime and i will perhaps refer to this later to ensure that even more efforts are made across the globe after the first commitment period under the kyoto protocol ends in 2012. the scientific and economic arguments for taking ambitious, global action to tackle climate change are clear and compelling. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: this is precisely what the commission is seeking to do with the climate and energy package. the next few years will be crucial in shaping a global framework to ensure that irreversible and potentially catastrophic climate change is avoided. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. it is of great importance that you support the european union's strong commitment to decisive action, both internally and internationally. i should like to answer some of the observations that were made tonight. firstly, concerning targets, i must repeat that 15 months ago we were not discussing targets. the word "target" was not mentioned. in the european council conclusions, the council mentioned exploring reduction pathways in the range of 15 to 30% with developed countries. it did not occur to anyone to have a unilateral commitment for the european union. somebody mentioned that perhaps there's some confusion. i have to make it clear that we have a target, which is 30%, and this is the mandate we are asking the european council to give to the commission to negotiate with other developed countries. however, irrespective of this agreement and until such an agreement is reached, we have a unilateral commitment to reduce by 20% the reductions in the european union. to underline the magnitude of this commitment, i would point out that it is more than twice our total obligation. i heard that there is not enough ambition and that we have not exercised leadership by setting this target. no other country in the world is so ambitious not even california. governor schwarzenegger has received much praise. i have been asked why we do not have a similar target to that of governor schwarzenegger a 25% target for 2021, but using 2006 as a basis. therefore, if you do your calculations, his ambition is less than half of our 20% reduction. therefore, let me make it clear that we are ambitious, we have to exercise leadership in the world, we have to practice what we preach and our target is really ambitious. of course, in order to achieve what science tells us, to limit the average temperature increase on the planet to 2 degrees celsius, we need a 50% reduction by all the countries in the world by 2050. that goes for the developed countries and the developing countries a 60-80% reduction by the developed countries and a 30% reduction by 2020. someone mentioned flexibility: these targets of 20% and 30% are flexible. they are not for all the countries in the european union, but they will be adjusted according to the burden-sharing agreement that we had a few years ago regarding the achievement of our total target. it should be a similar system. nairobi was mentioned. of course, montreal was different from nairobi. in montreal we had a big achievement in the montreal action plan. according to this plan in nairobi we had certain priorities which were achieved. mrs doyle was right when she said they were not ambitious, but it was a step - a bigger or smaller step, but still a step - and the european union achieved all the priorities it had set, especially in terms of trying to help the least developed countries to get some of the investments with the usual cut-off and flexible mechanisms. mr wijkman said that we were not ambitious because we do not have a partnership with china or that we have a partnership that we do not finance. the truth is that we have a european union-china partnership and a european union-india initiative, and both have specific objectives which will be financed by european union funds and funds from various member states of the european union. of course they are very important, because, as you said, after 2020 china, india and the other fast developing countries will emit more than all the oecd countries. it is therefore absolutely necessary to bring them on board so that we can fight climate change together, but according to the common but differentiated principle of the united nations convention. i said how important it is to have the participation of china and india and the other fast developing countries. however, it is more important to have the developed countries. our first objective should be to consider how to bring on board developed countries, like the united states, which emits 25% of the world's emissions and has not ratified kyoto. public opinion in the united states is changing and we are encouraged by the signals we are getting there. however, more work is necessary. in particular, we must strengthen our emissions trading system, because a market-based instrument like this could be the best way to bring the united states on board. some states in the usa already have an emissions trading system. in the northeast there is an emissions trading system regarding power generation. california and some other western states will be introducing them, and we will cooperate with them in order to have a similar system in order to link the systems together. so the global emissions trading system can be born from the bottom up. in order to do that we need a strong emissions trading system in the european union, otherwise we cannot argue with them. that's why we need to have national allocation plans that really create scarcity in the market. if i had accepted all the proposed national allocation plans from the member states, the emissions trading system would have collapsed. you, the members of the european parliament, with whom we had a lot of discussions about the emissions trading system, should help to persuade those member states which have reservations about the national allocation plans. i am going to do my job and i shall assess the national allocation plans as is necessary in order to fight climate change. it is very important to determine what the basic elements are for a future regime. we have to set goals, the means by which we are going to achieve these goals and establish who will be participating in achieving these targets. i spoke about the participants both developed and developing countries. i must now mention the targets: 2°c is the target. it is essential to keep the commitment made by the european union. the means are: firstly, the use of the market a global emissions trading system is necessary? secondly, we need research, technology, development of technology and deployment of technology, as minister gabriel mentioned. therefore we need to make it financially interesting for the economic partners to deploy new technologies. we also need to transfer technology to developing countries and in order to do that we need finance, because without finance it will not be possible. we have the kyoto flexible mechanism the cdms, the joint implementation but we also need other funds. i am grateful to minister gabriel, because when i announced the adoption by the european union of the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, he immediately came forward with a significant contribution from germany. italy followed, and i hope other countries will do so, because this money is necessary in order to transfer technology to developing countries to enable those countries to be energy efficient and to make efforts in order to fight climate change. today i heard a lot about biofuels and second-generation biofuels. i said that today the commission adopted a very important piece of legislation. however, everybody looked at the cars and not at this piece of legislation. but it is very important! i would say that we would save more carbon dioxide with this directive than with the other one, without saying that cars are not important - they are very important, especially for the future. having a new car fleet in the european union is important for fighting climate change. today's adoption by the commission of the fuel quality directive is encouraging sustainable fuels for transport, biofuels, and especially encouraging second-generation biofuels, which are friendly to the environment. on cars, my proposal still stands. my proposal is there, as it was 15 days ago. i am very happy that today the president said that next week we shall be discussing it in the college. we need clean, competitive, affordable cars that will contribute to the fight against climate change. we must protect consumers, workers, the public at large and, of course, fight climate change, protect our planet and protect our countries. finally, on davos, it was very interesting because although there were very important issues to be discussed iraq, the middle east and doha a poll revealed that a majority of 57 percent of the participants who were asked said that the number one issue the world faces today is climate change, which means that the politicians who reflect public opinion have now also had responses from business leaders. the business leaders have joined politicians and public opinion and showed their determination to fight climate change. that is why i ask for your help in adopting the resolution, which would be very helpful for carrying on our proposals.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i shall try to deal with just a few points. many colleagues have said: we have been talking about climate change for many years, but nothing is actually happening. i would ask that we do not underestimate what the commission has put forward in recent weeks and do not make it smaller than it is. i believe that the commission has for the first time developed a common strategy for securing energy supplies and protecting the climate. i would point out that in the past we have generally discussed both separately. we have a common strategy! and what were the main proposals that you criticised earlier? the first package dealt with the question of energy efficiency. not only is the european union able to save billions of euros by 2020100 in energy efficiency improvements, which we urgently need for consumers, for investment in research and development and for many other issues on our agenda. the 20% increase in energy efficiency means the avoidance of 780 million tonnes of co2. this is twice what we have tried to save in europe under the kyoto protocol. energy efficiency is often not as well suited to large-scale ideological and political discussions as is nuclear energy. energy efficiency - these are often many small issues that need to be controlled, monitored and pushed back again and again. but it offers the greatest opportunities, both for the security of energy supply and for climate protection. i think the commission's proposals in this respect are an excellent package. i would be glad if, in addition to all the big headings, we could at least give as much thought to the question of how we can actually implement the many individual programmes contained in this package in community policy as well as in the policies of the member states. secondly, of course, 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre in the automotive industry are part of the issue of greater energy efficiency. but to your question earlier, how do we make sure that the biofuel ratio actually counts in reality? we are all in favour of moving the european petroleum industry from the current 5.75% of biofuels to be blended to a much higher proportion. the commission proposes 10%, and some member states may even consider going beyond that. i think that 12.5% or 15% is not unattainable and that must be effectively ensured so that no mineral oil is placed on the market and at petrol stations in the european union that does not contain a certain proportion of biofuels. i believe that this is absolutely necessary if we are to become more independent of oil and gas imports in this area, to become more independent of international price increases and to make the most important contribution to the long-term reduction of co2 emissions from fuel consumption. the second major area is renewable energy. let us not pretend that it is a given in the european union that all member states will accept a common target - as proposed by the commission - of 20% of primary energy consumption in europe to be renewable energy. it's a long way to go. i would ask the european parliament to help us and the commission to make this objective a major goal at the spring summit of heads of state or government. i think it is one of the most important goals we have to achieve. unfortunately, mrs grossetête, who asked me to give her an answer on nuclear energy, is no longer in the chamber. perhaps you could give her the answer: if nuclear energy accounts for 15% of final energy consumption in europe, then it does not make much sense to concentrate on just that 15%. if we did that, 85% of the workforce would be unemployed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. i suspect that won't be the case any time soon. that is why the focus on renewable energy, as proposed by the commission, is the absolutely right way forward. of course, we will have to break this down into burden sharing, whereby each country in europe has to take a certain share and thus reach the 20% of primary energy consumption in 2020. let me close by mentioning two areas where we are far from having a real breakthrough. many of you have said that we need to make sure that we get emerging countries like china, india, brazil -- the big emitters of the future -- to get on board with at least voluntary, better yet binding commitments to reduce co2. that's right! but without the technological solutions we can offer these countries for their growth, they will not get on board! it is absolutely irrelevant whether the european union decides to go for 30, 20, 40 or 10%, the only chance of getting these countries on board is to make them offers for the use of technologies for their energy supply that guarantee their growth and at the same time do not damage the climate in the way that this used to happen in the industrial countries. we're a long way from that. despite the good initiative of the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, despite the willingness to transfer technology through cdm projects under the umbrella of the kyoto protocol, the offer is far from sufficient. i therefore recommend that you take part in the relevant international negotiations from time to time to see how widely the european union and the developing countries differ in their understanding of the situation. when we talk about climate change, our partners in the developing world usually interpret this as the old colonialists coming to impede their economic development. if we go to brazil, and we talk about how we can protect the rainforests -- also to not put as much co2 into the atmosphere -- or at least to maintain the natural absorption capacity of co2 in the forests -- then we get the answer from the official side: you still haven't gotten used to the fact that these are our rainforests. we are the ones who decide this, not the old colonial states of europe who want to make rules for us again. we are still that far from a common understanding of climate change, and it is very difficult to get closer to it. some colleagues have said that we must make concessions. i think they meant the european people's renunciation of wealth and so on. i don't think that's the case. and yet, we must be willing to give back to the industrialized countries some of the advantages we have had over our former colonies in the last few hundred years, some of the wealth we have accumulated on the basis of the poverty of the former colonial countries, in order to give them answers on how to advance their economic and social development without destroying the climate. that's the renunciation we're talking about. we are not renouncing our wealth, but we are renouncing the desire to take all the wealth we have accumulated in europe and other industrialized countries for ourselves. we will need to allocate some of this wealth to finance technology development and transfer as well as the necessary adaptation to climate change that is already taking place. this is the second demand of the developing countries to the industrialized countries. before they're willing to talk to us about limiting their carbon emissions as part of their growth, they want to see that we're willing to repair the damage that's already been done by climate change in these states and help them adapt to climate change. we now have a fund that is to be 300 million euros by 2012 - maybe a little bit more - to finance adaptation measures worldwide. who in this room actually believes that 300 million euros is really enough for global climate change adaptation? in my country, this is about the size of the budget of two mediumsized cities. it's not enough! these are the two questions that are being asked of us. they do not ask us: are you prepared to reduce by 20%, 30% or 40% in europe? they ask us: what are you doing to enable real technology transfers to our countries and thus achieve growth and climate protection at the same time? and second, what are you doing to finance the climate change adaptation measures that you are responsible for in our countries? these are the answers we need to give if we want to bring china, brazil, india -- the big emitters of the future -- on board. like commissioner dimas, i believe that america will join a treaty if it works. whether it's called kyoto or something else, we'll see. but the united states will participate in a functioning market, a functioning emissions trading system, a functioning climate change. as long as we do not provide answers to these questions, the united states simply cannot - under any government - participate in it with binding commitments. a second comment on the austrian colleague who said: 'good roar, lion!' or on mrs harms who said: 'enough of words, let me see action'. i think that the words have not changed enough, and if you need proof of that, look here in the chamber or at my house in the german bundestag. if we are convinced that climate protection is indeed a human challenge, why are we not succeeding in getting colleagues in national parliaments who are committed to health reform, the labour market, foreign policy and peace policy in parliamentary debates to also commit themselves to climate protection? why is it that we cannot keep the members who were in the chamber earlier for the vote here, to participate in the debate, to be annoyed by what the commission or the council says, to make their own proposals, to approve or reject, to criticise or to contribute to the debate? we have not yet reached the political public to the extent that we should, otherwise there would be a unified view of the different positions in the individual member states. let us be a little careful about saying that enough has been said. i think we have a long way to go before we convince those we need in the end to win majorities even for difficult decisions. it is not enough for environmental policy experts to be convinced; there are others, including those in our member states. i'm a little reluctant to tell other people what they have to do. we have enough to deal with in my home country, and i'm not the only one, i guess.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the february partsession. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
as the german presidency has rightly pointed out, a sound energy and environmental policy is no longer a matter of delay if we are to ensure that our citizens and the eu enjoy healthy and sustainable development over time. i therefore agree with my colleagues that this issue should be given the highest priority in the work of the coming months. it seems paradoxical, but precisely on the fiftieth anniversary of the european project, and at a time of political deadlock due to the failure of the constitution, the difficulties of enlargement and the alienation of part of the european population, there is an opportunity, with far more appropriate economic, technological and political instruments, to relaunch the process with concrete proposals, reviving and adapting to today's needs the idea that was at the origin of the european process: the pooling of efforts and intentions to achieve adequate energy independence and sustainability. as was the case 50 years ago, economic development will depend on it, as will the health of our citizens and the environment in which we live. today, moreover, the european union's role on the global stage has added to its potential to influence the political stability of the planet and to set an example for those young economies which, in the midst of economic development, are still unaware of the consequences of this.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question by mr pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and mr jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, to the council on the new pnr and swift agreement (o-0131/2006 - b6-0001/2007) and the oral question by mr pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and mr jean-marie cavada, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, to the council on the new pnr and swift agreement (o-0132/2006 - b6-0002/2007).
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is, of course, quite another thing to move from the central challenges of energy or climate protection to a very important topic which has already been discussed by you in the european parliament and by the european union as a whole in the past - and not just once, but repeatedly - the issue of passenger data. as we all know, after the terrorist attacks of 11 september 2001, the united states enacted legislation requiring airlines operating flights to and from the united states to grant the us authorities electronic access to data from their automated reservation and check-in systems, the so-called passenger name records. if they don't, the us will threaten to strip the airlines of their landing rights. i would like to recall briefly the framework conditions. in may 2006, the european court of justice annulled the council decision on the agreement between the european community and the united states on the transfer of passenger data to the united states and the commission decision on the adequacy of data protection following an action brought by the european parliament. in essence, the european court of justice has justified its decision by the lack of competence of the european community to conclude such an agreement, since it does not fall within the scope of the first pillar. the commission did not comment on the substantive question of whether the level of data protection is adequate. as you know, the negotiations with the united states on a successor agreement were very difficult, but they were finally concluded with an interim agreement, which is now based on the third pillar and will last until 31 july this year. it is based on the us privacy commitment, which was already the basis of the previous agreement between the european community and the united states. the commission presented to the council at the beginning of january 2007 a recommendation to authorise the opening of negotiations on a new passenger name record agreement with the united states of america to replace the current interim agreement. the eu negotiating mandate for the presidency of the council, with the support of the commission, was discussed today in the coreper. it is expected that the council will take a decision on this in february 2007 and will set out negotiating directives. it is expected that the negotiations on a new passenger name record agreement will be extremely difficult, as the united states shows no interest in intensifying data protection. rather, they are seen as departing from the continuity of their data protection obligations. however, in the interest of the european union, the conclusion of an agreement is essential for the level of data protection to be ensured. in the absence of an agreement, there would be great pressure on airlines to continue to provide passenger data in order not to risk the withdrawal of landing rights in the usa. the german presidency, with the support of the commission, will work towards a legally secure and data protection-friendly regime that fully takes into account the interests of passengers and airlines and maintains a high level of security. i would also like to emphasize that the european parliament's positions in the relevant resolutions of september last year on data protection, the fight against terrorism and the protection of human rights are also taken into account. i shall also come to the oral questions by mr berès and mr cavada on the swift issue. the council thanks the members for their interest in this swift dossier. he has already had several opportunities to answer questions from members on this subject. i would like to refer to my own comments on the replies given in this context. in december 2006, the council informed meps that the issues raised by them required careful consideration, which is still ongoing in the council. this examination is not yet completed. i shall endeavour to answer the various questions put by the members for the council, all the aspects which i can deal with here being still under consideration in the council. the finnish minister for european affairs, in a speech to the plenary in july 2006 as president of the council at the time, stated that the council was not currently in a position to confirm press reports of an exchange of information between swift and the us authorities. the minister reminded that it was up to the national authorities to establish what had actually happened. she also stated that the european union was ready to act now and in the future should incidents prove to require legislation at european level. as mentioned above, the council and the commission are currently examining all aspects and issues relevant to this dossier, taking also into account the findings of the data protection working party. the presidency will consider how to organise the work of the council in this area, taking into account the results of the current studies. i can tell you, however, that no new group has been set up for this purpose. as the examination is still ongoing, the council is not at this stage in a position to answer the question whether the matters will have consequences with regard to regulation no 1781 of 15 november 2006 on the transmission of information on the principal in the case of transfers of funds. the council is not aware that the commission is considering a proposal to amend this regulation. we shall certainly find out when the commission makes its statement. the treaty gives the commission the task of monitoring the implementation of community legislation in the eu member states and of taking appropriate action if a member state has failed to fulfil its obligations under ec law. the automated targeting system has also been mentioned. this us system concerns the transport of goods and passengers both within the united states and to and from the united states. the question of whether data collected by swift is fed into this system is one of the issues that are still being examined. in its statement that an international framework for the fight against terrorism was already in place, the privacy group referred to the working party on combating money laundering and terrorist financing and its recommendations. the council considers that good work is being done in this area, but the recommendations of this group are aimed at banks and financial institutions. in this context, i would point out to the council that swift cannot be considered a financial institution within the meaning of this working party. therefore, the fatf framework is not directly applicable. however, it may take account of specific aspects. the council's declaration on the presidency.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i shall begin by addressing pnr. as you all know, the temporary agreement concluded in october with the united states will expire by the end of july this year, in a few months’ time. there is therefore the need to negotiate a very solid and stable legal framework which will enable the exchange of pnr data with the united states with full respect of data protection and privacy rights. as the presidency of the council just said, the commission has recommended to the council that it authorise the presidency, assisted by the commission, to open negotiations on the basis of a set of negotiation directives. i am confident that these recommendations will be examined very soon. i personally strongly hope that by mid-february we will get a negotiating mandate to open this very difficult exercise. the commission is recommending to the council to strive for full respect of fundamental rights, notably the right to privacy. i have said on a number of occasions that the right to privacy is for me non-negotiable. it has to be respected, fully and completely. legal certainty is also an important element for air-carriers. it must be taken into account, as it has been from the very beginning. as i have already stressed in this parliament several times, the commission is committed to continuing to give due consideration to privacy on the one hand and legal security on the other, as they form key principles of this file, without forgetting the importance of preventing and fighting terrorism and related transnational crimes. the negotiations for a new agreement with the united states on pnr data are a key priority for the commission, and for me personally, and i understand from what the presidency of the council just said that it shares this view. i warmly welcome the close cooperation between the commission and the council presidency, which is crucial if we want to succeed, if we want to speak with one voice. on my side, of course, as usual, i will keep parliament informed as this work progresses. you know very well that, as it was in the past, for me it will be a political commitment, though this document – for example, the negotiating recommendations – once approved will be classified as eu-restricted. the negotiations will present a real challenge for europe. it will require imagination; it will require a lot of common effort from all the eu institutions and from the united states as well in order to reach a very robust, solid solution. to conclude, i would like to see, for example, this parliament, together with the united states congress – following the political phases of this very difficult exercise – making, perhaps for the first time, a joint political commitment which would be particularly useful for the ongoing negotiations. however, it is up to you to decide. mi riferisco ora, onorevoli deputati, alla questione swift, anch'essa affrontata dalla presidenza. voi ricorderete che poche settimane fa, prima delle vacanze natalizie, ho informato la commissione libe che il caso swift deve essere affrontato in una prospettiva europea e vi avevo detto, in quella occasione, che avremmo avviato un dialogo esplorativo con le autorità americane per affrontare sia la questione generale della protezione dei dati, sia le questioni specifiche sollevate dall'uso dei dati swift da parte del ministero del tesoro degli stati uniti. voi probabilmente sapete che queste discussioni informali, ma importanti, sono già iniziate. io sono a favore di una soluzione europea per affrontare questo caso, una soluzione europea che dovrebbe, a mio avviso, includere regole chiare e garanzie precise, che il ministero del tesoro americano dovrebbe garantire e inserire nei documenti. in altri termini, i due punti in equilibrio sono, come al solito, protezione legale per i dati personali che sono trasferiti, da un lato, e certezza giuridica per tutti i soggetti interessati, e, mi permetto di dire, certezza giuridica anche per le banche e, come la presidenza ha ben sottolineato, swift non è una banca. e' chiaro allora che quando parlo di garanzie da parte delle autorità americane, io intendo specificare in quali circostanze, per quale obiettivo e da parte di chi quei dati possono essere conosciuti e utilizzati. dico subito che la limitazione dell'obiettivo alle sole indagini per fatti di terrorismo, e quindi per la prevenzione del finanziamento del terrorismo, deve essere chiara e precisa, in modo da evitare il rischio, anche indiretto, che dati del genere possano essere utilizzati abusivamente, ad esempio per spionaggio economico. e' chiaro inoltre che appare necessaria un'ulteriore limitazione, e cioè quella di collegare l'uso di quei dati alla ricerca su persone specifiche che sono sospettate di attività di terrorismo. in altri termini, non una generica azione di trasferimento dei dati indipendentemente da un'individuazione di sospetti che meritano ulteriori approfondimenti. siete al corrente della lettera che ho scritto nel novembre scorso a tutti gli stati membri per chiedere informazioni sulle condizioni alle quali le loro banche utilizzano dati personali attraverso swift. soltanto sette stati membri hanno finora risposto all'invito a fornire chiarimenti. questo è un fatto non piacevole e io ovviamente chiederò ragione in alcuni casi: nel caso specifico dell'italia ad esempio, è stata chiesta una proroga per dare una risposta. in altri casi, semplicemente non vi è stata alcuna risposta. dalle sette risposte che ci sono invece pervenute – sebbene non se ne possano trarre conclusioni generali perché è troppo esiguo il numero degli stati che hanno risposto – emerge che le banche utilizzano normalmente i dati personali per il solo obiettivo di eseguire ordini di pagamento e che esse non sono state informate, in quei casi, del fatto che dati personali vengono trasferiti al ministero del tesoro degli stati uniti da swift. quindi la risposta generale fornita è semplicemente "noi non siamo a conoscenza del fatto che qualcuno, cioè swift, trasmette dati dopo averli ricevuti da noi". e' emerso, invece – ma questo lo sapevate già – che in molti casi le banche centrali erano informate proprio dal ministero del tesoro statunitense del trasferimento da swift europa a swift stati uniti e da swift stati uniti al ministero del tesoro statunitense. voi sapete che sono in corso delle azioni e delle ulteriori indagini da parte delle autorità nazionali di protezione dei dati, intese a far luce sulla questione e capire se oltre al caso belga, che è ormai noto, vi sono altri casi specifici in cui le autorità nazionali di protezione dati possono aprire un fascicolo e quindi una procedura. e' evidente che, appena avrò informazioni al riguardo, ve le comunicherò come ho fatto in passato. c'è una domanda specifica che riguarda la possibilità di applicare ai dati swift il sistema denominato automated targeting system (sistema di individuazione personale). sulla base delle spiegazioni tecniche fornitemi, risulterebbe impossibile o altamente improbabile che il sistema in oggetto sia stato utilizzato per trattare i dati swift, per la semplice ragione che esso è inserito nel department of homeland security relativo alla protezione dei confini e quindi al movimento delle persone passeggeri. non a caso il parlamento europeo aveva posto una questione sull'applicazione di tale meccanismo ai dati pnr. i dati swift sono in un settore totalmente diverso perché ricadono nella sfera di applicazione di una diversa amministrazione, che è quella del tesoro. nell'interrogazione presentata si chiede altresì se la commissione è al corrente di altri esempi di autorità americane che richiedono dati da soggetti privati in questo settore. io non ne sono al corrente e quindi non posso rispondere a questa domanda. e' indubbio tuttavia che, se la lotta al finanziamento del terrorismo è uno strumento indispensabile per prevenire il terrorismo, non è possibile che tale lotta pregiudichi o riduca un diritto fondamentale, come la protezione dei dati finanziari personali dei clienti. come sapete, una delle violazione riscontrate dalle autorità belghe e dal comitato europeo dei garanti della privacy è proprio la mancata informazione preventiva ai clienti, il che coincide con quanto hanno detto le banche, anche loro non informate di questo movimento. in conclusione, presidente, onorevoli deputati, credo che la necessità di lavorare ad uno strumento europeo risponda a due motivazioni. in primo luogo, non possiamo ridurre o mortificare la nostra collaborazione euroatlantica in materia di lotta al terrorismo: sarebbe un errore grave che ritengo l'unione europea debba evitare. in secondo luogo, dobbiamo anche ricordare ai nostri amici americani che il rispetto scrupoloso dei diritti fondamentali, come la protezione dei dati personali, è nell'interesse comune. se noi riusciremo, in virtù di uno strumento europeo, analogamente a quanto cerchiamo di fare con il pnr – anche se le due materie sono molto diverse, ma il principio è lo stesso – a trovare una soluzione europea che impedisca differenze di trattamento tra stato e stato dell'unione europea verso gli stati uniti, credo che sarà possibile rafforzare il potere negoziale dell'unione europea, dimostrando nel contempo che il nostro obiettivo è rafforzare il legame euroatlantico e non indebolirlo.
author. mr president, there is an expression in french which describes the surreal embarrassment of an institution when it is faced with an unexpected situation, it is said that it behaves "like a hen that has found a revolver". and frankly, without wanting to underestimate you, mr. gloser, the least we can say is that your statement is dramatically disappointing on this case. i therefore feel entitled to remind you that you are mandated to defend european sovereignty, an act of which i have not seen much trace so far. so we are, as you can imagine, disappointed and, above all, worried. i will first talk about pnr data. in a few months, as we know, as you said, mr frattini reminded us, the interim agreement on air passenger data will expire. we have no clear information on how it works. i would also like to point out that although the previous agreement was annulled by the court, it was based on an assessment of the adequacy of data protection in the united states. on the other hand, this is not the case with the agreement in force, even though this assessment is required by the protocol to the council of europe convention 108, which is binding on the member states and therefore directly, or at any rate indirectly, on the european institutions. the agreement is based on a dubious basis and has not been properly implemented to date, since the data transmission system, which should have been activated since 2004, the "push" system, has not yet been activated, despite the announcements made, especially last september. i would like to ask a few questions publicly, in the spirit of cooperation. firstly, i wonder whether the commission should not have put more pressure on the airlines and the electronic booking centres under its supervision to activate the push system. secondly, i wonder whether we should not have asked air passengers for effective information on the use of their personal data for security purposes, in the same way as information campaigns have been carried out on rights in the event of flight delays, cancellations, for example. we are waiting for the commission and, above all, the american authorities to clarify a number of points. i'll take two. firstly, we do not understand that in order to fight terrorism and organised crime, it is necessary to use all the 34 data that are listed in the pnr and not just the 19 data that parliament and the data protection authorities have considered sufficient for this purpose. secondly, how can we explain the fact that european citizens and passengers can be classified as dangerous without their knowledge, for years, without any reciprocity and without any demands being made? i now come to the swift system. the second issue is even more sensitive and concerns access by the us authorities to data on financial transfers. my colleagues have just raised a number of points. so i'll just give the impression of the committee on civil liberties. what is at stake is the protection of the fundamental rights of our citizens and the credibility of our partnership with the united states. in fact, it is hard to understand why a certain degree of reciprocity has not been offered to start negotiations with a partner, even if it is friendly. will we ever do the same with another partner east of our borders, namely russia? that is where i wanted to say that european sovereignty is not respected. i have therefore taken the initiative, in agreement with the political groups, of inviting the relevant committees of the united states congress and i am awaiting their response. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) i understand very well that the timing of a parliament is very important, and as i trust my colleagues to say the rest, i will stick to that. i have said most of what i wanted to say. i honestly thought i had five minutes.
i apologize to my colleague, but unfortunately, in the organization of our parliamentary work, the overall respect of time becomes a constraint in order to proceed, especially when it comes to the "minitorna", with therefore restricted time.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this wide-ranging legal and political debate, which, as the chairman of the libe committee rightly pointed out, concerns a fundamental question such as that of european sovereignty, cannot, however, ignore a fact which has not been provided, namely the statements made by the highest us authorities, and which i do not think has been disputed but which it is good to remember. the swift system, which we are analysing in its relations with european law, has certainly had the merit of putting an end to some very serious terrorist initiatives, of helping to discover or identify the perpetrators of the london bombings of july 2005 and, at the very least, of helping to capture important figures, such as the terrorist hambali, who is believed to have been the mastermind of the bali bombings of october 2002. of course, it must also be said that the publicity of this procedure has probably caused many terrorists to give up using such tools. it is undeniable, however, that swift, faced with a contract between european and american law, merely negotiated with the us treasury department on data protection mechanisms without seeking further guarantees. this is a problem which arises, as is the question of the role and responsibilities of the european central bank: the commission, which was informed of the matter from the outset, was the protagonist of this instrument, the transparency of which i shall not dwell on, and, before the libe committee, through president trichet, it entrenched itself behind the confidentiality agreement between the ten banks, also claiming that it could not give its blessing to swift because it was not its competence. so we ask ourselves: what are the ecb's powers if it has no powers in a case like this? this is a very important aspect and i think we need to go back to the ecb and its transparency.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just received news of the murder of women, children, workers seeking employment and civilians in baghdad. by whom? by a gang of criminals, highly organized, of whom we know nothing. some of the international community speaks of insurgents, but these are criminals who are also protected by the authorities. the first iraqi administrator, paul bremer, said that first there would be a moratorium on the death penalty and then recognition of the international criminal court. but today iraq does not recognize the international criminal court and there is no legal possibility to prosecute these gangs of murderers. i would not like iraq today to be a state that protects this reality instead of fighting it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 18 february 2007 albania will be called to the polls for the administrative elections, which had already been postponed because of the risk of voter fraud. in fact, from the reports from albania by our comrades in the radical party of nonviolence and the mjaft association, these risks still exist today and the violation of the standards of the council of europe and the osce is practically certain. i hope that the house will be able to express its views on this matter and that in any event the presidency of parliament will be able to formally express its concern. we as the european union should certainly do more to ensure not only a purely formal control of the voting process but a real and strict monitoring of the whole pre-election phase and the preparation of the electoral conditions and then the conduct of the elections themselves. we must stop being a mere formality: the future of our europe is also at stake.
it may be useful to mention the problems arising from the different language versions when the house votes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the written declaration (article 142)
the agenda calls for the report by mrs věra flasarová, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on discrimination against young women and girls in the field of education (2006/2135 (ini)) (a6-0416/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr nirj deva, on behalf of the committee on development, on eu relations with the pacific islands: a strategy for a stronger partnership (2006/2204 (ini)) (a6-0325/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr stavros arnaoutakis, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of gabon (com (2006) 0454 - c6-0303/2006 - 2006/0156 (cns)) (a6-0477/2006).
mr fraga estévez, i share your view and i will convey to the presidency your concern about the discrimination between subjects. perhaps a principle of rotation is more appropriate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report by mrs danutė budreikaitė, on behalf of the committee on development, on mainstreaming sustainability into development cooperation policies (2006/2246 (ini)) (a6-0474/2006).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this legislative proposal on the statute for a european private company is very important. it is essential not only to remove barriers to trade but also to develop the factor of production at community level. to this end, it is undoubtedly necessary to create unitary legal entities to overcome the current legal uncertainty. it should not be forgotten, however, that the reform of company law, in addition to the objective of market transparency and the protection of savers, will have a direct impact on the future of the european social model. if it is a legitimate objective to allow full mobility for companies to take advantage of the benefits of the single market, this must be done by identifying the rights of workers who have the same qualities of transnationality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. this is a significant correction for a more attentive attention to the aspects inherent in that strengthening of social europe, which must have the participation of workers as one of its fundamental pillars. we therefore support this important proposal and thank mr lehne for his work, warning the commission that, while it is a legitimate aim to allow full mobility for businesses to take advantage of the benefits of the single market, this must be done without market considerations being at the expense of social equity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate mr varela suanzes-carpegna and thank him for his question, which has given us the opportunity to deal with this subject. i have been a rapporteur in this parliament on the reform of procurement, supplies and services, in this case directives 17 and 18. although time is very short, i think it is worth remembering the terms of the problem. in directive 18, the general procurement directive, as i heard from some of the speeches this morning, parliament has given great consideration to environmental problems, the modernised system of electronic procurement, the social sector, the question of thresholds and i believe that we have legislation which is certainly exceptional, but which in any case does not concern the subject of this morning's debate. the problem is entirely different: the commission is currently reviewing an international negotiation which puts the eu countries and therefore eu companies at a disadvantage compared to others. what's the matter? in 1994 and in subsequent years, a number of other types of international activities were envisaged by means of plurilateral agreements. the united states, china and other countries actually enjoy privileges which european union companies do not enjoy. today this system is being reviewed, but we must establish the procedure for its revision, because the united states of america alone - i remind myself and my colleagues - is producing almost 200 billion dollars a year, a sum which, however, remains within the united states. the point is that while everyone can come to work in europe, our small and mediumsized enterprises cannot go to work in the rest of the world. the government procurement agreement (gpa) agreements are, amongst others, agreements which provide for the exclusion of european companies from the international system. what choice is there, then, today? the commission, as far as i understand it, believes that by abolishing the privileges of others, we can once again compete on a level playing field. it's not like that. i believe that it is necessary to protect european small and mediumsized enterprises by granting them the same privileges within the european union, and therefore vis-à-vis the european union, as small and mediumsized enterprises in the united states and other countries of the world enjoy today. i therefore not only thank my colleague, mr varela suanzes-carpegna, but i also believe that the position taken by france at this moment in the council is certainly to be favoured and facilitated in relation to the position of the european commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very saddened by the example we are setting in relation to a resolution which we have discussed in depth in the committee on development and on which we have had time to table amendments. this is a matter which does not interfere - certainly no more than many other far more violent resolutions adopted by this parliament - in china's internal affairs. we know very well that the caste issue is deeply sensitive but we have listened to the dalits, who live not only in india but in many other countries: it is about millions of people living in degrading and inhumane conditions. i am sorry, but i really think that this is a bad example of our parliament and i think, as with all the other resolutions that are being voted, that the resolution in question, being a resolution voted by the committee on development, should be voted on in this house, as it concerns a question of human dignity and the right of millions of people to live in respect of their lives and dignity. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in a very informal way i would also like to thank mr jackson and mr blokland for the work they have done. they have led us, so to speak, hand in hand until we have reached a summary by a very large majority in the committee on the environment and have achieved a result that was not obvious at the outset: the commission has also proposed that the commission should make two documents, one on the recycling strategy and the other on the proposal for a revision of the framework directive on waste, which are now more coherent than the original commission documents, consistent. i particularly appreciated the way in which mrs jackson conducted the negotiations with us shadow rapporteurs, which enabled us to resolve almost all the problems by consensus. that is why, mr jackson, i was a little surprised and a little bit bitter when i saw that you had tabled amendments on behalf of your group which, on one particular point, call these agreements into question, which creates problems for us, let us say embarrassment. let's get down to the priorities. first of all: i would like to say that the commission has been very positive in emphasizing, more than the commission, the priority of preventing the production of waste, by defining it better and setting a stabilisation target by 2012, with a whole series of concrete accompanying measures. secondly, we have a point which i intend to defend to the end, mr jackson: we have defined and concretely affirmed the five-level hierarchy. just like a hierarchy, you do one thing first, and only after the second, the third, and so on, precisely: prevention, reuse, recycling, recovery and finally disposal. we have not excluded the possibility of deviating from this hierarchy, but we have limited the possibility to rigid evaluation criteria, starting with cost-benefit analysis throughout the life cycle of consumer goods. that is why i am a little surprised that you call this solution bureaucratic today. thirdly: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it is not possible to contradict the hierarchy by calling energy recovery recovery, which is instead disposal. this is a direct contradiction of the hierarchy and risks creating undue competition with renewable energies. i would like to make it clear that there is no ideological objection to incineration and energy recovery, but i also agree with mrs brepoels that it is appropriate to postpone the definition of this subject to a more appropriate forum. is there any plan to revise the incineration directive? i think that is the most appropriate place to define the problem of energy recovery, and that is why i have tabled an amendment to that effect, namely amendment no 136, which i think is very reasonable. let us not throw too many problems into this directive, let us look at the matter more calmly and with a technical depth! finally, i too would like to break a spear on the subject of biowaste: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the recycling of waste is not carried out in a way that would be contrary to the interests of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union must also provide itself with new instruments to limit the production of waste by promoting reuse, recycling and recovery in order to reduce its negative impact on the environment. without concrete recycling targets at european level, member states that have not developed recycling techniques will try to achieve the targets of reducing landfills by favouring incinerators and ignoring the more virtuous steps. the five-tier hierarchy alone will not prevent this, so we must aim to recycle at least 50% of biodegradable waste, promote separate collection and recycling systems and ensure that reusable or recyclable material is not disposed of in landfills and incinerators. the amendments tabled by mr jackson, which allow municipal waste incinerators to be classified as recovery plants rather than disposal plants, in fact undermine the application of the five priority levels and open the way to private business in incinerators. if we really want europe to become the recycling society of the future, we must first focus on prevention by reducing waste production and then prioritising reuse and recycling.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on her articulate report, which deals with topical issues of the utmost importance and focuses on the situation of women in turkey and hence in the european union. many people are saying that the progress made by that country on its path towards membership of the european union must be assessed first in terms of respect for human rights and then in terms of equal rights between the two sexes. we agree, but i believe that equal rights for women in turkey should be achieved independently of the aspiration to join the european union. this is a fundamental issue for any modern and democratic state, and unfortunately the european union does not have much of a say in this respect in order to be able to stand up for guarantees and rights. the rapporteur stresses in particular the very low presence of turkish women in the centres of power and in paragraph 41 suggests a short-term remedy such as the adoption of a system of compulsory quotas. i am sceptical, if the quota system is ineffective in the european union, why should it work in turkey? the approach to the report arouses two opposite feelings in me: i am glad to see that there is no mention of torture or the excessive use of police force during demonstrations, but i am also concerned to see that many issues such as female illiteracy and honour killings are still of disturbing relevance. i am afraid that the time to remedy this is very long, much longer than any optimistic forecast.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not repeat the questions which have already been put to the commission, but which are very similar to those put by other members. i shall also avoid repeating the threat that we are testing in this house, as i said in committee, the potentially dangerous, though not lethal, potential of mixtures which can be easily made with duty free materials or other substances not subject to the restrictions we are discussing. it is certainly possible that any malicious person could use materials that are found on board aircraft and can be purchased after the pre-boarding check. my frequent passage through airports is a sad and at the same time hilarious witness to the full containers and harmless artifacts seized from passengers, mothers and children who are not yet able to talk, elderly people who may be experiencing their first painful experience of travel, other distracted travellers who, armed only with common sense but uninformed about the useless precautionary measures of the eu, end up deprived and unarmed of shaving foam and shampoo, deadly scissors, limes and knives, soft drinks and everything else they can buy in duty free. the controls are certainly for the safety of all of us, but how much do they actually serve as safeguards and are they not silly and annoying inconveniences for passengers and additional costs for travellers and for those who manage airport operations? finally, since i do not know whether any studies and investigations have been carried out on the actual dangers of the prohibited articles and, above all, on the statistical incidence of the intentional use of these products, i wonder whether any studies and investigations have also been classified as the annex to the commission regulation. how many hijackers have used nail polish to perpetrate their crime? how many have sprayed beard foam on the ship's equipment or held passengers and crew hostage with it? how many were caught carrying refrigerated boxes, which were cushioned for the stability of the nitroglycerin? this would give me and all the citizens of europe a sense of the need for the measures in question and the secrecy which still surrounds this rather enigmatic matter.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly recognize and respect the seriousness and depth of your european commitment and your speech today sets out priorities on which the greens/european free alliance are essentially in agreement, albeit with a degree of vagueness. you have rightly recalled the history of this parliament and i am very grateful to you for bringing the presidents of our assembly to the house today. i had the opportunity to meet some of them when i came to parliament as a young and enthusiastic federalist and to accompany many of them in their work: so i am really glad to see you here today. nevertheless, mr president, we expect the facts to prove it, and these facts confront us with very concrete choices, which cannot remain vague and on which our parliament will have to decide whether to remain silent and disciplined or whether to be the place where action is taken in the name of a european interest and value, which today is almost lost behind diplomatic ballets and reasons of state. this is the responsibility of our institution: the european parliament is the forum for european debate and proposals for a democratic europe. in this sense, mr president, the contribution of our institution to resolving the constitutional impasse cannot simply be, as you have said, to 'save the substance of the constitution', as mrs merkel said to us, literally and certainly not by chance. we cannot be satisfied with 'saving the substance of the constitution' in a merely declaratory way. we must urgently do two things which this parliament has not been able to do in the past, under your presidency of the epp-ed and under the presidency of mr schulz - no, i am referring to the two chairmen of the majority groups - namely, firstly, agree on what exactly to do as a parliament, with full autonomy, on the constitution and, secondly, and more importantly, fight for the european parliament to maintain its constitutional role, which it has won with the convention. if we are to discuss a timetable or a proposal, we want to act, mrs merkel, mr poettering, as co-decision-makers and not as observers. president poettering, i want to see you fight for this right of parliament. let 's hear it . mr president, you spoke of values and you cited concrete cases which are shared on the subject of defending the rights of individuals, which is of great importance to our institution. she also spoke of tolerance, a word she loves very much. i will say for myself that this word sometimes worries me, because behind the word 'tolerance' there have been crimes and violations of individual rights committed - tolerated precisely - which we cannot forget. that is why we prefer to speak of "common rights for all men and women", which are and must remain the same for all. talking about relations with russia means introducing the issue of chechnya and, responsibly, opening a debate on reducing energy dependence, knowing how to harshly criticize those countries - and there are many of them - who run in scattered order to the court of the "tsar" putin. in the dialogue with the united states, we cannot forget the death penalty in force in that country, the cia flights, the question of passenger data, the preventive war. finally, the defence of human rights cannot forget, even through small emergency resolutions, the defence of those individuals who, alone, lost in some prison or some forest, defend them. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european union has also expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. mr president, we will be very active in the work of internal reform. there are two issues that you did not mention and which i think are fundamental: the first is the debate on the seat. i hope that you and the groups will have the courage to discuss the seat of the european parliament in this chamber. perhaps the home of european history could very well be here, in this beautiful building. who knows? but i think it is important that you really take the initiative in dealing with the question of where parliament should meet. the second theme -- and i know very well that i will have to work very hard to convince you -- is to make this institution greener, not from a political point of view but from the point of view of its ecological sustainability. i am absolutely sure that i will be able to convince you, because today, as today, the waste of resources perpetrated by this house in terms of water, electricity and service cars is something that, in order to be faithful to our commitments on climate change, we cannot tolerate. i would like to conclude by addressing mrs merkel briefly. his proposals on bureaucracy, discontinuity and better regulation leave us rather cold and worried. the problem of bureaucracy is more national than european: how many people are in the delegation accompanying you today? it is certainly more nourished than the one that accompanies president barroso and those who complain about too many rules are the multinationals, not the citizens, who show according to subsequent eurobarometer surveys that they want more laws in their defense and not less! finally, the discontinuity proposal actually introduces the possibility for your institution to boycott and delay any legislation you do not like. i therefore wish you a good job, mr president, and i think we shall have a good time in the next two years. let 's hear it .
that concludes the voting.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, one of the reasons that most irritates public opinion is the excessive regulation of the european union. not only too many rules, but also too difficult to understand and complex: this trend must be stopped. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. such rules are the result of pressure exerted by powerful interests for the protection of personal affairs and not for the welfare of citizens. where there are too many rules, bureaucracy prevails, not politics or economics, and the union can also die of bureaucracy. better regulation must become an imperative for the institutions and parliament must be the driving force behind it. we are pleased to find the attention of the council presidency on this point too. as the speeches in this chamber this morning show, it is a certain european left which keeps calling for new legislation, with little concern for how much it is actually applied and applicable. we believe that a free and inclusive society is based on certain, clear and shared rules and not on elephantine bureaucracies. in the interests of growth and development, we call on the council to take up with greater determination a policy which is attentive to the problems of the african continent and vigilant in respect of the rights of the individual and of the worker, in the countries with which we have economic exchanges but also within the union itself. without a common energy policy there will be no recovery and no development. we share the commission's new green paper on renewable sources and the improvement of natural gas infrastructure, with a focus on degassing plants, a position also shared by the council presidency. all obstacles must therefore be removed, including those of the italian minister for the environment, mr pecoraro scanio, who continues to ignore the european positions on the matter and thus hold back development. development and the environment are the challenges we must meet, including by ratifying a new treaty which defines, in the europe of 27, the new and different powers of our institutions.
the report by mrs katerina batzeli, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine (2006/2109 (ini)) (a6-0016/2007)
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, wine is not only an agricultural and economic product but also a symbol of our history, culture and tradition. we cannot therefore accept a reform which is essentially aimed at reducing the size of a sector which today uses only 3% of the budgetary funds, compared with a value-added production of 7%. the commission proposes to reduce production and to clear some 400 000 hectares of vineyards over five years, citing the need to reduce the costs of managing surplus production and to improve european competitiveness through the principle of 'only the strongest will remain on the market'. it is curious to note that while in europe the grubbing up of vineyards is encouraged, in other countries such as south america and south africa, planting is encouraged. given that overall demand is not falling but rising, it seems that the commission intends to restore balance in the internal market of the european union without taking account of global demand and the balance of the world market and without considering that in the hasty work of reducing european wine production there is a risk of eliminating some vineyards which, although not producing products that are extremely strong on the market, are quality regional productions with strong historical traditions that still constitute the social fabric of entire regional areas. the truth is that new world wines are gaining market share thanks to a steady improvement in the quality of their production, coupled with the competitiveness of their prices. the new intervention arrangements should enable the whole supply chain to meet the new challenges posed by an increasingly globalised market. the winning formula is that of those who invest in the quality and characterization of european wines, in cost reductions, in the promotion of wine in order to expand the market, and we also fear that the liberalization of new oenological practices may lead to a deterioration in the image of wine and thus undermine the relationship of trust between consumer and product, with very serious consequences for consumption. commissioner, the wine sector needs a reform that will create conditions for increased competitiveness for european wine, by continuing the restructuring of vineyards to make them more competitive and by promoting the permanence of viticulture at the expense of the territory and the environment. geographical indications and designations of origin must be seen as indispensable tools to better guarantee and protect european producers. in short, madam commissioner, the revival and development of the sector on the world market is what we are asking for in a new wine policy for the union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs batzeli for her work and also commissioner fischer boel for the listening skills she has shown since the communication. we hope that the legislative proposal which will be submitted to us will be consistent with the many indications given by both parliament and the european producers. this is a very important step, which will enable european wine-growing to regain market momentum, regain competitiveness and, above all, enable our wines to compete with third countries, regaining old markets but also conquering new ones. we are not entirely convinced of some solutions, madam commissioner, and, above all, the cornerstone of reform cannot be the final eradication. this measure will result in a massive and uncontrolled abandonment of difficult viticulture, which, in addition to having a productive function, also has a role in environmental and landscape protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is a matter of choice and our choice must be that of a quality wine, not just any other drink. in promoting our wines we must promote our traditions, our territories, our culture, our added value, the expression of a great historical and cultural heritage. for this reason, i am not convinced by the proposal to allow imported grape must to be used to enrich our wines or to blend them with wines from third countries, nor by the idea of indicating the vintage year on the label of wines without a geographical indication, allowing the use of varieties linked to the territory but above all with the great risk of confusing the consumer. on the other hand, we must protect the efforts and investments made by winegrowers, promote our geographical indications at international level and avoid their economic degradation. there are two words we should remember: flexibility and market orientation. but flexibility does not mean the sudden and total and indiscriminate abolition of all current management measures. i also believe, madam commissioner, that the resources should be allocated according to the historical criteria, that is to say, following the same criteria as for all the other reforms adopted so far.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i regard the batzeli report on the com as a preparatory moment for a dialogue which will lead to the legislative report and, therefore, to final decisions during the course of this year. however, i think it would be useful for parliament to give its opinion on some of the main points of the proposal, and certainly one of them is the issue of extirpation. like other members, i do not agree with this proposal as the only and exclusive way of rebalancing the market. we must confront ourselves on the world stage and the strength of european wine lies in the promotion of quality and traditional practices, as well as in the link with the territories and centuries-old practices that accompany this production. to this end, i too am against the importation of must: we have tabled a reinforcing amendment to that effect as the socialist group. i believe that, even through today's passage, the dialogue will also lead to positive results for periods of transition towards measures which, like distillation, abolished immediately, remove protection nets for many wine growers. i think that mutual listening will, however, make it possible to support european production on a world scale.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the figures speak for themselves. in recent years europe has seen its production decline, while other non-european countries have seen their production shares steadily increase. today, when europe is embarking on the reform of the wine-producing countries, it must take account of the fact that some 3,400,000 hectares and 3,000,000 employees are involved. to think of eradication as a market-balancing instrument is to follow the path of the previous amendments to the cmo for tobacco and sugar. we cannot continue down this road, which leads to a fall in the level of employment and the abandonment of entire agricultural areas, often located in fragile areas from the point of view of hydrogeological stability. any reform must therefore take account above all of the undertakings, the workers and the environmental conditions, and it is only by defending and maintaining a european agricultural production system that we can guarantee quality and safety for consumers. the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, has certainly made an improvement in the commissioner's position. but i think there are still concerns. first of all, we must abandon the hypothesis of eradication and use the lever of production conversion for those productions which have market difficulties, in the direction of quality production. as the latest figures on european exports show, it is quality that is rewarded, and therefore production that must be linked to the regions and our traditions. this is the way to go, not to turn wine into a mere industrial product. hence the rejection of sugaring as a means of enrichment and the need to define precise rules on winemaking. in this sense, the use of must of european origin for enrichment cannot be penalized, as it is a practice of the european wine-growing tradition which does not affect the quality of the wine itself. that is why it is important to maintain support for financing for must. in the final analysis, any reform cannot ignore the climate change that is currently taking place, which will have a serious impact on some areas of southern europe, disrupting their production systems. the time has come for europe to defend its territory, its civilisation and its traditions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the reform we are trying to implement must give an adequate answer to the challenge of the competitiveness of the european wine market in a global context. we agree that europe can only meet the challenge if it preserves and improves the quality of wine, by enhancing its specificity. but not all the answers we found are fully consistent with the final goal. so we can say that the text adopted by the committee on agriculture is the best possible one and yet it requires further updating. it is therefore right to proceed with a prudent, phased, carefully managed reform based on the principle of subsidiarity in order to respect the specificities existing at national and regional level. all agricultural financing must therefore be kept under the first pillar: training campaigns for responsible consumption should be implemented; maintain, at least for the time being, distillation measures as a safety net for producers; the commission has also proposed that the member states be allowed to restrict the grubbing up of vine varieties on the basis of strict environmental and social criteria, with a preferential approach to the protection of small-scale quality production. as regards the maintenance of the existing rules on the authorized practices for winemaking, sugaring and must, i note that the strong defence of these practices by some delegations raises the question of national interests in relation to those of the union and recalls the need to strengthen the idea of a united europe, avoiding market distortions that excessive nationalism entails. if the aim is to improve the competitiveness of european wines, the proposal to support the practice of adding sucrose and the use of must is counter-productive, because the use of these additives lowers the level of quality and reduces the differences, which are the best expression of wine growing. perhaps we could have made a greater effort in this respect, by raising the question of community interests and asking, as i do, that all the countries of the union - none excluded - consider how inappropriate and politically incorrect it is to put national interests ahead of those of europe and how essential it is to strike the right balance between these needs.
member of the commission. mr president, i would just like to touch on some of the major issues that have been raised by many of you in this very important debate. grubbing-up was mentioned by almost all of you. i am not quite sure that you listened carefully to what i said in my introduction, namely that we need to ensure that grubbing-up does not disrupt important and legitimate social and environmental concerns. listen carefully, and i will take this into consideration when we make the legal proposals. mr graefe zu baringdorf said very clearly that grubbing-up should not be forced upon our winegrowers. exactly. it should not be, because the decision on grubbing-up is one for winegrowers and winegrowers alone to take. it is not a decision for the member states or for the commission, but exclusively for the winegrowers. but we should not force those growers that are today struggling to be successful in winegrowing to remain in a business where they cannot make money year after year. so let us give them a possibility to leave the sector in a decent way. on distillation, i have yet to meet anyone willing to tell me, off the record, that crisis distillation could ever make good sense. on the contrary, i think it gives our citizens an excuse to portray the common agricultural policy in the most negative way, referring to the old-fashioned methods and tools that we used in previous times. we cannot defend spending half a billion euros every year on getting rid of wine that nobody wants to drink. this does not work and i hope you will support me on this. therefore, we need promotion. it is something that the european parliament has stressed over and again and i am prepared to make a push on this. but promotion at european level must not be a cushion for the wine sector. the wine sector itself also needs to be much more aggressive. in ireland we have seen the consumption of wine increasing. and today 70% of the wine consumed in ireland is imported from outside the european union. therefore, i simply did not understand why at the recent world ploughing championships in ireland, which attracted 250 000 visitors, only two wine producers were present, neither of them from europe. i can only ask why. on imported must for vinification, i have said clearly from the beginning that we have to put everything on the table and i have taken note of the reactions from the european parliament, from different member states and from stakeholders. christa klaß mentioned that there are huge differences within the different regions. i have been able to see this for myself and therefore i think we have to stress the importance of the idea of national envelopes in the commission communication. i think it is an excellent possibility for member states and for regions to allocate the different tools and the money as part of a national envelope completely tailor-made for the different regions. i think this is crucial. quite a lot of you stressed that we need to base our future in the wine sector on quality, quality and quality, and i can totally endorse that. i am looking forward to holding discussions with you in the future on the wine reform that i will present to the council, hopefully just before the summer break, and then i will be happy to come here to the european parliament to present it at the same time, as the basis for our future discussions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i agree with the commission on the importance of simplifying and harmonising legislative measures and strengthening the competitiveness of the european wine sector while ensuring environmental sustainability. however, while support for european farmers and the heavy agricultural budget must be gradually reduced in favour of other policies, the eu must also protect the main sectors of its economy. the wine sector is certainly among them, with a production that in 2005 yielded almost 2 million euros, and that in italy alone affects more than 2,500,000 companies, and cannot be entirely abandoned to the rules of the free market: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i also find it dubious that the countries of northern europe have unfortunately succeeded in altering the conditions of competition within the eu by proposing aid for the use of sucrose to increase the alcoholic strength, without maintaining aid for the production of must, a common practice in our country and in other mediterranean countries, which guarantees the highest quality of our production.
the agenda includes the report by mr lutz goepel, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down rules for the voluntary modulation of direct payments provided for in regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, and amending regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 (com (2006) 0241 - c6-0235/2006 - 2006/0083 (cns)) (a6-0009/2007)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mrs fiona hall, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, 'towards a european radio spectrum policy' (2006/2212 (ini)) (a6-0467/2006)
member of the commission. madam president, i have to compliment the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, mrs hall, for realising the importance of the choices europe is about to make with regard to radio spectrum policy. this is an area where political decisions have a direct impact on the quality of jobs and growth in the european economy. services dependent on radio spectrum represent around 2 to 3% of europe’s gdp. there have been studies for the world bank and for the oecd which clearly link the development of electronic communication services to economic growth. an econometric study made for the commission tentatively associated better spectrum break relation with 0.1% of extra gdp growth per year. this would quickly cumulate to deliver real benefits. the urgency of the matter can be summed up in the word ‘convergence’. practically all communications are quickly becoming digital and there is an increasing number of infrastructures competing to carry services. the old categories are disappearing and we need to respond with a regulation that permits the spectrum users to choose the mix of services and technologies that they prefer and that in many cases permits them to buy and sell spectrum rights to each other. the reasons for regulation are still strong. we have to manage interference. we need to ensure that the rights to use spectrum are clearly defined and we need to ensure a level playing field. the report that we are debating tonight is in most aspects in line with this policy vision and i want to thank the rapporteur for her efforts. one area of divergence concerns including spectrum for terrestrial broadcasting distribution in the planned reforms. we are not questioning the importance of the television companies’ public service function, nor their contribution to cultural and linguistic diversity. we should, however, think very carefully before we privilege one specific form of broadcasting distribution without regard to the costs to our society in terms of opportunity. a case in point: the report quite rightly highlights wireless broadband as a tool for rural development and for breaching the digital divide. this requires tough choices about the balance between broadcasting and other services. there are necessary decisions to be made to safeguard the resources and functioning of public service broadcasting, but we should not use spectrum policy as a substitute for real debate. the amendment gives a more balanced approach by mentioning the need to secure stability and security for media services and the importance of a level playing field for new entrants and new technologies. i have one final point to make: on the basis of the full analysis, the choice of the national regulators is to award spectrum to broadcasters. these users must also have the same obligation as any other users to be good stewards of a public resource and use it as effectively as possible. we think that our reform proposal would help to implement this principle.
member of the commission. madam president, i presume an answer would be expected from the commission, but i promise i shall keep it short. i share the appreciation of parliament regarding the vital role played by public service television and other media for democracy, diversity and for the encouragement for a public debate. it is necessary that future regulations continue to ensure that this programming can be distributed to the citizens in accordance with the public service obligations assumed by those broadcasters. however, assuming that these goals can be satisfied and keeping in mind the reality of convergence, we should carefully assess the need for the spectrum required to offer a public broadcasting service and to ensure its efficient use. in consequence, we need to provide broadcasters with the means and the flexibility to continue to develop their offer to the benefit of our society. we have listened carefully and your comments will be taken into account during the revision of the telecommunication regulation, which will be proposed by the second half of 2007.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls into question the report by mr giovanni claudio fava, on behalf of the temporary committee on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of persons, on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of persons (2006/22000 (ini)) - (a6-0020/2007).
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, after a year of work and more than 200 hearings, seven missions abroad, thousands of pages and documents analysed, what we are presenting to parliament this morning is not just the final report of our committee's work, but a rigorous analysis of five years of excesses and abuses, often tolerated in the name of the fight against international terrorism. the fight against terrorism is a challenge to which we are all committed without any defection, but without accepting that, in the name of this challenge, the fundamental principles of our treaties are reduced to scraps of paper. so we come to the point of our mandate: i'm not sure. did our governments know? certain governments certainly do. they knew about those governments that decided to send their agents to interrogate the rendition victims in guantanamo, in syria, in afghanistan. the european embassies in sarajevo knew what would happen to algerians captured and handed over to the americans against the order of the local courts to release them. the top italian seismic officials knew that the cia was planning a kidnapping on italian soil. there is a great deal of responsibility and a competition of faults around these events which have spared few european countries. the facts we have collected, mr president, facts - not opinions or prejudices - are concrete, serious, proven, verified. facts are also the unanswered questions, the contradictions and omissions we have collected: but if in the face of these facts, anyone should decide to turn the other way, it will only be his lack of civil courage, his lack of intellectual honesty. mr gawronski asks me almost every day what new things we have discovered in the last few months. a lot of things, mr gawronski. we found that behind the 21 cases of renditions we've reconstructed, there are many more: prisoners without faces, without names, without anyone to complain about their fate, because they had no western passports in their pockets. we found one man innocent: the european union has a duty to help the people of the world, and to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world, to help the people of the world. we have found that torture is useless in the fight against terrorism: this is what maher arar, an innocent victim of a rendition, who was detained and tortured for 12 months in syria, told us. we found out this and more because mura kurnaz, maher arar were our witnesses: we asked to be heard before our committee and we questioned them at length, and many others: victims, relatives, lawyers, judges, and so on. two hundred auditions, mr. president, the champion of a wounded and humiliated humanity. and now we should just pretend nothing happened and turn the other way, as many european governments have done? of course, some would prefer more condescending, more cautious words, perhaps thinking that abuse, violations, excesses are the normal price to pay in the fight against terrorism. that's not true. the strength of our principles lies in the rigour with which we will apply them, starting with the report we are discussing this morning. this parliament, mr president, is called upon to reaffirm its autonomy from the games of convenience and political affiliation. in the face of the truth, each of us represents neither a government nor a party, but only himself, his moral integrity, his integrity as a man and as a member of parliament. i should like to thank, mr president, first of all the chairman of the committee, mr carlos coelho, for the balance with which he has directed our work this year. i would like to thank all the officials and staff and colleagues who have devoted themselves with particular care and passion to this work. the page that is being written today in our parliament is first and foremost the fruit of this common civic passion. we now expect the same rigour and, if i may say so, the same consistency from the council and the commission. we have opened a door and we will not allow anyone to close it. it is our duty to make every effort, even beyond this report, to ensure that the events of the past five years are never repeated.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the committee on budgets. today we have to admit that we failed. we got off on the wrong foot. in our first mission to washington, we presented ourselves to the state department as a court of indictment - i'm sorry to disappoint you, commissioner frattini - making it difficult from the start to have a dialogue, which would have been useful in achieving our goal. after our visit to london, the british minister for european affairs sent a letter to his european colleagues advising them not to meet with us. although we have lost hope of improving the report in question, we made one last attempt yesterday at our meeting, by pointing out some key points about our amendments which, if they were not adopted, would result in our voting against at group level. the rapporteur has already indicated that unless he changes his mind he will not approve our 'key amendments' and so everything suggests that we will vote against. but if i may be permitted to briefly dispense with my role as coordinator and speak in a personal capacity, i must admit that even if these amendments were adopted, many in our group would vote against the report. i would personally only be able to vote for you if two amendments tabled by me, which i consider to be very simple, straightforward and acceptable, were adopted. the first says that the secret services are so called because they are secret and must be allowed to act in secret, as long as they do not violate the law. the second says the cia can fly whenever and however it wants, as long as it doesn't violate the law. if these amendments were adopted, i would also be inclined to vote in favour. the rapporteur rejected them. i believe that the failure to adopt these amendments means that this report is not only intended to identify, denounce and punish the guilty, but also to condemn the secret services as such to inefficiency, thereby exposing us to all the responsibilities and all the possible external threats. and that's why we don't like the relationship. we don't like it because it's useless: the rapporteur, mr fava, said that i would argue that there is nothing new in the report. it is true, i support it and i am not the only one who supports it. he's also supported by senator dick marty, who has been a great ally and supporter of his and has been received in our committee as a hero and a hero. the only difference between the report and yours is that the document for which you are rapporteur, mrs fava, was drawn up by 46 members and 13 full-time officials, whereas dick marty achieved the same result by working alone. that said, mr president, i would like to conclude by reiterating my agreement with commissioner frattini: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs fava, and mr coelho for the work they have done in this committee. parliament has rigorously recounted the last few years of the perverse american strategy of the war on terrorism, which has been based on criminal methods and violations of human rights. this strategy has been made possible by the complicity of european governments and security services. condoleeza rice said it too. "there has been no violation of national sovereignty". there are also responsibilities to be assigned to the european institutions, starting with the omissions of javier solana and gijs de vries. i think, however, that it is also worth pointing out the embarrassing silence of the president of the commission, who, when he was portuguese prime minister, was so well aware of american strategy that he organized the famous azores summit five days before the start of the war in iraq. i think that another point should also be made. the vice-president of the commission has said in this house that he knew nothing about the abduction of abu omar, which took place when he was foreign minister of italy. i believed him and i still believe him, but in the meantime, a new fact has come to light, which i think can be clarified: admiral battelli, former head of the seismic, who said he received from the cia a list of long-standing suspected terrorists to be followed, including abu omar. the head of the sismi, by law, must report to the government and at that time commissioner frattini had the delegation to the secret services in the italian government. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that our work has brought many things to light, although there are still some things to be studied. we are confident that today's vote will serve for the future, not only to say 'never again' but also to discover further responsibilities. a great latin historian said, "they make the desert and call it peace". we believe that peace can be built by avoiding the desert, by avoiding the death of the rule of law in the name of the false fight against terrorism.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i participated in the committee of inquiry as a non-attached member, with the exception of the final vote, where i represented the its group, with the intention of trying to understand the plausibility of the accusations against the member states of collusion and complicity in human rights violations. i am convinced that, contrary to many members of the committee, to my colleague the rapporteur and to the italian party he represents, in the programme of my party, the tricolour flame, and in my personal convictions, europe should play a different role in the geopolitical context and, again contrary to what mr fava represents, i consider the atlantic alliance to be an outdated instrument, because it assigns europe a subordinate role. i would therefore have an ideological right to censor the activities of the cia and of any other organisation working for the usa and nato within the union. but i also think i am objectively balanced in rejecting the conclusions of the fava report, because it is not only tainted by the hypocrisy of the report, namely that it calls into question the actions of a state which recognizes and accepts itself as an ally, but it is also biased and adds nothing new to what has already been written in many newspapers. of course, any violation of human rights is abhorrent and must be rejected and cannot be tolerated: but to claim the presumption of innocence in matters of intelligence is laughable and even dangerous if the aim is the protection of peoples and states. we cannot vote on the fava report without the approval of many of the amendments tabled, in particular by mr pirilli and mr gawronski.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that the right to the sanctity of life, to the dignity of man - this is the aim of the noble part of the fava report - is an absolute value in which we all believe and for which we are prepared to fight. but fava goes further and becomes a party inquisitor and recognizes this right to terrorists but not to secret agents indicted and arrested in milan by a magistrate who denies the head of the italian services, general pollari, the right to defense, rejecting his request to hear as witnesses the head of the previous government, berlusconi, and the current one, prodi. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report. mr fava does not care that an intelligence-protected operation and the suppression of the right to human dignity, even if terrorist, could have prevented the repetition of the tragedy of the twin towers. the report condemns, deplores and condemns all the governments of europe, right and left, and the council of europe itself, all of whom are complicit and subordinate to the hated enemy bush. is it possible that only mr fava is right and that only the judges of three countries - italy, spain and germany - are the heroes of this report? however, the italian centre-left government, led by romano prodi, has challenged before the constitutional court the acts of the italian government - those produced by the milan public prosecutor - in defence of state secrets. mr. fava, the right of defense is reserved for terrorists. pollari, the head of the italian secret services, does not have to defend himself: he's guilty of it. but he cannot reveal that abu omar, a suspected cia agent, was taken to be snatched from death, so he was not taken to guantanamo but returned to his country and is now free. abu omar is a cia spy. pollari is right, but it doesn't matter. the human rights law has been violated, and this cannot be done even if the violation was aimed at saving human lives and the security of states. a great teacher of mine, the jurist salvatore pugliatti, used to say that "the law is female and can be violated and the law is male, no". we are for the right and not for the law.
, on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am making the following proposal on behalf of the group of the european people's party and in accordance with rule 155 (6) of the rules of procedure: i would ask for a block vote on 122 amendments which are complementary to each other in order to simplify the procedure. these amendments are more functional than the ones i am asking to be voted on individually. each of these has its own particular value: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections. the amendments to be put to the vote individually are as follows: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend the list of the member states which have not yet adopted the measures referred to in paragraph 1 by adding the following to the list of member states: i would also ask you to vote individually, amendment by amendment, on amendments nos 38 to 69 and 245 to 256. all the other 122 amendments can be voted on as a whole.
mr president, in order not to interrupt the vote on the fava report, which as we know will be a complex vote, i would like to ask if it would be possible, with the consent of the house, to reverse the order of business and thus vote first on the simpler and shorter reports and proceed to the vote on the fava report after the speech by president napolitano.
the rapporteur. mr president, just to warn the services that because of an inconsistency with the report voted in committee, paragraphs 114, 127 and 128 should be made consistent with the rest of the equivalent paragraphs. if amendment no 228 is adopted, then amendments nos 234 and 235 will also be adopted.
the rapporteur. mr president, the oral amendment is to replace the singular with the plural: the term 'document' relating to italian cooperation would become 'documents' and all other terms in the paragraph would be agreed in the plural.
mr president, i would just like to say that, following the adoption of this oral amendment, our group withdraws amendment no 261.
mr president, i agree with my colleague, willy meyer pleite, who proposed the amendment in question, and we too, for the same reasons as those put forward earlier by mr romeva i rueda, withdraw our amendment.
the rapporteur. mr president, they are compatible.
i would like to propose an oral amendment to paragraph 184. i read it in english: expresses serious concern about the content of the information in the air control register of portugal list regarding stopover of military planes through military bases in europe on the way from and to guantánamo.
the rapporteur. mr president, the oral amendment intends to add the following sentence: 'urges the member states to sign the above-mentioned convention without any delay; "
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fava report, whose value is not much more than that of a collage of press articles, especially on the defence of human rights, is an attempt to undermine the strength and effectiveness of counter-terrorism. the demand to have the names of italian military intelligence officers published on the european parliament's website only shows the level of irresponsibility of those who hypocritically claim to be fighting terrorism, and then actually take every opportunity to obstruct its implementation. the european parliament cannot and must not assume the power to deprive national governments and the member states of the european union of their full sovereignty in the protection of the security of their citizens, which is and must remain the inviolable heritage of nations and member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the european parliament was fully assembled, with the commission presidency and all the authorities of the european institutions, to discuss the rights of the terrorist gentlemen who have been violated. today, however, there are few experts to discuss and assess the strategy for combating terrorism and, above all, for defending the citizens of europe against the looming threat of terrorism. the history of europe's fight against terrorism will one day be written and this fact will be reaffirmed, together with the gravity of the text adopted this morning, namely the fava report, which is a great gift to al qaeda. the report rightly states that the factors contributing to radicalisation must be studied. these factors have a name and a surname: they're mosques and islamic centers. it is the absolute freedom that is granted to thousands of islamic centers and mosques to carry out propaganda and recruitment and to cooperate actively with islamic terrorist organizations. it is time that this parliament began to say this very clearly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the latest economic data are generally positive, but as the commission points out, productivity growth and the quality of jobs are falling short of what europe needs. i hope that these encouraging figures will not be an excuse for reducing our efforts, but a clear signal that we have identified the key strategic points and that we must continue to concentrate our work on them. i appeal to the european institutions and to the individual member states. i refer in particular to three areas of action: 1) continuing learning and training programmes and links between universities and other training institutions and the world of work; 2) the demographic response and challenge, for example support for women, the family, reform and harmonisation of social security systems; (3) the still insufficient support for small and mediumsized enterprises, particularly in their adaptation to the latest challenges of international trade and to the use of new technologies and innovations. it is in these areas that we must continue to insist.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report marks a happy chapter in the history of the european parliament for many reasons. first of all, because the inextricable link between economic, social and environmental issues, as has already been said, goes beyond the level of ritual statements and is manifested in concrete terms. just compare the title to the content to appreciate the twist. the report makes it clear how long this has been in the minds of the community institutions. the economic policy guidelines must integrate the social and environmental dimension, in the sense that these are the fundamental features of economic policy. it is not just a question of combining three equivalent areas in the best possible way, but of being aware that economic development is based on social cohesion and environmental awareness. secondly, because competitiveness requires compatibility, action is needed in specific areas such as research and development, energy and the environment, with specific objectives in the creation of full and good employment, of guarantee and dignity and security for people at work, attention to the needs of flexibility on both sides of the employment relationship, with instruments not only of conciliation but also of redistribution of roles. the coordination method can also provide useful results by indicating and exchanging not only good practice but also obstacles, difficulties and negative results. the commission has always taken great care in pursuing harmonization, taking account of contexts and systems which, although similar, retain their own specificities. but knowing not only the proposal but also the implementation procedure and the impact that has been achieved facilitates action by everyone at european, national and territorial level. finally, because the decisions of the member states must themselves follow an integrated horizontal approach and the preparation of plans and priorities must be reflected in the national budgets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must protect all those who are engaged in the proper and optimal management of fisheries resources and the protection of the marine environment. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the fight against illegal fishing cannot be limited to repressive measures, but must promote intensive preventive action through structural measures. the report we are voting on, for which i thank my colleague, marie-hélène aubert, very effectively identifies a number of strategic actions to this end: the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. these are essential tools to reduce, if not eliminate, illegal fishing by community vessels in community waters and to prevent the landing and trade of illegally caught fish outside the union. the commission has also requested a study on compliance with community legislation on labour, health and safety, and on the respect of workers' social rights and their living and working conditions on board. improving the full traceability of fish throughout the conservation chain, from net to plate, avoiding depletion of fisheries resources and environmental degradation, and supporting the quality of life and work of communities that depend on fishing for their livelihoods, are forms of prevention and deterrence that allow, in a structural way, to curb the phenomenon of illegality and that put community fisheries at the forefront in the world.
the european observatory on racism and xenophobia has recently provided us with some disturbing data, indicating that acts of racism and xenophobia against minorities are increasingly taking place in europe. in particular, these acts are committed against the roma, who are the largest ethnic minority in the european union. there is a lot of discrimination in respect of the right to work and the right to education, and roma often live in poverty and marginalization. sometimes it is the very institutions that are supposed to protect people's rights that discriminate. a recent example is slovenia, where an entire group of people who had lived in the country for many years were taken out of the area where they had lived for a long time. i think that the participation of the roma in social and political life should be encouraged, but to that end the member states must recognize them as an ethnic and linguistic minority. the camp system should be overcome, and housing should be encouraged to facilitate integration by eliminating all forms of segregation. the roma are the bearers of a millennial culture and i think we should have a lot of respect for nomadic cultures. we owe them the birth of the so-called western civilization, the one that was born in mesopotamia, in that iraq which is today under military occupation, improperly stirring up the war of civilizations. we are indebted to the roma, even though, and i believe, civilized europe has often mistreated and discriminated against them. we must therefore promote their social inclusion and free movement. i therefore join my colleagues in calling on the commission to make a more active effort. i know that commissioner almunia is not competent in this area and will probably not be able to give us a full answer, but we think it is appropriate for the commission to move more quickly on these issues.
the agenda includes the report by mr cristobal montoro romero, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report of the european investment bank (eib) for 2005 (2006/2269 (ini)) - (a6-0011/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the report by mr manuel antónio dos santos, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the macroeconomic impact of the increase in energy prices (2006/2247 (ini)) (a6-0001/2007) is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after amendment no 19 i would like to propose that the text of this oral amendment be inserted, which i believe the rapporteur will also welcome: "in light of the recent discovery of highly dangerous terrorist organizations in italy and france".
in writing. for those who have been producing wine for centuries, it is not just a drink like any other to be marketed for profit: it is a choice made by history, culture, respect and the pursuit of quality, often excellence. italy, the world's largest exporter of wine, has made high quality its flagship product, while respecting consumers and the wine-making tradition. this relationship is schizophrenic: on the one hand, there is talk of promoting quality, on the other hand, there is talk of enrichment with sugar. on the one hand, there is talk of protecting geographical indications, on the other hand, there is openness to new oenological practices, including wine with grapefruit. the commission's position is well known, and for years it has favoured wild liberalization and large-scale distribution at the expense of quality, tradition and the protection of consumers and producers. i would like to mention, for example, regulation 316 of 2004, which liberalized 17 traditional terms, thus opening the way to wine piracy. for all these reasons, while voting in favour of the report, we express great concern for the future of the high quality of the wine sector, especially italian.
in writing. the protection of european wine production is threatened by the commission's proposal on the wine cmo. it provides for the grubbing-up of vineyards, which risks affecting entire areas designated for this purpose and irreparably damaging the cultivation of indigenous vines, which, although not very widespread, nevertheless represent a history and traditions that go back thousands of years. given that in the countries of the so-called "new world" (south africa, australia and south america, where vines are planted) the production and quality of wines is constantly growing and that these wines are increasingly present on the european market, and taking into account that the global demand for wine is increasing, the eradication is all the more incomprehensible. europe must be able to compete on equal terms with its competitors! in order to give greater value to european wine production and oenology, i have tabled an amendment on behalf of the uen group which stresses the need to maintain the ban in europe on the use of new oenological practices for the ageing of wine (such as the use of oak chips instead of the traditional barrique).
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am simply speaking to join the group of european liberal, democratic and reformist party in the call, first of all to the chinese regime, to resume dialogue, a call - let us not forget - also to our european institutions. as a european parliament we have already put forward the proposal to appoint a special representative specifically for the tibet question, but we know that this proposal has not yet been put into practice. i think that would be a useful and tangible contribution. there are other instruments in parallel, such as a declaration by the presidency of the european union. i hope that the discussion and the discussion will not be limited to a mere invitation to the chinese regime, since the request in question also concerns directly and at the highest levels the institutions of the european union. we don't have to be afraid of that. this parliament has shown that it is not utopian in its support for the importance of political and commercial relations with the chinese regime. no one here wants to deny the real importance of these relations: but we must not make the opposite mistake either, namely to 'pollinate' a line of conduct which clearly enjoys considerable popularity, not already within the institutions, but among the people. the tibetan issue and support for dialogue are issues which enjoy the support of the peoples of europe. for this reason, the current debate, the attention to human rights and the resumption of dialogue must not be affected by excessive timidity due to other reasons.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are more or less the same: the european union is now approaching 4 million refugees, about half of whom are "external" and the other half "internal" to iraq. this is in all respects an almost unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe, which is why the geneva conference of 17 april 2007 should not be missed: the european union must prepare and come in force, ensuring a political presence at the highest levels, having already decided on the appropriate availability of financial contributions. otherwise, you risk a complete failure. this is a point on which we must all be united, regardless of the political reasons for the conflict: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the community. as regards the causes, i think that perhaps but it is obviously not the subject of our resolution; i simply point out to the representatives of the council and the commission that it is appropriate to consider the possibility of referring the matter to the international criminal court in the face of the daily massacres in iraq, since these are systematic and daily crimes against humanity, and perhaps this could also contribute to the causes of this humanitarian catastrophe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we have asked for and accepted this debate and why a resolution is necessary is precisely because malta has not complied with the agreements reached. that's the problem, obviously. otherwise there would have been no resolution, no very explicit findings and recommendations from a fact-finding mission to malta, and the commission would not have recommended to the maltese government, as my colleagues know very well, that it not authorize spring hunting in the country this year, given what has happened in previous years. the reason for calling for a debate and a resolution is therefore the exact opposite of what my colleagues are saying: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. i hope that the house will follow the decision already taken earlier to draw up a resolution on this subject.
member of the commission. madam president, i thank mr hassem ferreira for this report and for his efforts to achieve a general consensus. i am pleased that you have very largely endorsed the approach presented by the commission in its communication of april 2006. the contribution of the european parliament to our deliberations is very important for defining a systematic approach to social services of general interest. this approach should clarify the application of community rules to social services of general interest and help to modernise those services in a permanent and predictable framework that ensures and supports their core social mission. in particular, the report by mr hasse ferreira recalls the essential role of social services of general interest as an important part of the european social model, the importance of such services in the framework of the lisbon strategy, the recognition of the specific nature of social services of general interest and the need to clarify the legal framework applicable to such services and to make it clearer and more predictable. in this context, i fully agree with the idea that it is not a question of opposing economic rules to the concepts of the general interest and social cohesion. our actions are part of the effort to achieve synergy between the economic and social spheres, as the report emphasises. in the event of tensions, however, the general interest must prevail over the application of the internal market rules and over competition, as commission president barroso recently pointed out in the european parliament. the report emphasises quality in both personal social services and in the sector's jobs. parliament is right to insist on this point. we must strike the right balance between the protection that operators expect and the quality that users and the authorities that finance these services legitimately demand. here too, mr barroso provided important information and recalled that any framework for services of general interest at european union level must be based on the objectives of high quality, price-quality balance and universal accessibility. the commission wanted to launch a wide consultation with the member states and other interested parties on this subject. it will use the results of this consultation and, of course, the opinion delivered by the european parliament to determine the next course of action. i will personally devote all my energy to ensuring the necessary legal certainty and the development of quality social services, while at the same time being compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. it is in this spirit that the commission is examining the possibility of submitting a legislative proposal, as announced in its communication of april 2006. i take note of the european parliament's request to set a clear deadline for the conclusion of the consultation announced by the commission. i can confirm that the consultation will be completed by the end of the first half of 2007. i also welcome the parliament's initiative to convene a forum to accompany the conduct of this process. i shall be happy to represent the commission in person at its meetings.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. president. - ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on the environment, since i was the shadow rapporteur on this measure, which has approved a text on this subject. i have tried to work on that case in order to define a field of discussion which did not immediately and simply reproduce the field which characterized the bolkestein directive. my group and i were opposed to that directive, because it aimed at the commercialisation of services in the general sense. while maintaining this contradiction, i wanted to work on defining, in the field of social and citizenship services, what the services in question must be for europe, considering that they must have a characteristic of universality, accessibility for all, democratic management, and therefore be genuine citizenship services, that is, something different from market services, which therefore also require a different and separate legal basis. this text was supported by the committee on the environment and i think it can also be usefully used in the debate on the measure in general.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. they are part of the european social model that the european union wants to build and a priority objective of the lisbon strategy. all this calls into question the complex relationship that must be established between the individual, society and the state, a relationship that must be established in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. social services of general interest must ensure equal value and equal opportunities for all people, by affirming in practice the primacy of the individual over institutions and of civil society over political power. we must therefore overcome all ambiguity and provide legal certainty so that europe can develop a system of social services which is sensitive to the needs of the individual and which makes the most of all the resources of civil society. parliament must be the privileged forum for a wide-ranging debate on these issues. the report we are voting on, the result of a compromise agreed by the majority of parliament, is the starting point of a debate which will look very closely at the legislative proposal which the european commission intends to make to us.
, in writing. enterprise, the ability to undertake, is the decisive factor in the development of man and society. and the company is attentive to the products, the organization, the marketing, the design, the production processes. but the central factor of the enterprise is human capital, which must always be promoted and protected, and human capital is the result of an education: risk, confidence, creativity, the ability to learn, the taste for usefulness and beauty. the road to competitiveness in the economy starts with the ability to exploit these dimensions but also to exercise a strong social responsibility to protect, of course, the product, but above all the work and the worker. exercising this responsibility as an autonomous and voluntary decision of the entrepreneur creates a virtuous circle between enterprise, capital and labour, helping to compete effectively in the global market.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that we can have this evening the final debate on the road map for gender equality, which has seen the committee on women's rights engaged in recent months in analysing a very interesting document which has been handed to us by the commission. it was significant that the work on the roadmap was also carried out by commissioner špidla, also because this is one of those issues that is never over once and for all. in examining again all the issues that have been put to us, we have had the opportunity to focus our attention on some fundamental issues. we have started from the principle underlying all our behaviour, that the promotion of human rights must be given priority in all policies and therefore, as a natural consequence, there must be zero tolerance at european level. (the president cut the speaker off) in this roadmap, we have started by stating above all that the promotion of human rights is the basis... (the president cut off the speaker again) i'll take it from here. we started with the promotion of human rights and as a natural consequence we come to the conclusion that, by putting the promotion of human rights at the centre, we must also establish a zero tolerance policy towards the non-respect of human rights. unfortunately, we know that the theme of violence still applies to europe today in an important and significant way: the data we have show that one in three women will experience violence in her lifetime. we also know that 52% of the european population is made up of women, which leads us to believe that even today, in our europe, there is a very high percentage of people who experience violence in their lifetime. this calls for special attention from the union. the other point we considered was the issue of poverty. here again, a large number of reports, including previous ones, show that women are at risk of poverty, especially when we consider that 85% of single-parent families have a woman as head of the family and that on average this is considered the condition in which it is easiest to approach the poverty level. in this respect too, it was felt that one of the main actions we can take at european union level is to strengthen all those policies which can guarantee women economic independence, that is to say policies which facilitate access to the world of work. the difference in employment between men and women is still important - although the situation varies from country to country. when women are employed, it has been found that on average women receive 15 per cent less pay than men for equal work. so, even in the face of this reality, we need policies and vigilance to ensure that this does not happen again. the third and also consequential issue which was considered was the need to reconcile family life with working life. so, to make it possible to reconcile family and working life, a series of policies have been identified which could make a huge contribution in this field, on the one hand at european level, but also with guidelines to be given to the member states, touching on the issue of the costs of motherhood and fatherhood, which must be borne by the whole community, in a europe where fewer and fewer children are born, in order to arrive at the historical but still unresolved issue of the need for more services, more accessible, more flexible and intended not only for the care of children but also for the disabled, the seriously ill and the elderly. to do this, we believe it is essential to integrate gender policy into the union's budget and into community programmes such as the structural funds, the seventh framework programme and others, while also pursuing policies directed towards the outside, believing that all accession policies, but also neighbourhood policy, foreign policy and development policy cannot be separated from those aimed at respecting women's rights, and tackling last but not least all the problems related to immigration, in relation to which - from cases of reduction to slavery to those of polygamy and genital mutilation - there must be a rigour on the part of the union which, as i said at the beginning, must reach zero tolerance.
i thank you very much, commissioner spidla, for giving substance to the old saying that 'there is a sea between saying and doing', but undoubtedly, as you said, parliament and the commission will work together to close this gap.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank amalia sartori for her excellent work. it is a fortunate coincidence that we are approving the timetable just after 8 march, as president záborská said. on 8 march, international women's day, celebrated in many countries around the world but not all. last year we had reports of police charges in turkey; this year we have heard that young women in tehran who were preparing to celebrate the 8th of march were arrested. like labour day, international women's day also grew out of the socialist movement and became international. march 8, 1908, had been the day of bread and roses. fifteen thousand women in new york had marched to demand bread, which meant wages and jobs, but also roses, which meant the right to vote, free time, children's rights, dignity and respect. two years later, in copenhagen, the socialist women's international will propose an international day to be permanently fixed in the calendar, in memory of new york. a hundred years later, if we look at the six areas of action in the table, we find a remarkable coincidence between them and the demands of the women who marched under the slogan "bread and roses". they demanded bread, meaning work and wages, we demand equal economic independence; we are not asking for a vote, we are asking for a balanced presence in the places of representation. they asked for respect for minors, we ask for child services; they asked for roses, that is, quality of life, we ask for the eradication of all forms of violence to give quality and dignity to life. but then, we were not talking about eliminating gender stereotypes. today i think one of the reasons why we still need to ask for "bread and roses" is because of the persistence of gender stereotypes in everyday life. i think that the fight against stereotypes should be given priority. achieving this objective will make it easier, or perhaps only less difficult, to promote equality between men and women in all areas.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, while i congratulate mrs sartori on the quality of her report, i believe that, in principle, respect for women's rights should be regarded as a sine qua non for assessing whether a candidate country is in favour of joining the european union or not. i would say that the copenhagen criteria should explicitly refer to respect for women's rights. we reiterated this last month in this house when we spoke about the situation of women in turkey. at the dawn of the third millennium, women in europe still have to fight for the right to literacy, equal pay, access to high public office, political participation and physical integrity. in this connection, i fully support the call on the member states to condemn severely doctors who, for purely economic reasons or because of a dangerous and deviant principle of respect for the cultures of others, indulge in painful and humiliating tribal practices, such as female genital mutilation. as regards the trafficking of women by criminal organizations for the purpose of prostitution, i strongly support the call for those member states which have not yet done so to ratify the additional protocol to the so-called palermo protocol to combat the trafficking of migrants. in this connection, back in 2004, i suggested to the council and the commission that an observatory on the phenomenon of organised mafia crime in the european union be set up, precisely to analyse in depth the size and causes of criminal networks in europe and to propose measures to be taken to combat them. it is not necessary to hide, madam president, that one of the most profitable activities of the various mafias is that of human trafficking. three years have passed since then, but europe has not moved on to action on this front, but has instead stopped short of good intentions. i hope at least the equality roadmap has a better chance.
i thank mr sartori, all the ladies and the commissioner for this interesting discussion, in which i have participated with great enthusiasm, because i really believe that 'bread and roses' are indispensable for all of us, men and women. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls for the report by ms katalin lévai, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the commission recommendation of 18 may 2005 on the crossborder collective management of copyright and related rights in the field of licensed online music services (2005/737/ec) (a6-0053/2007) (2006/2008 ((ini)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many interesting aspects to the proposal, but for reasons of time i shall dwell on three points. first, the energy. the european council has made a significant contribution to this and i hope that the commission will be able to translate these directives into concrete and effective proposals. the commitment is for everyone and i take this opportunity to reiterate that the eu, which requires the member states to make a great effort to achieve the objectives, should set a good example: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly: lisbon, please. the programmes launched this year for lifelong learning are certainly good tools, but action needs to be stepped up to reduce the gap between education and entry into the world of work, especially for young people and researchers who would otherwise be forced to leave our borders. it is also important to encourage the mobility of young people, including informal learning, to simulate family policies to meet the demographic challenge, to facilitate access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, including through microcredit programmes, and to eu funding, especially for research and innovation. thirdly: multilingualism is a good thing. i hope that the commission will honour the commitments it made in its november 2005 communication, which, i quote, 'promote multilingualism in european society, in the business world and in the commission itself'. it is unacceptable that documents intended for all eu citizens, such as websites and, above all, information documents, with the exception of calls for proposals, relating to european programmes, should be available only in two or three languages, thus effectively limiting the access of many small local bodies to eu funding. an example for all of us: the documents for access to the lingua programme for the promotion of multilingualism are in english, french and german.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i can neither express my enthusiasm nor my disappointment, but i think it is appropriate to acknowledge the realism with which the commissioner and the commission have concluded this negotiating phase. we would all have preferred a general agreement which also dealt with ownership, control and the opening up of the american internal market. it is clear, however, that this preference is at odds with the very important fact that the negotiations in question were pursued with two objectives: one inside and one outside. this objective is based on a need and an interest: the commission has also expressed its concern about the need to put an end to discrimination within the european union, that is to say, to have accepted - something which the court of justice has rejected - that there are such distinct markets and the possibility of bilateral agreements, which create situations of injustice within the community. it is clear that this need for europe as a whole to put an end to this discrimination weakens our ability to negotiate with the united states. it follows realistically that this first part is absolutely 'internal' and in this light i think it is very easy to anticipate the result of any impact analysis: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. but the fact is that we are reducing monopoly powers in favour of equal openness for all, in all countries and throughout europe. i think that this objective should be regarded as a positive fact. secondly, i would like to draw attention to the security aspect alone and to the way in which security is understood in the sense of security as well as safety, both in relation to property and in relation to the opening up of the internal market. it is clear that this can be a good reason or excuse for the united states. we must remove every element of excuse. the convergence of safety and security rules must be a preeminent factor in solving this problem, since its solution would overturn any other argument about the insecurity of foreign ownership of companies in the united states or the insecurity of the opening up of the internal market. i would remind you that in the united states the entire security is borne by the state budget and from this point of view too it would be useful for europe to rethink how it deals with the subject.
i have received a motion for a resolution. within the meaning of article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
the rapporteur. i would like to propose an oral amendment. where it says 'requests the commission to prepare initiatives under the media 2007 programme' replace the word 'to prepare' with the word 'to encourage', as the commission can only encourage programmes but not prepare them.
the european parliament has been a party to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons since the end of the cold war in 1970, and has played a decisive role in limiting the spread of nuclear weapons and in reducing their number. the treaty has historically been of fundamental importance for the prevention of nuclear proliferation and disarmament and was therefore extended indefinitely and unconditionally in 1995. as the presidency of the council stated, the treaty is based on three principles: disarmament, non-proliferation and peaceful use of nuclear weapons. it is on the basis of these three principles, modelled on the international situation today, that the treaty in question must be given a new impetus, and this in view of the fact that the balance achieved, with the application by more than 180 nations, is now in danger. the international community today faces new threats to its security. the principle that the treaty is the single, indispensable multilateral instrument for maintaining and strengthening international peace, security and stability must be strongly reaffirmed, as it establishes the legal framework for preventing the further proliferation of nuclear weapons. the european security strategy and the european strategy on weapons of mass destruction stress the importance of nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament and the treaty itself, to which all member states are signatories. i think it is essential that the european parliament has a clear idea of its position for the future. the european union must continue to commit itself to the implementation of the treaty, presenting itself united at the vienna meeting which will prepare the 2010 review conference. that is why a united vote by the european parliament would be essential, as a strong signal to the council and the commission, so that they can have the necessary strength in vienna to play an active role in strengthening the current non-proliferation regime. in order to achieve the objectives set out in the treaty, the european union must contribute to a structured and balanced review of its functioning by the review conference. this must include the implementation of the commitments made by states and the identification of areas and means through which further progress can be achieved, as well as further development of the verification system ensuring the exclusively peaceful use of nuclear energy by non-armed and recognised states. the principle that all possible cooperation in the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes must be strengthened on the basis of the treaty must be reaffirmed, and it is in this field that the european union can make a decisive contribution as the leading research and production body. the international situation requires us to unite our efforts in the field of nonproliferation, disarmament and the peaceful use of atomic energy. finally, i hope that europe will have a unified strategy also for the fight against terrorist organisations which might have access to such weapons.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear crises in north korea and iran have once again thrown the world into fear and suspicion among nations and peoples. the international debate on nuclear disarmament has once again raised questions about the future of mankind. we must restart negotiations with iran, avoiding any military action which would only aggravate the crisis. it is therefore essential to revive the discussions on the renewal of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty in 2010. the european union must exert appropriate political, economic and trade pressure on countries such as india, pakistan, iran, korea and other countries such as china and the united states. the european union also has a great deal of urgency in promoting a nuclear-free mediterranean, which we must transform with appropriate economic and social policies into a sea of peace, a zone totally denuclearized. that is why we must apply the pressure we have been talking about to israel, which certainly has the right to promote its security but which cannot be based on nuclear fear and the annihilation of other peoples. in addition, president bush's recent decision to install missile launchers in the czech republic or new military nuclear monitoring facilities in poland only worsen military relations with russia. a decision, that of president bush, which i condemn without hesitation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that a renewed commitment to combating the proliferation of thermonuclear weapons is necessary, as mr schulz said in his speech, but at the same time we must begin to say more clearly that it is not enough to prevent proliferation, but that the battle for general disarmament must be resumed. in fact, there will never be a true planetary democracy if a few countries can dominate the world, because they have the power to destroy it repeatedly. the countries of the atomic club, and particularly britain and france today, will have the strength and the moral right to prevent the proliferation of others if they themselves begin to disarm and if they put the banning of all weapons of mass destruction on the agenda. unfortunately, this is not the direction we are taking, if we take account of the unilateral and even anti-nato policy of the united states of america, which has secretly negotiated with some european countries to introduce their anti-missile programme, against which we are presenting a specific amendment. we must therefore block these plans, saying 'no' to proliferation, but 'yes' to a european initiative moving in the direction of general disarmament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are discussing is of the utmost importance and it puts the question of social europe back at the centre. this has been a long-standing concern and it is therefore worth saying that investing in and expanding high-quality childcare, better education, good day care and new child benefits would be a clear sign of political will to move in the right direction. it is quite clear that to be on the side of children with appropriate social and economic policies means not only to think seriously about their future but also to help create new economic and social conditions for families and would make it possible for many parents and especially many women to enter the labour market. as i have said, this could be a response to one of the challenges facing europe, namely demographic change, because it would boost the labour market, improve european competitiveness and enrich our societies. the commissioner therefore needs more courage and foresight to overcome the delays in individual member states and hence the commitment that parliament and the commission must take with strength and determination to achieve the objectives set out.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 9 may 1950 robert schuman, in his historic statement to the press in the hall of watches in paris, said: "europe will not be achieved all at once, nor will it be built all at once; it will be built on concrete achievements which create de facto solidarity". since the treaties were signed 50 years ago, many common policies and achievements have been made. but there is no political europe, despite the increasingly evident need to achieve it with respect for the national states. without a foreign and defence policy, the union will remain weak: its negotiating weight in international relations does not correspond to the size and weight of our economy. today, our first objective is to resume the debate on a new treaty - for the new treaty - without forgetting the rejection of two founding states and the ratification by the majority of member states. a union of 27 cannot function with rules that were already restrictive for the 15. the improvement of the legislative function, the decision-making deadlock, the excessive complexity of the rules must be resolved and the roles clarified. the question of our values and their historical and cultural roots, from greco-roman history to the judeo-christian traditions, to the conquest of the secular and liberal state, must also be taken up and reaffirmed. only through dialogue between cultures can the future be guaranteed: but to dialogue with others, we must first know and recognize ourselves. the future of europe cannot be ignored if we do not recognize that the present is different from the present of fifty years ago. the phenomenon of immigration, and particularly illegal immigration, is reaching dangerous limits and has changed the face of our cities. the presence of different cultures requires us to make extra efforts to ensure dialogue and to enforce compliance with the rules. a common policy and the willingness of the member states are needed to guarantee borders, internal order and respect for human rights. the phenomenon of immigration must be tackled in the spirit of democracy and the rule of law, with respect for the dignity of persons and common rules: there is no true culture without the recognition of the dignity of the person. another aspect of our future is the mutual respect of trade rules. the phenomena of counterfeiting, dumping, the question of trademark origin, mutual respect for the rules are problems which must be tackled and resolved decisively if we are to avoid an unfair market destroying the union's productive sectors and also harming emerging or developing countries in the long term, with disastrous consequences for employment and social policies. the liberalization of world trade must go hand in hand with the guarantee that the welfare policies won by european workers will be maintained and can be applied gradually but inexorably also in those countries which today lack them. "the contribution which an organised and vital europe can make to civilization is indispensable to the maintenance of peaceful relations", declared schuman in 1950, and he stated: "world peace can only be safeguarded by creative efforts commensurate with the dangers that threaten us". the threat of terrorism, fuelled by jihadist fundamentalism, looms over the world: we need our efforts today to be bold and creative more than ever.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear link between the previous discussion on the berlin declaration and the present one, since the europe of results must be able to act and without a constitution it cannot do so particularly effectively. mr president, we acknowledge the german presidency for having been able to lead the council to make commitments on emission reductions and renewable energy, in a visible and quite clear way, rejecting the nuclear offensive of president chirac, a chirac in decline, of whom you can be sure we will not miss at all. while we welcome the results of the summit - because it could have been much worse - we believe that the difficulties are only just beginning, because when it comes to turning words into deeds, ambiguity in the achievement of the objectives will certainly arise. for example, we know now that unilaterally reducing emissions by 20% by 2020 will not achieve the goal of keeping the temperature rise below 2°c. commissioner verheugen, i do not think this is a very brave effort, because if the commitments on fair efficiency and renewable energy were to be respected, we would already have a 24% reduction in emissions. so the unilateral target of 30% emissions reduction was perfectly feasible and would have radically increased our credibility internationally. moreover, commissioner, when i think of your role on the issue of emission reductions, renewable energy and cars and the tremendous struggles within the commission on all these issues, your speech today seemed to me frankly a little green wash. the achievement of these aims faces many adversaries. first of all the administrations of many national governments - which represent the real bureaucratic burden of the european union, apart from the commission officials - followed of course by the lobbies of the big european industrial companies which, despite the fine words, are absolutely against a real development of eco-efficiency of renewable energies, because enel, eon and edf know very well that reducing dependence on fossil energy means freeing the european consumer more from them too. we are waiting, obviously with interest and a certain trepidation, for the commission's proposals, partly because we are convinced that this is the time to be revolutionary and radical. that is why we are meeting in berlin and i hope, mr steinmeier, that you will come to see us and draw up a plan with ten ideas, which we have already announced several times, first of all a climate pact with the same characteristics as the stability pact and which provides for clear rules, serious and rapid sanctions and very realistic incentives. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to add that we are very concerned about the rumours circulating in the council and the commission about the possibility of adopting the new rules resulting from the commitments made by the brussels council by the procedure of article 175 (2), which excludes the european parliament and requires unanimity in the council. if that were to happen, it would be a mockery to all the european citizens who are so enthusiastic today. i hope that will not happen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commitment to unilaterally reduce carbon emissions by 20% is a step in the right direction, but we should have aimed at the more ambitious target of 30% mandatory by 2020. today renewable energy accounts for just 7% of the eu's energy mix and it is clear that the voluntary target of 12% by 2010 has not worked. that is why it is important to set binding targets and to have certain rules for their implementation. to those who complain about the cost of developing clean technologies, this investment will give europe leadership in the sector, creating new and better jobs in line with the lisbon strategy. fifty years after the treaty of rome, it is time to relaunch a common energy policy, also to reduce europe's dependence on the outside world. we made a choice: now we must be ready to support it, knowing that the path will be difficult. but the cost of inaction for europe and the world would be much higher, and it would be the weaker social strata that would pay the most.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while europe is not only asking questions but is beginning to give concrete answers and to make commitments to energy saving and the adoption of alternative sources and is wondering how to deal with the emergency of climate change, at the heart of europe, a vast and technologically advanced area, decisive for the social and economic future of one of the member states, the po valley, has been needlessly calling for infrastructural measures for some time to solve the problem of pollution caused by the now more than emergency situation of congestion of the communication routes. in the crucial hours of morning and evening, satellite images depict padania as a huge line of cars and trucks, producing tons and tons of polluting gases, with absurd fuel consumption. while this has been happening for decades and these measures are being called for, rome is robbing not for the inhabitants, who are exceptional and honest people, but for the centralist power palace of the old state. it is discussing, as in byzantium, the reforms of the electoral mechanisms and letting this situation continue to produce failures. and then there's the second aspect of the climate emergency, which is water. not only the south of our country, but also the po valley is in danger of dying of thirst. i would like to draw europe's attention to the water situation in the po valley because of the very serious consequences this could have for the european breadbasket, which is represented by this macro-region so important for the productive future of our country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this was a positive european council because it went straight to the heart of the problems affecting the citizens. in the era of globalisation, people increasingly need a europe that can answer the questions that national states are no longer able to answer. only the union can tackle the big issues of climate change, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, immigration, energy freedom, including the revival of nuclear power, unemployment, the confrontation with the new major economic and commercial powers of east asia, not to mention peace in the mediterranean area and the middle east. that is why we need a new constitutional treaty which establishes powers and capacity for action. i therefore support the proposal, mr president, to produce a text which preserves the substance and incorporates the values of the text signed in rome and then rejected in france and the netherlands. a text that refers to the judeo-christian roots from which the union's action to promote the centrality of the rights of the person and the citizen draws its nourishment. mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to make a concrete proposal to the german presidency, and i would urge it with conviction that the member states, together with parliament and the commission, should launch a major media campaign in the coming months to make the citizens aware of what the european union really is, to make them understand that the union is not the costly and oppressive bureaucracy of brussels but, as emerged at the summit on 8 and 9 march, an institution that represents the certainty of a better future for half a billion people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after this last european council we can say that this is the europe we like: the european union is the europe of choice, the europe of vision, the europe which looks after its own interests and projects its role in the world. this kidney rush was necessary, though not obvious, but it was very healthy. it's not the first time we've been on the verge of rolling down and climbing up the slope, doing our best: we have done that with the customs union, the single market and the euro. today we do it with energy and fighting climate change. let's not stop, that would be an unforgivable self-goal. the commission should do its part by translating the council's decisions into legislative proposals which parliament will work on in depth. the council shall evaluate national plans by majority vote. above all, let us not stop at the road of political europe. as the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, said in this chamber last week, the constitution is not a whim, a vanity or a trick. without new rules, without legal personality, without a political and social soul and without a charter of rights, europe is in danger of declining again. that is why we are anxiously awaiting the manifesto of 25 march. mrs merkel said yesterday that the manifesto will not talk about god, and that is right, because if you are a sincere catholic and christian, god takes you to his heart. but the manifesto cannot but speak of the constitution. after the successes of the past week, it would be disappointing if we were to make a general manifesto which did not speak of europe's achievements, which did not mention the great achievements of these fifty years and, above all, which did not outline this great goal which is the european constitution.
mr president, my group made a mistake by not calling for two rollcall votes in time. i ask you kindly, if there are no objections, to authorize us to do so now, even if we are out of time. the original text would be paragraph 1, the second part of the split vote on the voting list, and, again in the original text, paragraph 9, which provides for a vote in separate parts: we would ask for a roll-call vote again if you would agree and humbly forgive us for the mistake we have made.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the leichtfried report seeks to extend the powers of the european aviation safety agency, giving it control not only over aviation but also over the behaviour of airlines. the agency shall be responsible for the renewal and issuing of certificates and licences and for monitoring the application of uniform safety standards. it will also be able to impose fiscal fines if the security is not properly applied. the report also pays particular attention to the agency's recruitment experience since 2002; in this regard, easa has experienced difficulties in recruiting the competent and experienced staff it needs due to various factors, including language skills; the rapporteur's desire to tackle the problem with new solutions, such as exploiting the possibilities offered by the staff regulations of officials of the european union, is therefore to be welcomed. however, today i was surprised to learn that only four italians are members of easa, while 45 are french and 37 are german. i urge easa and the commission to tackle and solve this representativeness problem too, which is an unjustifiable imbalance to the detriment of italy.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am pleased to be here today to speak about euro-mediterranean relations and to be present at the debate on the report of the committee on international trade on the establishment of the euro-mediterranean free trade area. the report by mr arif contains many interesting statements on eu-mediterranean relations. the eu has an interest in a safe, politically stable and economically developed mediterranean area. historical and geographical factors play a role, but so do current developments such as the growing threat of terrorism and the close economic interconnections. almost every day we are confronted with the fact that the regions of north africa and the middle east have not yet found political and economic stability. the commission's draft resolution clearly identifies the main problems underlying this. the middle east conflict leaves traces in political, economic and social life that have a lasting impact on the region. the rapid growth of the population in the southern mediterranean countries and the resulting economic slowdown are leaving more and more people without access to education and jobs. young people in particular see no prospects for life in their home countries. they try to emigrate to europe and/or become easy prey for the supposedly 'simple solutions' that radical thinking offers them. the governments of some mediterranean countries are reluctant to make the necessary political reforms and are denying their populations political participation. but the draft resolution also recognises that the barcelona process has made considerable progress in this region by, quote, creating political, economic, social and cultural links between the northern and southern mediterranean. the barcelona process has not been able to resolve the middle east conflict, but that is not its task either. but it has another added value which should not be underestimated: as one of the few forums, it regularly brings israel and its arab neighbours to the same table! under the roof of barcelona, there is a chance for practical exchange and cooperation, even in times of political differences. it is up to the participating countries themselves to take advantage of this opportunity. let me give you two examples. despite the controversy over the election result in the palestinian territories, there was constructive participation by palestinian and israeli representatives in the meeting of senior euromed officials and the euromed committee in march 2006. the second example: at the special meeting of the euromed senior officials and the euromed committee on 22 february 2006 on the occasion of the 'cartoon debate', there were constructive proposals from both the eu and the arab group. the presence of both the israeli and the arab delegations was also noteworthy. the barcelona process is a tool which we must not abandon, even if the ambitious objectives set out in the barcelona declaration in 1995 - the creation of a common area of peace and stability, the creation of a common prosperity zone, the development of close partnership in the social, cultural and interpersonal spheres - have not been achieved. despite its shortcomings, it can help to transform the mediterranean region from a 'sea of confrontation' into a 'sea of cooperation', as former german foreign minister fischer once put it. the barcelona process not only brings together government representatives and academic elites on a regular basis, but also brings together the people and civil societies on both sides of the mediterranean. the 'anna lindh foundation for intercultural dialogue' is contributing to this and this commitment is to be intensified in the future. an important body of euro-mediterranean cooperation is the 'euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly (empa) ' which was established in 2003 and which is expected to have a growing influence on the promotion of democratic structures and human rights in all euro-med countries. the summit on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the barcelona process in november 2005 showed that, despite differences in views on the scope and the concrete form of the cooperation, the will of the eu and the mediterranean countries to cooperate closely continues to exist. the work programme adopted by the summit for the next five years sets out concrete objectives in all areas of the barcelona process, such as political, economic and cultural cooperation and migration. the conditions for further cooperation are therefore in place. i am not going to go into detail. there is no stability without economic progress. we all know that, and the euromed framework is no exception. this is why the euro-med foreign ministers, at their summit in tampere at the end of november 2006, reaffirmed that the creation of a euro-med free trade area by 2010 remains the common objective of all euro-med partners. is this adherence to a goal agreed on over ten years ago reasonable or just stubborn? first of all, i think that 2010 has become a symbol of the importance that the euromed partners attach to a free trade area. in addition, much has been done in the economic sphere to make a free trade area seem feasible: the bilateral free trade areas of the association agreements, which are currently in force between the eu and almost all the mediterranean countries with the exception of syria, are being implemented satisfactorily. the aim is to gradually integrate the mediterranean region into the european economy. the german presidency will do all it can to support the european commission in gaining momentum and making further progress in the ongoing negotiations. i would mention in particular the following areas: the gradual liberalization of services and the right of establishment; the progressive liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fishery products; the creation of a dispute settlement mechanism and the convergence of legislation, with particular emphasis on the approximation of technical legislation. the aim is to provide the mediterranean countries with easier access to the eu's internal market, as the eu is their most important trading partner, accounting for over 50% of their trade. this development is of course linked to the progress made in the implementation of the above mentioned association agreements. other challenges will follow, such as the competitiveness of the mediterranean partners' businesses. the integration process has also gained a major impetus among the mediterranean countries themselves with the agadir agreement, which has been in force since 2004 and aims to create a free trade area between the mediterranean countries. the eu promotes this south-south cooperation by, for example, providing financial support to the secretariat. we hope that other countries will soon join the agadir agreement, along with egypt, jordan, morocco and tunisia. liberalisation and economic reforms do not go without effect on the socioeconomic situation of a country. the impact of changes in this area depends above all on the controlled and targeted implementation of the necessary structural changes. the eu is actively supporting the mediterranean countries in this process. for example, in the context of the barcelona process, it has for years been providing substantial funds for restructuring and modernisation in the employment and training sectors and for modernising transport infrastructure. the regional eu funding programmes such as euromed market, anima, euromed innovation help to improve the framework conditions for investment and entrepreneurial initiatives, thus strengthening the private sector. in addition, the european investment bank's mediterranean facility (femip) is a well-equipped and proven support instrument, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. femip also supports environmental, infrastructure and training projects. as you know, the big hurdle for emerging market economies is convincing investors that they expect a stable, profitable environment. this is particularly important because foreign direct investment is urgently needed. this is a subject on which the mediterranean countries need our special support. you've asked for it repeatedly. i am therefore particularly pleased that an ad hoc working group on investment will be set up during the german presidency on 23 april this year. the euromed partners will work together to identify the main problems and to seek ways and means of improving investment flows in the mediterranean. i am not going to go into detail. in conclusion, i would like to stress that i share your view that uncontrolled economic growth is not the only way forward, but that social and environmental aspects must also be taken into account. this is of course also true of eu-mediterranean relations. the german presidency will therefore hold attractive conferences on both topics with high-level participation. the european council will be holding a meeting in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the future of the european union. the common area of security and prosperity that the barcelona process aims at cannot be achieved in a sustainable way without effective social dialogue and new jobs. rather, there is a growing risk that high unemployment, especially among young people, will threaten social stability and worsen the prospects for social and economic development in the southern neighbouring countries. secondly, a conference on energy efficiency and renewable energies will also be held in berlin on 19 april 2007. a forward-looking energy policy is essential for sustainable economic development and the conservation of resources. ministers from the eu's southern and eastern neighbours, as well as representatives of industry and international financial institutions, will discuss how to achieve a secure and environmentally friendly energy supply in the euro-med area. i am not going to go into detail. you see, our activities are also in line with the draft resolution and we want to pursue the three main objectives of the barcelona process at the same time. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the environment and the protection of the environment. it is in the interests of all of us that we do not slacken in our efforts to achieve this goal. we all - governments, parliaments and other political leaders - are called upon to do this and can certainly achieve a great deal if we join forces. thank you for your attention. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. mr president, any discussion of european-mediterranean relations is first and foremost a discussion of a shared political challenge. today, the mediterranean region and europe form a strategic and economic area under construction. at a time when we are rediscovering our shared cultural and political heritage, we are cementing our future economic collaboration, because we want once again to play a key role in creating an area of stability, peace and prosperity. the vast euro-mediterranean area is the home to two interdependent entities: the 27-member european union, and the mediterranean region with its more than 250 million inhabitants. we are interdependent politically as partners trying to bring peace to the middle east and elsewhere in the mediterranean, and working to promote pluralism and democracy. we are interdependent economically: euro-med trade relations are healthy and growing. today, mediterranean countries’ exports to the eu 27 have grown by 10% per year on average between 2000 and 2006. imports from the eu 27 have also increased, but at a slower pace of 4%. the eu trade surplus has been reduced substantially and in 2006 trade was basically balanced. however, we are interdependent in other ways: environmentally, sharing more than 46 000 kilometres of mediterranean coastline, and jointly confronting challenges linked to climate change, water and the depollution of the sea. we are interdependent with respect to energy, too, thanks to the flows of oil and gas resources that originate in, and transit, the mediterranean. we are also interdependent demographically, given the need for dialogue with the countries of north africa on how to handle legal and illegal migration. finally, we are interdependent culturally because of the urgently required in-depth dialogue between cultures and religions.in response to this interdependence, the eu has set up the neighbourhood policy and the barcelona process: complementary and coherent frameworks for policy and cooperation. within these frameworks, we have association agreements and neighbourhood action plans which have been concluded with almost all countries in the region. the most recent agreement with egypt was adopted at the eu-egypt association council on 6 march. the euro-mediterranean free trade area, as has been mentioned, is gradually taking shape and will act as an interface between an increasingly globalised world and europe’s open, inclusive regionalism. we are building on our liberalised trade in goods to liberalise trade in services and business establishment in a way that encourages much-needed regional economic integration. active euro-mediterranean institutions have been set up such as the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. the year 2007 will certainly be an important one in our relations with a region that is undergoing major change, which has great expectations of europe and for which a close relationship with the union is a major priority. the year 2007 will be the first year of operation of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. our work with our partners is animated by the conviction that, if changes are to last, they must come from within society. in the context of the neighbourhood policy, the gradual implementation of political and economic reforms is opening the road to a rapprochement between europe and the mediterranean countries. if we are to assist our neighbours in implementing challenging reform programmes, we must have something appealing to offer to them. we have already offered to strengthen our trade relations. we could also work to relax formalities related to the granting of visas. the proposals contained in the commission’s communication require significant political will, as well as economic and financial commitments on an equivalent scale. the european parliament’s contribution will be vital to ensure that europe maintains a coherent policy towards the region and to generate political and financial support for the successful implementation of cooperation policies in the mediterranean region. in the context of the barcelona process, the german and portuguese presidencies, as has already been said, will be working closely with the commission in order to take forward the course of action adopted at the barcelona summit in november 2005. activities planned for 2007 include: a conference on social affairs in march in berlin, the aim of which will be to add a social dimension to our partnership; a conference on migration, organised by the portuguese presidency during the second half of the year – the first conference of its kind in the region which will provide a forum to discuss joint approaches to combating illegal immigration and managing legal immigration more effectively; a conference on research and university education, at which the commission will announce the creation of scholarships for university students in the region; and finally, a euro-med trade ministerial meeting, which the portuguese presidency is organising in lisbon, to take stock of our progress towards our goal of a euro-med free trade area. the year 2007 will also be important because it will be the year that we define and implement far-reaching action plans to help create a brighter future for the region: the horizon 2020 plan, whose aim is to depollute the mediterranean sea; the istanbul action plan on the role of women in society, adopted in november 2006; the practical implementation of the tampere programme, adopted during the conference of euro-mediterranean ministers of foreign affairs; and the action plan for implementing the free-trade area that is the subject of mr arif’s report, to which i would like to turn now. i should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the members who have contributed to making this motion for a resolution relevant and complete. the resolution refers to the mixed results of the barcelona process as regards trade liberalisation and economic integration, while highlighting the complexity of the task and the socioeconomic constraints, both structural and linked to the current international context, which characterised this neighbouring region of the eu. indeed, the mixed results in terms of prosperity derived from the establishment of an fta are not always attributable to the process itself or to its weaknesses, but are often due to a number of structural constraints inherent in this region, which have somehow prevented the process of economic integration realising its full potential. however, despite these constraints, there has been an increase of trade following the liberalisation under the barcelona process: exports from mediterranean partners to the eu have doubled since 1995; eu exports have increased by 60% and the bilateral trade deficit of the mediterranean countries has decreased from 20% to 10% in the same period. the creation of a euro-med fta remains an objective both of barcelona and of our neighbourhood policy. in both contexts, various initiatives have been developed to deepen and support liberalisation in the fields of both further tariff liberalisation and the elimination of non-tariff measures. new negotiations in the areas of agriculture, services and investments have been launched since the marrakesh trade ministerial last year, and our european neighbourhood policy action plans set up priority actions, particularly as regards the elimination of regulatory and non-tariff barriers. from the beginning, the barcelona process has foreseen accompanying and mitigating measures to the euro-med fta. these include: asymmetry in tariff dismantling; a gradual approach concerning liberalisation – for example, the agriculture sector is starting only now once a reasonable period followed industrial liberalisation; and last but not least, the provision of significant aid in support of economic and structural reforms and of sustainable rural development, earlier through meda, currently through the new enp instrument. our priority remains to enhance sustainable development and competitiveness in the mediterranean region through the elimination of obstacles to trade and by promoting regional integration, investments, regulatory convergence towards the eu internal market rules, research and innovation and the reinforcement of infrastructure and networks in the region. in a nutshell, this means working towards the shared prosperity which is the objective of the barcelona process and our neighbourhood policy. we will make every effort to ensure that this vision becomes a reality. honourable members, at the heart of our relations with our mediterranean partner countries is our very deep and strong desire to promote security, growth and stability in the region. however, there is also the abiding conviction that we are taking part in an even more ambitious project: constructing a region and affirming our common goals and values. the european commission is counting on the european parliament to rise to these great challenges with the help of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly and i look forward to our continued working together. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs has overwhelmingly adopted an opinion on the arif report, which focuses mainly on political issues and therefore also deals with the broader issue of the mediterranean situation. the committee on foreign affairs has dealt with six main points. the first concerns political commitment to the creation of a free trade area, aimed at ensuring peace, democratisation, respect for human rights, equality between women and men and the promotion of intercultural and interreligious dialogue. the second point concerns the urgent need for the european union to work towards the creation of a zone of security and stability in the whole region, including the defence of the full sovereignty of lebanon and the commitment to peaceful coexistence between the state of israel and a future palestinian state. the third point is the need to provide financial support for the reconstruction of these areas, which have suffered from very serious periods of violent conflict, indeed, of outright war. we are naturally calling for the creation of a free trade area to be a first step towards ending the wars of terrorism in the middle east. the fourth point, on the other hand, stresses the need to encourage political, democratic and socioeconomic reforms in the eu's partner countries in order to create an area of shared prosperity, also in view of the increasing chinese presence, especially on the african continent. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european investment bank is a good one, but it is not enough to make the necessary adjustments to the existing regulation. the sixth and last point concerns the very sensitive issue of immigration. the committee on foreign affairs calls for agreements with partner countries to ensure that there is also upstream control of the phenomena of migration flows, in order to avoid that, among the many workers seeking employment in europe and who can represent a resource for our continent, there are hidden elements that are dangerous for the stability of the european union but also for the image of the countries from which they come.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the mediterranean. the aim is to revive it in order to give a parliamentary dimension to dialogue and cooperation in the mediterranean. the european parliament's position is expressed in a comprehensive way in the joint motion for a resolution, of which i would like to emphasize three points: the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the mediterranean, and it has been very active in the debate on the future of the mediterranean. we expect a common commitment from the institutions of the european union and we ask the commission to actively support the efforts of the european parliament and its president, mr pöttering, to relaunch apem, which support, in my view, should be clearly visible in tunisia, with their participation at the highest levels. the debate on the free trade area should be given special prominence today, knowing that if it is implemented it will give concrete form and scope to political and parliamentary activities. to make our actions in the mediterranean more effective, we have signed up to the so-called barcelona process. we are aware that there are delays in achieving the objectives set today. the european union has not lived up to its ambitions and it is therefore time that the process of euro-mediterranean integration should be the new policy of the european union, the priority of european union policy. the world has changed, and we must adapt our strategy without slowing down our action. north-south vertical trade needs to be strengthened and south-south trade needs to be helped to take place. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european commission, in agreement with the other institutions, chooses a symbol, creates a grand project. president barroso, commissioner benita ferrero-waldner and commissioner mandelson have all the arguments to put forward a proposal. the achievement of peace in the region is a prerequisite, with the cooperation of all the parties concerned - from israel to the palestinians, from syria to iran - with the active support of the new role of the european union and the intense activity of the quartet. the european union must be less timid, and more daring: we must get to the peace conference as soon as possible.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, mr president of the council, i believe that the arif report is one of those reports which make history in the european parliament. it takes a new and comprehensive approach to the commercial dimension of euro-mediterranean relations. however, the political groups have decided to add to the report a debate and a resolution, which of course includes it but also aims to take stock of this policy. i do not conceal that we have some concerns about the prospects for our work in partnership with the mediterranean countries, because the neighbourhood policy, which should have included these relations in a consciously continental dimension, has risked fragmenting this policy. we have great respect and appreciation for the work that the commission is doing in negotiating the country-by-country action plans, but we point out that the action plans are only part of this policy and that big problems such as employment, the fight against poverty, the environment and the recovery of the mediterranean as a space not only physical but also environmental, cultural, political and economic, need a wider breath, a multilateral policy and a more important political investment by the european union. that is why we want to urge the council, and in particular the presidency, which has shown great sensitivity to this matter, to take a step forward which we hope will also have the support of the parliamentary assembly meeting in tunis next week. i would remind you that the parliamentary assembly is the only political forum where the north and the south discuss and also the only political forum where israelis and palestinians still discuss.
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the strengthening of the southern neighbourhood policy must be a strategic priority. in relations with the mediterranean countries, the barcelona process was and continues to be a significant milestone. the pessimists will tell us that the results have been less than expected, that south-south economic cooperation is still in its infancy and that we are still far from having achieved any appreciable results in the joint management of the phenomenon of immigration. of course, more could have been done, but we would certainly not have achieved what we have achieved without the barcelona conference and the process that followed. what has been achieved is a thorough political dialogue between the two sides on broader issues. the frequent euro-mediterranean ministerial councils and the completion of a series of bilateral association agreements between the european union and its partners, which can be seen as the basis for the development of more comprehensive economic integration, are proof of this. the new neighbourhood policy offers closer cooperation instruments in the mediterranean area. action plans allow thematic intervention to be tailored to the needs of each partner. however, they should not be an alternative to the barcelona process, but complementary instruments which should allow better implementation and achievement of the barcelona objectives. these are common problems which change with time and with new needs, and which require a common approach in the interests of all the actors in the region. i would like to mention among these the prospect of a gradual integration of the euro-mediterranean energy markets for the implementation of common energy programmes and the development of sustainable energy sources, in a framework of active cooperation which also aims at the security of energy supplies, the diversification of the same energy sources, the promotion of energy efficiency, the development of new technologies, research activities and the development of joint projects in this field. all this has allowed for a deeper and more reciprocal knowledge, which must lead to a wider and more open discussion and to correcting any mistakes made, so that stability, peace, democracy and progress can become shared achievements.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr kader arif, for his comprehensive and detailed report. i'll deal with a question in a minute: the objectives and results of the barcelona process cannot be achieved unless we deal with the palestinian-israeli conflict with determination and speed. this is 2007. the palestinian territories have been occupied since 1967, and that means 40 years of deprivation of freedom and justice and 40 years of violations of un resolutions and human rights. as the german presidency has said, dialogue is necessary and all initiatives to promote it are welcome. what is needed is a negotiation that can lead to a solution to the conflict, so that palestinians and israelis can coexist in mutual security. the arab initiative and the formation of the palestinian national unity government are opportunities to be seized without delay to bring palestinians and israelis back to negotiations in the framework of an international conference. we must make this conference possible if we want the barcelona process to be not a rhetorical statement but real practice in a mediterranean of relations and exchanges. i believe that this is why we need a policy of genuine partnership in the free movement of goods and people.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank mr arif for the way in which he has conducted the drafting of the report on which we are going to vote. six thousand years after the first great civilizations emerged in the mediterranean, this part of the world is still at the centre of tensions, opportunities and problems that need to be governed. twelve years ago, with the barcelona declaration, the european union and the twelve mediterranean countries benefiting from the meda programme laid the foundations for a genuine political pact, the aim of which is to create a free trade area within a wider framework aimed at creating an area of peace and stability. the achievement of this objective also requires stabilization in the middle east and a solution to the palestinian question in accordance with the principle of 'two peoples, two states', which is essential for the liberalization of relations not only between these countries and the european union but also between them. the report by mr arif points the way to the creation of a free trade area in which the reasons for european competitiveness are well conciliated with the expectations of the peoples of north africa and the middle east and in which the european union's commitment is not limited to the selfish defence of its own interests.
in writing. the idea of creating a free trade area (fta) represents a real growth opportunity for the mediterranean countries. the strengthening of the role of the mediterranean is in fact one of the main objectives to be pursued by the european community as a whole, since this area is at the heart of a significant mix of different cultures and of strong economic interest on a world scale. in this sense, the 1995 barcelona summit generated an ambitious framework for cooperation between the two shores of the mediterranean based on the achievement of the three main objectives for the creation of a common area of prosperity through: - political dialogue and security; - the use of economic partnerships; - cooperation in the social, cultural and human fields. to make its action effective, the eu should strengthen technical and financial assistance by supporting economic realities at the territorial level, create a framework for long-term economic and social development, regulate the free trade area so as not to create imbalances in the different labour markets and introduce a code of conduct applicable to enterprises. creating development in the mediterranean means encouraging dialogue between different cultures by shaping a sense of peace and mutual understanding with respect for human rights.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. what you have said illustrates once again the problem of the vagueness of turkish laws. this includes not only article 301 of the turkish penal code, but also the anti-terrorism laws. this vagueness is not only a legal problem but also a political problem, because depending on the mood, depending on political developments, it can suddenly be used in a different way. that is why, in our contacts with our turkish colleagues, we insist that changes take place precisely there, so that a certain degree of legal certainty is created, and not that people's legal security changes when certain upheavals or certain tendencies occur in turkish politics. that is our main objective. you can be sure that we will continue to work towards this goal with great commitment.
the agenda includes the oral question by mr enrique baron crespo, on behalf of the committee on international trade, to the commission on the commission's green paper and the public consultation on a possible reform of the eu's trade policy instruments (o-0002/2007 - b6-0009/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. the question we are discussing, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and the content of which i share, is a strong appeal to the european government that the union, while maintaining its commitment to relaunch multilateral dialogue, to open up markets, to define rules that encourage development and do not impede it with non-tariff barriers, should not take unilateral measures that penalize us beyond our means, not only with regard to the emerging countries, but also with regard to the major developed countries, the united states in the lead. the promotion of competitiveness and consistency with the lisbon strategy, the opening up of markets, consumer protection, including the introduction of the obligation to 'make in' imported goods, the effectiveness of the measures taken to safeguard the effectiveness of free competition, are all inseparable elements. we reiterate our opposition to the misuse of anti-dumping measures and to the forms of disguised and unagreed protectionism, presented as a fight against unfair competition, which our competitors in the world are accusing us of. we are asking, however, that the european union's review of the anti-dumping rules not be an indirect support for those in the world who are not in favour of liberalisation. at this stage and for a long time to come, i believe, more than ever, liberalization and regulation must be closely linked in the interests of the market itself. but the rules must be objective, as has been done with the definition of rules governing competition, certain, accessible, effective and easily applicable. this is why we must minimize the discretion in the application of the safeguard measures and ensure that small and mediumsized enterprises can really enforce the rules when prices are abnormally altered. we hope, commissioner, that the european government will take these considerations into account, aware that europe's real economy needs to feel part of a strong community which encourages it, which pushes it to accept the challenges of an increasingly global world but which defends it against those who use the violation of the rules to pursue their own interests unjustly at the expense of the development of others.
member of the commission. mr president, by my reckoning 85% of those who have spoken have welcomed this review and therefore i feel gratified in having taken the initiative in proposing it to the commission. i hope that this fact and the very intelligent and, in the main, very balanced contributions that have been made to this debate will be registered in the council and by the presidency. i do not know whether they are represented tonight. it appears not. but, nonetheless, i am sure that this fact will communicate itself. now, having welcomed the review, people do differ as to whether they want to use it to water down the existing tdi or not. i am going to disappoint both those categories, both the water-downers and the anti-water-downers, by saying that the aim of the review is neither to strengthen nor to weaken our existing trade defence instruments. instead, the purpose is to make sure that we have rules that are clear, consistent and capable of commanding consensus across the union. i am not fully satisfied that we are striking the right balance at the moment. hence the controversy, hence the breakdown in consensus, hence the breakdown in solidarity amongst and between member states that we have observed in recent cases. it is my responsibility to do what is necessary, if anything can be done, to repair that solidarity and make sure that we have consensus rebuilt. of course, we are faced with constant dilemmas in exercising and applying these rules. one person’s legitimate protection is another person’s protectionism and that is where judgement needs to be applied on the basis of the objective analysis undertaken by the commission. but i have heard the call of many in this house to ensure that our anti-dumping system is clear, transparent and objective. i have heard the concerns expressed about the length and lack of efficiency of the process and i have heard those who have said that they want environmental concerns better reflected. i am not sure whether i will ever be able to fashion a set of instruments that will enable us to use trade defence to tackle global warming or bring climate security to the world. of course, if this is a challenge that members of this parliament want to set us, then we will rise to it, but i am not sure that we will be successful, just as i am not entirely sure that we will be able to use trade defence instruments to address exchange rate policy either. i am very grateful to those who have spoken and raised very important points. my own view, just to go back to the opening speaker in this debate, is that if you want to make and sustain the case for economic openness in europe, which i do, then the people of europe have to feel confident that, when they are unfairly threatened or harmed by the anti-competitive behaviour of others, that they have someone on their side: that someone is us. it is the essential and growing role of the european union and of the european commission in this global age. it does not make our task easier, but it makes it all the more necessary and important and it is a responsibility that, for my own part, i intend to see discharged in a fair, objective and dispassionate way.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr johannes voggenhuber, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the respect for the charter of fundamental rights in the commission's legislative proposals: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2005-02-06) (com (2005) 0269 - c6-0214/2007 -2005/0034/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i warmly welcome this report and wish to thank parliament for its positive reception of the commission’s communication of 27 april 2005 on a methodology to check fundamental rights compliance in the commission’s own legislative proposals. let me briefly recall why the commission adopted this communication on a methodology for compliance with fundamental rights, the first product of the commissioners’ group on fundamental rights, anti-discrimination and equal opportunities. we, the union’s institutions, must at all times show that we cherish fundamental rights, not only in words but in actions and above all in our own legislative action. this is crucial for the union to be credible and legitimate in the eyes of its citizens. the charter, which the institutions subscribed to in 2000, must encourage us to enhance respect for individual freedom in all its facets. this includes classic civil liberties to be upheld, precisely in our current efforts to combat terrorism. it also includes economic and social rights and, last but not least, the new generation rights such as data protection, good administration and bio-ethical guarantees. but, briefly, it must become clear to our citizens that the european union locks a true fundamental rights culture into its own policy-making. it is therefore a matter of great satisfaction and encouragement for the commission to see that our communication of 2005 has found such a prominent echo in your resolution of today and that this parliament makes the same commitment on its part to include internal rules for monitoring fundamental rights. taking rights seriously must be a common leitmotif for all institutions throughout the eu’s legislative process. i also wish to thank parliament for some constructive practical suggestions which the voggenhuber report offers to the commission in order to develop further our human rights compliance methodology. as you know, we have scheduled a review of our methodology to be launched later this year, and the commission will present parliament with the results of this review. the commission is very keen to share its experience with parliament in that respect. in the context of this review, the commission will of course pay utmost attention to your suggestions. for instance, we have noted that we should refer not only to the charter as a point of reference, but also to european and international human rights conventions, and that parliament emphasises the commission’s right to withdraw its proposal where changes are made in the legislative process which would violate a fundamental right. we are also open to giving even greater visibility to fundamental rights in our impact assessments. finally, a major theme of the planned review will be how to involve the newly-established fundamental rights agency when preparing new policy initiatives which are sensitive to fundamental rights. as regards the call for a new annual report from the commission on fundamental rights in the eu, we think that it could be useful to have a yearly general discussion on this issue. this could take place in the context of our annual discussion relating to progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. we are less convinced on having a new formal, specific annual report, in particular since the recently established fundamental rights agency will, as perhaps its most important task, adopt such an annual report on fundamental rights issues within the eu. that report, and thus our new fundamental rights agency, should receive all the public attention it deserves. that report should therefore be at the centre of discussions on fundamental rights issues in all three institutions and we should avoid any duplication of it. but, with that caveat, i would like to say how much we commend this report on its content and how seriously we take it.
the committee on constitutional affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the european parliament and of the council against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the commission on this new approach to the protection of fundamental rights. i thank the commissioner for informing us this evening that a substantial part of the ideas put forward by the afco committee will be incorporated by the commission in the amended text. we hope that the european parliament will be increasingly involved in this protection and we particularly welcome the idea of continuous monitoring of all legislative activities leading to such protection, which could be concluded, as the commissioner said, with a final report. this becomes irrelevant if monitoring is pervasive, constant and continuous. secondly, as regards the involvement of the fundamental rights agency, i believe - as has already been said in committee - that it is also necessary to diversify its activities in order to avoid unnecessary overlaps and duplication. i therefore believe that the full involvement of the agency, as well as of non-governmental organisations and associations, as the rapporteur said, must become increasingly important and significant, given that there are very important associations which are concerned with the protection of human rights. finally, we believe that systematic internal control is necessary at all levels during the legislative process. it is therefore desirable that these suggestions contained in the clear and lucid report of the rapporteur, as he has illustrated it this evening, should become part of the commission's own work.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess in a minute and a half that whenever this parliament is called upon to discuss human rights, there is the worrying feeling that it is only a rhetorical exercise. i say this because, although a month ago this parliament discussed the results of a year's work of the tdip committee on the cia, this month neither the commission nor the council have provided any feedback on the work done by the european parliament and put to their judgment. we would not want this to be the fate of this valuable communication, which, as mr voggenhuber has reminded us, is intended to clarify and reinforce a practice which has become common in this institution since 2001, namely that of ensuring that all the normative and legislative procedures carried out by the institutions are compatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this practice has been waiting for recognition for a long time and we hope that its implementation will not remain a dead letter. one thing must be made clear: we ask the commission to submit an annual report to parliament, in which it takes stock of the state of application of fundamental rights in european policies. it seems rather strange to us that there is an annual report on the application of community law and an annual report on competition policy, and that there is no report on fundamental rights which the commission is required to submit to the european parliament. we also say this in relation to the impact of these policies on 500 million european citizens and because we believe that this is a concern that the european institutions must address in order to restore dignity and substance to the human rights that we are often called upon to address.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need for legislative proposals to be compatible with fundamental rights can be a good way of reopening the debate on the real process of european constitution, avoiding the clumsy attempt to revive a dead treaty after it has had an impact on the people. i believe that, on the eve of the forthcoming and still mysterious berlin declaration, this could be a serious way of reopening the debate and giving europe a new meaning, and i would like to thank mr voggenhuber for that. in recent years we have seen the cia flying and kidnapping over european territory, the systematic monitoring of citizens and the violation of their privacy, the detention of migrants in inhuman and degrading places. this is the most striking example of the european union's difficulty in protecting fundamental rights. we believe that the european union's legislative proposals must always be fully compatible not only with the charter of fundamental rights but also with other european and international instruments on fundamental rights: i am thinking of the european convention for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms and the european social charter. we think this is a good way to start a thorough debate on the revival of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the joint debate on the report by mr willy meyer pleite, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european parliament recommendation to the council on the negotiating mandate for the association agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the countries of central america, of the other part (2006/2222 (ini)) (a6-0026/2007) and the report by mr luis yañez-barnuevo garcía, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european parliament recommendation to the council on the negotiating directions for the association agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the andean community and its member states, of the other part (2006/2221 (ini)) (a6-0025/2007) is scheduled to start at the end of the debate.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council on the basis of the opinion of the committee on international trade. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to focus on the meyer report, which sets out an important initiative for the european union to look again at central america as an opportunity and to encourage trade, gradually reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers over time, and the free movement of people, goods and services, while making the most of the peculiarities of those countries. this means intensifying cooperation and development, protecting the social and individual dignity of the most vulnerable and gradually opening our markets, especially to their typical agricultural products, on which a large part of the gross domestic product of those countries is still based. the inta committee has made a typical contribution to its powers, but certainly the growth of the competitiveness of the countries of central america is the essential condition for the political stabilization of an area which is still suffering the consequences of the violent clash between the tyrannical institutions and the revolutionary forces of a few years ago, which caused hundreds and hundreds of thousands of deaths and which has upset that geopolitical area. the cultural and political approach of the report is therefore positive and i do not think it has been watered down by the inta committee's proposal. the fact that some of its recommendations have been substantially implemented has also helped to link the question of the creation of the free trade area to the more general complexity of the problems connected with the development of democracy in that geopolitical area.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr luis yañez-barnuevo garcía, on his report on the agreement with the andean community, because it is based on three pillars and offers a framework that is not limited to economic aspects. it was the aspiration of all the institutions to include in the future association agreement issues such as unemployment, security, migration, social development, the environment, sustainable development and therefore political stability. we are concerned with the protection of human rights, civil and political, economic and social rights, and also, in line with the policies of the european union, with the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems. the need arises to combat child labour and to ensure investment in education, research, science and technology. the great diversity within the andean community area requires a commitment to poverty reduction. we also all wanted to stress the need to defeat the scourge of narcoterrorism and to do everything possible to eradicate organized crime, corruption, impunity, terrorism, money laundering and arms trafficking. the agreement must therefore promote employment and, above all, alternative crops to drugs. we also hope that the association will give new impetus to market liberalization and trade liberalization with the free trade area, controlled customs tariffs and simplification and harmonization of customs regimes. we must also ensure legal certainty for investors by saying a firm no to the nationalisation of empires that we have seen in recent times.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda calls into question the commission's statement on the disappearance of persons in cyprus. in this connection i welcome the members of the united nations committee on missing persons in cyprus who are present in the gallery to follow the discussion on this subject, and in particular mr christophe girod of the united nations, chairman of the committee, mr elias georgiadis, greek cypriot member of the committee, and mrs gülden plümer küçük, turkish cypriot member of the committee. (applause) i would like to thank
at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution on the disappearance of persons in cyprus. the minutes of the sitting have been distributed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the drafting of this report. we believe that this is the first time that a comprehensive study has been devoted to the islands, taking account of the specific features of the islands in all areas of community competence: although cohesion policy 2007-13 pays particular attention to structurally disadvantaged areas, no specific measures are foreseen for island regions. parliament has repeatedly highlighted this gap and, although the context of europe's islands is heterogeneous - there are 121 of them, with a population of around 15 million - they share a number of difficulties which constitute a competitive disadvantage: higher prices due to additional transport costs and low competition; difficulty in accessing the single market; need to import raw materials; higher energy costs; infrastructure deficiencies; immigration; limited diversification of economic activities and vulnerability to environmental risks. it is no coincidence that the average gdp per head in the islands is 72% of the eu average. it is therefore necessary to recognise their specific features in the implementation of community policies, starting with state aid. we therefore believe that more flexibility is needed to balance the additional costs and, as far as energy is concerned, to compensate for fluctuations in fuel prices. particular attention should be paid, in the context of the operational programmes of the structural funds, to the implementation of infrastructure works, especially in the framework of the european maritime policy, in order to fully integrate the islands into the internal market and the lisbon strategy. on the other hand, islands have an advantage in terms of energy production: wind, sun, and sea. they have a unique potential value, which is why the commission must give priority to projects for renewable energy and energy security. tourism is also a resource to be developed. a community policy for the promotion of island tourism, a quality and origin mark and a thorough analysis in favour of sustainable tourism are needed. we are proposing, among other things, that 2010 be the european year of the islands. the report also deals with the problem of illegal immigration, which we consider to be a human tragedy and an intolerable burden for the mediterranean islands, which the european union must take on. we welcome the creation of rapid border intervention teams and call for the establishment of a european coast guard. it is urgent that the european union allocate the necessary resources to ensure rapid and timely action in this area. there are other proposals which deserve further consideration, such as the financial instruments jaspers (joint assistance for projects in european regions) and jeremie (joint european resources for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), to facilitate credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and to promote the diversification of island economies or the spread of broadband to fill the technological gap. finally, it is essential to review the regulatory framework to take full account of the specificities of the islands and to update the statistical indicators accordingly: to take islands into account in the context of the european spatial planning observatory network and to set up an administrative unit for islands within the commission's dg regional policy. we hope that this report will really, once and for all, represent a turning point in creating real development and giving concrete answers to the new generations who want to continue living and working in the reality where they were born, integrated into the european context.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, how can we not take account of the structural disadvantages of the islands of our europe? it was essential that this should be an objective in the community state aid regulation. the own-initiative report on the islands of the union and their undeniable limitations, presented by my very esteemed colleague mr musotto, is a milestone in the recognition of the importance of islands in the regional development frameworks of europe. it is the first time in this parliament that i have had the opportunity to analyse and comment on such a valuable and worthwhile report. it is to be shared because it is complete in the aspects considered and very balanced in the method, as well as being absolutely shared in its substance and aims. i shall be glad to vote for it and i hope that it will receive the highest possible approval from all my colleagues. can the union not consider how statistically unassailable it is that some 15 million citizens live on islands and that over 90% of this population have incomes below the european average? the undeniable structural deficits, a direct consequence of insularity, are the main cause of this status, and for too long the union has practically ignored it. the excellent musotto report, in addition to describing in its recitals the reasons and motives for the lack of development and clearly outlining the specific resources of the islands, also focuses on the measures, and indeed the instruments, analyses and statistics, which the union can use to take account of the structural handicaps of the islands in the allocation of the structural funds and aid to lessfavoured areas. this guideline is an act owed to island communities, recognising their role in european civilization and their role today as a major environmental and economic resource for the union. if the islands are supported within the undeniable development limitation which is still the obstacle to their development due to their insularity, and if this is taken into account in the guidelines for the structural funds, the union will make a substantial contribution to removing inequalities, even discrimination, which are not only unjustifiable by virtue of the acquis communautaire but are contrary to the recognised objective of a fair and compatible development of europe's regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by warmly congratulating mr musotto on his excellent work. i have expressed my sensitivity to the issue of island specificities by participating in the negotiation process of the new regulations on cohesion policy as rapporteur on the regulation for the cohesion fund and as shadow rapporteur on the general regulation and on the regulation on the european regional development fund. i am therefore well aware that parliament has recognised the disadvantaged status of the islands and has reiterated that they represent a natural and cultural heritage for all of us in europe. the european union must be able to support and enhance these territories, guaranteeing the resources necessary for their harmonious development in accordance with the principle of territorial cohesion, allowing for more flexible application of state aid policies and ensuring effective protection of environmental characteristics. particular attention should be paid to islands far from major population centres, which face enormous difficulties in accessing services, even basic ones, by developing a community maritime policy capable of establishing sound economic and commercial relations with neighbouring countries. i very much agree with mr musotto on the need to improve transport links and infrastructure - i am referring to ports and airports - and on the need to compensate for higher costs, especially energy costs, due to their geographical location. i also find the rapporteur's proposal to set up a european coastguard corps to guard the external borders of the european union interesting, considering that one of the problems that most affects our islands is that of illegal immigration by sea. in conclusion, i would like to express my support for the excellent proposal by mr musotto to designate 2010 as the european year of the islands.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is useful to discuss specific economic measures to support the islands, their peculiarities and characteristics, and i think it is useful for cohesion policy to deal in particular with the outermost regions. i believe that action must be taken to ensure that there is a real improvement in the transport system and infrastructure, in the links between the outside and the inside and also in the internal links between the islands, for example between the coasts and the interior, avoiding the use of european resources for unnecessary pharaonic works, often designed to connect the islands with the mainland with huge bridges, which would certainly also corrupt the very idea of insularity. while i appreciate the approach of mr musotto's report, i think it places too much emphasis on the relationship between islands and irregular immigration. there is no relationship. the vast majority of migrants in the canary islands arrive by air and not by sea, just as the vast majority of irregular migrants in italy do not land in lampedusa but also arrive by air. i therefore think that this is an inappropriate point, and i therefore believe that this aspect is probably not organic to mr musotto's report. we should also ask ourselves whether the activation of rapid intervention teams at the borders is probably more useful in preventing the deaths of migrants in the mediterranean than in stopping them from arriving.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr musotto for the excellent work he has done in bringing to the fore the problems of the island regions, problems which i have personally experienced and whose complexity i can feel. the policy of economic and social cohesion is essential to reduce the gap between the levels of development of the various regions and in this context particular attention must be paid to the reality of the islands and i thank the commissioner for mentioning it. better development of our islands means strengthening infrastructure, improving connectivity, integrated transport and tackling critical water and energy supply issues and nodes. we must make our island regions, such as agriculture, fishing, handicrafts and tourism, more competitive and attractive. the aim must be to create favourable conditions for full employment, to attract private investment and, at the same time, to ensure a standard of living and sustainable development that is significantly higher than the present one, including through the promotion and development of alternative energies and new technologies. finally, we cannot underestimate the impact that illegal immigration has on island communities, especially in the mediterranean, which is growing more and more every day. this is a disproportionate burden, which islands cannot and should not bear alone. it must be our priority to find a comprehensive and responsible solution, including means of dealing with emergency situations linked to the arrival of mass immigrants - who unfortunately do not arrive only by air - across maritime borders, in compliance with fundamental rights. it is therefore urgent to reduce the delay in the islands by means of a policy of genuine solidarity, which will encourage the islanders to accept the new european union. i would like to congratulate mr musotto again on his excellent work and on his focus on the many important issues for our islands.
member of the commission. mr president, it has been a most interesting debate. let me start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr musotto, on his report – which i did not do in my opening remarks –and for bringing this issue before us today in the first ever report dedicated to islands. he has made history! much has been said this morning about state aids, and i should like to respond to that first. again, operating aid – aid aimed at reducing a firms current expenses – is normally prohibited. it is prohibited in the treaty and it is prohibited by the regional aid guidelines, because of its highly distortive effect. that being said, it can be granted exceptionally in the poorest regions that are lagging behind in terms of regional development. the regions that can benefit from operating aid are, as you are aware, the 87(3)(a) regions, which are the outermost and sparsely populated regions, provided that a number of conditions are fulfilled. in the poorest regions and, again, the 87(3)(a) regions, operating aid can be authorised only on a case-by-case basis, provided it is limited in time, degressive, proportionate, and designed to tackle specific structural handicaps. in reply to mrs sudre, as you are aware, the commission accords a particular status to the outermost regions, given their remoteness and specific constraints on integrating into the internal market. for islands other than outermost regions, a generalised approach based on the characteristics of these regions seems rather difficult. enormous differences exist between island regions in europe, and you are an example of that. they are characterised by a large diversity, and in terms of regional development and their gdp per capita, a significant number of large islands are rather wealthy, as some of you rightly pointed out. granting operating aid to an island that has a gdp per capita among the highest in the eu would completely distort competition in the relevant markets without any justification in terms of regional development. thus, the commission cannot accord the status of assisted area to all european islands, given their extreme diversity. in response to mr arnaoutakis, i note that subsidising fuel and energy costs constitutes operating aid. such aid can only be authorised if the general conditions – which i have just touched upon – are fulfilled. it must not prop up structurally loss-making activities, particularly those that are very damaging, for example, to our environmental or climate change objectives. furthermore, regional operating aid is certainly not the best instrument to tackle the local problems of islands. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, the islands’ main problems can be tackled more effectively with horizontal instruments. for example, local services that are not economically viable can be supported through services of general economic interest. work and investment for all kinds of infrastructure can be financed. they do not have an aid element and, in the case of very small islands in particular, the de minimis aid and the eur 200 000 threshold can be sufficient, as i mentioned. as regards mrs attwooll’s comment about the market investor principle, i believe that we can apply a more refined economic approach to assess situations of market failure in islands and proposed investments. however, as i have mentioned already, making the rules more predictable and more transparent and reducing the administrative burden of state aid notification are objectives of the state aid reform. i understand the specific concerns of smaller businesses, who have to try to pick their way through the state aid maze, and we agree upon this. that is why i have followed up on the suggestion made by some of you that the commission should provide user-friendly guidance explaining our rules clearly and simply. my services have now almost completed a full update of a vade mecum offering a concise overview of the basic eu rules on state aid. the vade mecum does not aim to provide an exhaustive description of the rules. instead, it focuses on the issues that are most relevant for people involved in regional development. i hope to have this vade mecum on line on the dg competition europe website very shortly, in a couple of weeks time, and i would be happy to provide copies to interested members. i would now like to turn to four wider issues raised by some members. mr smith mentioned the need for statistics. the commission is working well with eurostat on a regular basis. this may we will publish the fourth cohesion report, which will include more statistics. mr smith also mentioned access to the transmission network for renewable energy. it is indeed vital and that is why the commission takes the view that full structural unbundling of energy markets is the best solution to the problems of concentration and foreclosure of new entrants we have experienced in these markets. several members suggested the need for a specific unit on islands in dg regional policy. i will certainly take good note of this, but, as you are aware, it is my colleague, mrs hübner, who is taking the decisions here and not me. i am sure she will examine your idea carefully. finally, we will look carefully at your proposal for designating 2010 as the year of islands, but i assure you that the commission will continue to pursue the best interests of islands in 2007, 2008 and 2009, so do not think that we are neglecting this important issue. on the contrary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the report by mr pierre schapira, on behalf of the committee on development, on local authority and development cooperation (2006/2235 (ini)) (a6-0039/2007).
i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, which is a very good report, and i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, which is a very good report, and that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. in recent years, the community has recognized in its strategies the indispensable contribution that local and civil authorities around the world have been able to make, with dedication and creativity, to making democracy what it should be: the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it is now necessary to make the actors of decentralised cooperation, local authorities first and foremost, not just managers of funds and projects, who must also be increased financially, but actors capable of having a political impact on the definition and implementation of eu development policy and cooperation, ensuring, together with ngos and other non-state actors, permanent representation and consultation of eu development policy bodies for a structured dialogue in europe and in partner countries. with this report parliament is fully consistent with its functions and the eu's fundamental values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been mayor of a town north of rome for over six years now and i know well how much each local area has its own particular problems which can rarely be tackled in a decisive way by programmes at national or regional level. the promotion of twinning with third countries could be an effective way, for example, of spreading good practice also at territorial level. as rapporteur for the committee on development on the human rights financing instrument, i have stressed the added value of local communities for the development of third countries. only those directly concerned, the citizens who are most closely connected with the needs and requirements of each individual community, can have a full knowledge of its problems and, above all, if necessary, in collaboration with european and international experts, intervene with concrete actions. in particular in countries with corrupt or unstable governments, an approach which puts local authorities at the centre of development actions financed by the international community would, in my view, make it possible to implement more rapid and concrete actions with less expenditure of economic resources and expertise. it is important that the commission, as it is doing with the new development instrument and in general, the international donors, recognize civil society and local authorities as political partners in the challenges against poverty and for economic and social development. but this theoretical recognition must be reflected in practice, through increasingly substantial direct funding lines. i have recently been campaigning for co-responsibility in government lending, so that the flow of finance, which in the name of development is placed at the disposal of the beneficiary governments, is managed with the full approval of the elected representatives of the citizens concerned. if 30 years of development cooperation have not yet produced the results expected, perhaps it is now necessary to acknowledge the mistakes and change course while there is still time.
i wish you every success in your work as mayor.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the commission welcomes this report and shares its analysis of the important role local authorities can play in development cooperation. their contribution is crucial for the achievement of the millennium development goals for good governance and for better ownership of development cooperation strategies. it is for these same reasons that the commission is supporting local governance through geographic and thematic instruments and also involves local authorities in the programming process itself. the commission is trying to further improve their level of participation and we are grateful for parliament’s support in these efforts. you have also raised some interesting ideas, such as twinning, which i shall certainly bring to the attention of my colleague, mr michel, and he will study that further.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, i believe that mr tannock has withdrawn his amendment in favour of an oral amendment which - i refer to paragraph 21 of the french text - would read as follows: the phrase "no case to refouler a person" is proposed to be replaced by "asylum seeker to a state where he risks"... mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to ask my group to vote in favour of the final text because there was an error on the voting list.
mr president, i would ask that the words 'by extending' be replaced by 'by considering' in respect of the text which has been delivered.
in writing. the three main objectives set by the 1995 barcelona conference, namely the establishment of a free trade area by 2010 between the european union and the afro-asian partners; the european union is a major player in the world economy. the palestinian-israeli conflict is, unfortunately, light years away from a peaceful solution. moreover, after israel's withdrawal from the gaza strip, a dramatic civil war broke out between supporters of hamas and fatah. in some non-european partner countries, some of the basic human rights, if recognised, are often not fully applied. the economic and social partnership, which is being supported by the meda programme, has also failed to produce the results it hoped for and is still lagging behind in terms of development, both because europe has not ensured that the first and second meda programmes are fully implemented and because the beneficiary countries have not always been able to create the economic and social infrastructure needed to make their economies competitive. finally, in many euro-mediterranean regions, there is a lack of an effective transport system, the development of information technologies is still insufficient and the modernisation of telecommunications is far from being achieved. for these reasons, i think it is necessary to postpone the establishment of the euro-mediterranean free trade area.
in writing. on behalf of the its group and the fiamma party i represent, i say no to this unacceptable resolution. not because of the creation of the free trade area, but because of the shocking content of the proposal and the prospect. in the present context of political instability and institutional confusion, the free trade area cannot be seen as an opportunity for the countries of the south-eastern mediterranean alone. the delay in the implementation of the reforms necessary for the creation of a euro-mediterranean market by the countries mentioned cannot automatically allow them to be given the right to protect the most vulnerable sectors of their economies, to the detriment of the eu countries, which, according to this report, are only responsible for assistance and the citizens are responsible for paying the costs. the need to adapt the pace and intensity of market opening is only addressed by providing timely support for the integration of semps. the creation of a kind of integrated agricultural policy for the mediterranean and adequate financial support for the seaps are envisaged, thus foreshadowing the transformation of femip into a real development bank. and to put an end to the absurdity, the report seeks to facilitate the free movement of workers by means of legal and administrative arrangements which will facilitate the granting of entry visas. there is no benefit, only further damage for the european taxpayers.
in writing. the islands of the european union, whether they are the outermost or not, almost all face the same difficulties. these include lack of infrastructure, higher prices due to additional transport costs, higher energy costs, emigration and immigration. for these reasons too, i have repeatedly asked the european commission to give its opinion on certain issues which are essential for the development of the islands, particularly for my home region of sicily. first of all, i think it is essential to recognise compensatory taxation for all islands, as has been done for other regions of the european union. this would allow for more capital to be attracted, generating development and employment. as regards investment incentives, i asked the commission to take account of the development of a policy which encourages foreigners, particularly non-community nationals, to go to zero taxation. finally, as regards the lack of infrastructure, which is one of the main obstacles to the socioeconomic growth of the islands, i fully support the call on the commission to review its policy of not granting state aid for infrastructure projects which improve transport links. in this context, i would like to stress the need to build a bridge over the straits of messina.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that the cambodian regime has a nasty habit of liquidating trade union leaders: it's been mentioned before, it's not the first time. today, we have news of the murder of hyvuthy, again in mysterious circumstances. i think it is necessary for the european union to make its voice heard in a timely manner, also in preparation for the elections in april. we must avoid arriving at the last moment and having to acknowledge and take note of the irregularities that inevitably occur. another key issue is the khmer rouge crimes tribunal: the european parliament, the commission and the council should now propose a public hearing of the president of the court of justice, so that we can really understand the problems that are hampering the work of the court of justice and try to solve them. we express our solidarity, also as the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party, with our comrades in the same political family as the sam rainsy party - many of whose members and 24 members of parliament are also members of the radical party for transnational and non-violent action - and we also express our solidarity with the montagnard refugees in cambodia and i hope that this parliament will approve the two amendments which we have tabled as the alde group. it is true that the united states is pursuing, to an ever-increasing extent - for the reasons mentioned by mr posselt - a policy of appeasement and good relations with the vietnamese regime, without therefore raising the problems of the human rights of refugees with the same firmness as in the past. the european union has the opportunity to make a positive difference and lift the human rights clause in the agreements with the cambodian regime: this is a good opportunity to do that.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must respond to mr gahler's request, which asks whether there are more serious and more important issues outside and inside nigeria itself. i think so, and i share the view of my colleague in 't veld, but i also think that this resolution should be supported for two important reasons: the first is that we have the opportunity to act before something serious happens. instead of having to follow events for the next 15 or 20 years and lament the sentences that this law would entail if it were applied to thousands of individuals - as has happened many times with nigeria itself, for example on death sentences - we have the opportunity, as the european parliament, to move ahead. i think this is a golden opportunity. it is also possible that president obasanjo is giving in to the fundamentalist pressure of islamic fundamentalism in the northern states. our relations of friendship but also of harsh criticism, when needed, could help the president to resist the disaster of fundamentalism, which is also in danger of taking hold in nigeria.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office, berlin was a very emotional moment, especially for those of us who have been in this parliament since 1989, the year that marked the new birth of europe. the declaration recognizes that europe is a union of states and not a new super-state, and the recognition of the identity of the peoples of the union, of their differences in the commonality of their intentions, is the force that allows us to resume the path towards achieving that political union which we still lack. we regret that it has not been possible to fully acknowledge our roots: we are convinced that without the recognition of all our roots, there is political impoverishment. in our complex, multicultural and multiethnic society, with different views of the concept of democracy for the achievement of peace, which goes hand in hand with the universal recognition of respect for the dignity of the person, it is necessary that each culture dialogue with the others and for the recognition of the others the prerequisite is the recognition of the self, from the daily life of individuals to that of states. we are firm in reaffirming the danger of any theocracy and also of an exasperated secularism which is slowly destroying the values which define society in individuals and in politics. we are concerned about the confusion that too many people are creating between the essential concept of the secularity of institutions and the acceptance of a cultural and political relativism that leads to an exaggerated secularism. we are opposed to a europe which is only a market and to those pseudo-cultures which encourage citizens to seek a virtual life to replace, out of incapacity or fear, real life. we want a political europe which can inspire the desire for democracy where millions of women and men in the world are still suffering from the lack of freedom and the rule of law. europe needs institutions that are agile and defined as soon as possible, because today is the day when terrorism is on the horizon and today is the day when we need the ability to identify and carry out our missions immediately - as we stated in the european convention - missions that europe has towards itself and the rest of the world: from energy to water resources, from climate change to reasserting human dignity. we fear that 2009 is too far away but impossible to hold on to, even though we are so aware of the strong and convinced commitment of the german presidency and of chancellor merkel's great ability to know at once how to mediate and persuade, that we have some hope that these times can be shortened.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out immediately to mr watson and mr daul and to the others that there is a very simple way of getting more women: the co-chairs. in the greens/efa group we have succeeded it works very well and i would highly recommend it. we are very pleased, madam chancellor, with the berlin declaration. there are moments when solemnity, rhetoric and formality make sense, and the 50th anniversary of the european community is certainly one of those occasions, not least because so many people have died to get there and it has been a very hard battle and a rather long job. we are also aware of its role and we are grateful to it for this, although i think that all this falls somewhat within its duties, and we are pleased to note that in this case, unlike in other cases, i would like to mention energy, cars, etc., the german presidency has shown a european sense that is certainly up to the task. i think the message has been conveyed and the public has understood that these 50 years are a positive milestone and that we must continue the work. of course, the people of europe have not paid much attention to the text of the declaration or to the cost of putting together these two beautiful "little pages", in which there is really nothing particularly extraordinary or original. rather, in my view, it is what has been omitted from the declaration in question that demonstrates the existence of a situation of deep division within governments - i insist, governments - as regards the future of europe, a division which does not bode well for the work that awaits you, madam chancellor, in the coming months. we know very well that the dream of european union has not yet been realised. we are not yet able to intervene in darfur as the european union because we are divided. that the ahinoi energy policy for many governments means above all bowing down to president putin; the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. madam chancellor, if the aim of the rest of the presidency is to break the impasse in which we find ourselves, we can have no illusions whatsoever: the purely intergovernmental method will not work, nor will the berlin declaration method, because we will not succeed, in a nice night of intergovernmental conferences, in finding an agreement which is capable, as you said, of saving the substance of the constitution. we therefore call on you: the european parliament must have the courage to risk democracy and the courage to allow the opening of the intergovernmental conference, allowing the european parliament to enter through a procedure of codecision and shuttle, publicity and debate. the european citizens want more europe, not less europe, but their governments are not always able to demonstrate this. so reject the idea that only an intergovernmental conference can bring about a result, because it will not, we will not save the substance of the constitution but we will only have a handful of flies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs merkel is sincerely committed to reviving europe, but i do not agree with the method and the content with which she is trying to do so. the social, political and democratic crisis and the significance of the french referendum are being put in parentheses, and this is being done by focusing on the intergovernmental method, which has even prevented parliaments - me, for example - from being aware of the berlin declaration, and on continuity with the old liberal treaty, which is perhaps ready to be revised to a minimum. you don't solve problems by continuing down the same path that created them. instead, we must change the text and the context and focus on democracy and rights, giving the people and parliaments a voice again, starting with the european parliament, to rewrite a constitution based on the right to citizenship, peace, work and the environment and then submit it to a european referendum in which the people have the last word.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, in berlin the european leaders lacked the courage to point out the choices that globalization, immigration and the risk of loss of identity impose on us. not a word about europe's geopolitical borders, which risk being drawn into the borderlands - thanks to enlargement to include turkey - of iran, iraq and even syria. only pope ratzinger, who emerges in this situation as a peak, as a spiritual leader of a europe that has no ideas, no ideals, has shown the way forward: how can we fail to understand that it is not possible to build a common european home by ignoring the cultural and moral identity of the peoples of europe? the european leaders have remained deaf and dumb in the face of these warnings. it is certainly not the europe of the bankers and the lobbies that can save us from these failures, from the crisis of the european social model and from the threat of islamic invasion. we in the autonomous communities find it difficult to accept a draft constitution which enshrines a bureaucratic and centralist europe, characterized, as we see these days, by serious scandals, little transparency, far from the dream of the great thinkers who dreamed of a europe of the regions and peoples. however, madam chancellor, i would like to acknowledge and thank you for the sensitivity you have shown, as a pietas christian leader, for the attention you have paid, as i pointed out, to the still unresolved problem of recognizing the rights of italian military internees. i thank you on their behalf and on behalf of the 50,000 families who are waiting to see their sacrifice and their memory recognized.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam chancellor, the berlin summit certainly gave europe a step forward, marking the beginning of a new phase after a period marked by difficulties and some setbacks. the celebrations of the 50th anniversary of the treaties marked the resumption of a european initiative, coordinated between the council, the commission and parliament, to build the future of europe. but if we are to talk about the future, we must have as our objective, before 2009, a fundamental law regulating the powers and role of a union which is not only a market but also has the capacity to be a protagonist in international politics, with measures capable of giving concrete answers, including to the citizens' questions. that is why i welcome, madam chancellor, the initiative to open a great debate on three fundamental topics: (a) the environment; (b) the free movement of goods; the african question and its dramas are too often ignored by the west. but the europe we believe in and the europe of the founding fathers is not just political and economic. i am concerned to read that hundreds of churches are disappearing in germany, just as i am concerned to see that few children are born in italy; i am outraged by the verdicts of judges who acquit men who savagely beat their wives in the name of their religion; i am afraid of the spread of drugs among young europeans. this is not the europe we recognize ourselves in and are committed to. it would therefore be a mistake to underestimate, or worse to forget, the values highlighted in the berlin declaration: the european union is a great example of the european union's commitment to democracy, peace, freedom, justice and, above all, the centrality and dignity of the human person. how can we not share the words of jacques delors, who reminds us not to forget our christian origins. he says in an interview today: "memory is our future".
i would like to apologise to mr barroso for the lack of presence in the chamber, not of members who are not present, but, especially on a subject such as this, of those who took part in the debate. but i'm sure they'll read your speech and maybe hear it on the screen.
i thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question by mr pisani. pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to the council, on greater convergence in supervisory practices at eu level (o-0125/2006 - b6-0010/2007); and-on the oral question by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, to the council, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (2003) 0173 - c4-0210/2007 - syn 02) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (com (2003) 0173 - c4-0210/2007 - syn 0173 (c4-0215/2007); pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, to the commission, on greater convergence in supervisory practices at eu level (o-0126/2006 - b6-0449/2006).
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the report by mr joost lagendijk, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the future of kosovo and the role of the european union (2006/2267 (ini)) (a6-0067/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the european union does not have the powers in foreign policy that many of us would like to give it, our discussion today on kosovo has a greater political value than we do in other circumstances, firstly because the discussion and adoption of the lagendijk report takes place in a political time that is still fluid, where events are evolving week by week and where the individual actors can still influence each other. i therefore believe that it is very useful for the european parliament tomorrow and the european union, say, the day after tomorrow to speak clearly, possibly by a large majority, in parliament tomorrow and, possibly unanimously, at council level in a few weeks' time. i find it interesting that the assessments so far received from mr lagendijk, the council and the commission are largely convergent. i find that a very important premise. i'll call it in five. first of all: the future of the balkans and kosovo is a future in europe. the first clear word we can say to bring some calm to those areas is to ensure a positive outcome for all, for serbia and for kosovo, namely the integration of the european union. it is a goal that suits them but it is also a goal that suits us very much, particularly in order to transform an otherwise unstable area into a space of permanent peace, economic development and multiethnic democracy. secondly: the european union must also be able to take action to prevent the spread of the virus, and to prevent the spread of the virus. thirdly: the independence of kosovo is the final outcome that the entire population of kosovo is striving for and that the lagendijk report also mentions, also in the light of the amendments we have tabled. perhaps historians will tell us that it was a mistake not to anticipate second options. but this is a fact today and the leaders of serbia know this very well, and they need to be politically reassured and not mortified. it is important to know that serbia has never renounced kosovo on a symbolic level, but at the same time, on a factual level, kosovo has been outside the serbian sphere of influence for years. finally, the european parliament must support - i repeat, unanimously - the ahtisaari plan, and we hope that the council will do the same in the coming weeks. mr president, i have one final point to make. the debate on the european parliament's budget, which will take place in a few weeks' time, must ensure that there is consistency between what we say on the political level and the financial instruments we will support to help kosovo to reach its final outcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president of this parliament usually reacts when the leaders of dictatorial regimes (china, cuba and others) attack the european parliament for its resolutions and decisions. the representative of an absolutist state, the vatican city state, in the person of cardinal angelo scola, complained that 'in areas such as marriage, the family and life - i quote scola - it is not appropriate for the present european parliament to be continually making statements, in effect putting pressure on individual countries'. cardinal scola has made similar statements to the president of our parliament, and i think that the president of the european parliament and parliament itself should react, as they usually do to those who dare to attack the autonomy and the deliberations of this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an italian newspaper, the giornale di milano, and a number of agencies, both italian and ukrainian, have reported on a fact which has deeply affected the consciences of all those who still have memories and perhaps open wounds of family members about the fate of the fallen of the second world war. the remains of more than 200 italian soldiers are buried in a small village in ukraine, where an attempt was made to build a huge ten-storey apartment building, and now a supermarket is being built. i believe that, in the light of the values on which the european union is founded, a clear condemnation and a strong position must be expressed. i therefore recommend that the president of parliament should intervene with the ukrainian authorities to prevent this disgrace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on my flight from bergamo to brussels i was greeted by a delegation of 27 widows, one from each of our member states of the european union, who complained that the survivor's pensions paid to the widows of pensioners and workers were only half of what the spouse's pension was. the widows have asked me to raise this issue in the european parliament - which i am doing - in the certainty that their request will be heard by all 27 governments that make up the european union, waiting for it to be finally introduced - as i myself ask - a european pension, which guarantees equal rights and better for all citizens of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there has been very careful work in my committee, of which i was rapporteur, and which has been unanimously voted in committee. the envi committee is obviously concerned about the protection of the environment, but in this particular case we have concentrated on the question of how the environment can be protected also through the rule of the market. i want to say this because the key point of the report i have presented is precisely this: for those who produce, sell or buy organic food, it must be clear, with absolute certainty and without any margin for error, that this food is indeed organic and not contaminated by, for example, gmos. i believe that this 'zero threshold' of contamination is indispensable from the outset and that no further action is required. the seller of a product - i am thinking, for example, of a high-end automobile - cannot tolerate the fact that the product contains even a single bolt that does not belong to that automobile. this is the key point of the statement made by my committee, which we would like to see clearly reflected in the final text.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as an italian, and i would like to point out that italy is the fourth largest producer of organic products in the world and the first in the european union. we therefore support the amendments to the regulation which the report makes: the changes relating to the scope, flexibility for member states, controls and free movement of organic products in the european union. as regards labelling, we believe that an organic product must be absolutely guaranteed and that therefore at no stage of the production process there should be accidental contamination by gmos. the rules in force allow for an accidental contamination threshold of 0.9 for organic products, which is unfortunately the same as that for conventional agricultural products. in conclusion, in order to avoid a collapse in consumption due to a crisis of confidence in foods that are selected and purchased precisely because of their characteristics and their naturalness in the production method, a threshold for accidental contamination by gmos for organic products should be defined.
i believe that the measure under consideration can be greatly improved by parliament during the vote in the chamber tomorrow. a measure such as the present one, which sets a contamination threshold of 0.9% for organic products, the same as for conventional products, does not help organic producers, much less consumers. the figures provided by the commissioner also show that this is a measure which could cause serious damage to the organic sector. in fact, if the same threshold is applied to organic products as to conventional products, this creates confusion among consumers, who may no longer be inclined towards organic products, and this is also detrimental to the agricultural production system, which has experienced a great deal of growth in this sector in recent years. i therefore believe that parliament must return to the zero tolerance threshold in order to give these products more and more value, ensuring that they are consumed more and more and that consumers are protected more and more. an organic product with a 0.9% threshold is pointless, and consumers have no interest in buying and spending more for a product that no longer offers the necessary guarantees and is not free from contamination.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i reject the attempt to deny the clear indication of the country of origin on the labelling of products in favour of an eu trade mark which would only serve to hamper traceability. the commission is more concerned with homologating than harmonizing. organic products enjoy a favourable advertising position on the market, thanks to the 'bio' label, and a substantial turnover compared to other products, despite higher retail costs. the labels used so far have produced satisfactory results in terms of differentiating supply and demand. this would be undermined if a common eu trade mark undermined consumer awareness. the regulation must guarantee the independence of certification bodies, particularly as regards relations with operators from third countries. we need an accreditation system based on strict and transparent standards, which is not what the commission wants. in conclusion, the idea of imposing an eu organic logo on products from third countries, without the necessary specification of the regional and national origin of the products, is to be rejected.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for supporting our reports and also stress the importance of this joint discussion, as i believe that the future of football is also fundamentally linked to the safety of stadiums, which is why bringing together the future of professional football with the safety of stadiums is a concrete way of thinking about the future of sport and football. the commissioner is right when he says that in recent years we have seen recurrent and constant manifestations of violence in the stands, which have also transformed the nature of this sport: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of racism and xenophobia in the community. unfortunately, these are not isolated incidents but the effect of a general transformation of football, which has now become a big business, with sports companies listed on the stock exchange and an astronomical turnover of capital. i believe that this element has contributed significantly to a slow transformation of sporting events. football is now very popular and at the same time a major event, so much so that telecommunications companies have invested in acquiring television rights. i support mr belet's proposal for the collective sale of television rights, which i believe is a practical way of preventing the big teams from making a lot of money at the expense of the small companies. there is another fundamental element of football, represented not only by the sporting value but above all by the presence of the public. it would be unthinkable to predict football matches without the public: in some cases extreme measures have been taken which, in my view, have undermined the spectacular aspect of sport. we must therefore insist, since the presence of spectators in stadiums is essential, that football matches are always played in the presence of spectators, which makes it necessary to implement appropriate measures to ensure that matches take place in the greatest possible calm, avoiding manifestations of violence and racism. the recent dramatic events in the italian football championship final between catania and palermo, which resulted in the death of a policeman, are in my view the most serious example of what can happen inside stadiums and of how often violent fan groups lash out, not only against the opposing fans, but also against the police. we have also seen some regrettable events recently, not only among the fans but also among the players: the fight between the sportsmen themselves has often shown a poor way of doing education and culture in european stadiums. preventive action is therefore necessary to prevent such acts of violence in stadiums from happening again, and this action should be given priority over repressive measures and the militarization of stadiums at football matches. the council adopted this decision in 2002 by setting up a national football information point which acts as a contact point for the exchange of police information in relation to international football matches. the results of this action have been very positive, as also demonstrated by the experience in the stadiums and in the reports of the police forces. the number of fans travelling abroad to watch matches has been steadily increasing in recent years and it is therefore necessary for the council to strengthen cooperation between the relevant bodies. i think this is an important step: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. we must prevent the mass of data collected from being used for judicial investigations or for other investigations not related to football, or even as a process of criminalization of all fans. care should therefore be taken in obtaining such data: i think that if we do not, the national broadcasters will be in danger of being transformed from a means of preventing violence in the stadiums into a means of social control, which will be in danger of acting indiscriminately. i therefore support the council's proposal to amend the present decision. we are anxious to ensure that this decision is implemented in full compliance with the law, to avoid that stadiums are considered extra legem territory, a kind of free zone. national and international laws must also apply in the stadiums, in order to prevent the recurrence of acts of indiscriminate violence and of racism and xenophobia.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr catania for his report and mr belet for the work he has done, which i consider to be balanced, although i also share the view that more could have been done. football has now assumed an important and extended role which it is no longer possible to tackle by relying solely on football bodies in the face of the new challenges which are arising. this is why the european parliament has taken up the need to take action to ensure a more balanced development of the football sector, by trying to respond in an up-to-date way to the changes that are taking place. the fact that european football has become increasingly important has, as we have seen, had a certain impact on all the sectors. we think of sponsorships and the value of television rights, of marketing, of the proliferation of international competitions, which in turn affect different sectors, of the new social and cultural problems they generate. i would even say that this new and ever-widening social dimension that modern football incorporates calls into question public behaviour, costumes, doping, violence and racism, the very exploitation of young players. we have spoken about the big clubs, but often we fail to see the scale of the problem, because we focus too much on the big clubs and do not go beyond them, whereas it is especially in the minor leagues that we need to pay more attention than we have so far. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of football in europe. it is right to achieve a more modern governance and to try to enhance the social and cultural role of football in a positive way. the aim we must set ourselves is not so much to invade and replace uefa as to implement policies which will help to govern this world better. but we need to be clear: the demand for autonomy from the football bodies cannot become the idea that everyone does what he wants, outside community law. if we want to combat the distortions and degenerations that are within and accompanying the world of football, as we must, it is important that this joint work be carried out between the political and parliamentary institutions and the sports institutions. we must all do our part to achieve this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too welcome the two reports. it has been said that football is now a big business in europe, but it is also true that it should be something else. however, high salaries, lack of transparency, induced or reactive violence, racism, are the spectacles we often watch with a certain addiction. this puts at risk the educational role of sport, and in this case football. on the contrary, a profound reflection should be made on this role, starting with amateur football or sports practised also in schools, where the positive values of competition must always be associated with respect for the rules. although the eu does not have specific competence in the matter of the interrelationship between football and violence, which is exploding in all its absurdity and often involves the same players, it calls us all to account and urges us to define, as we have tried to do, common measures for the prevention and repression of hooliganism, in collaboration with football associations, uefa and the police forces, to protect the safety of all citizens. but i would say that it also calls us to account for deeper causes, or concauses, which still escape their precise responsibility and which must be identified and tackled.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate and thank mr catania and mr belet for the report they have presented to this parliament. sport, and football in particular, is an essential part of europe's cultural identity, has an undeniable social function and can be a valuable tool in the fight against discrimination, racism, intolerance and violence. however, this function and this positive role are increasingly being undermined today by those who want to make football matches in stadiums another place of violence and terror. the safety of the stadiums must therefore be our priority and the key word must be prevention. i therefore fully support the call in mr belet's report for the member states to introduce cooperation mechanisms between clubs, organised fans and the police to combat the violence and the phenomena of hooliganism and criminal acts which we are witnessing more and more and during matches. i also agree with the need to tighten sanctions against any manifestation of racism and xenophobia in stadiums and to apply appropriate disciplinary measures by uefa and the other leagues against anyone responsible for such acts. but an equally fundamental preventive action is to strengthen and professionalize cooperation and the exchange of information between national broadcasters on the occasion of international matches; monitoring the presence of fans in stadiums who may pose a threat to public order and acquiring data on the nature of organised fan events, which is essential for the host state to be able to carry out an effective risk assessment of the sporting event and, in this way, to prevent public disturbance. it is certainly necessary to avoid abuses in the control of all citizens and to respect the privacy and secrecy of personal data: but protecting the privacy of some cannot come at the expense of the safety of all. nor can it become a cover for the uncontrolled entry of real criminals under the pretext of decriminalising real crimes simply because they are committed in the context of a sporting event. the right balance must be struck between the two opposing demands: but this balance can only be found in respect for individual freedom and in the protection of the rights of everyone, first and foremost the right to safety, including the right to go to the stadium and to enjoy sport in complete peace of mind.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mr belet, for his contribution to the report on the future of professional football in europe. in my view, europe is going through a period of particular uncertainty and reflection, and this is also reflected in a human dimension which is so important for european citizens, represented by sport in general and football in particular, because of its educational function, its role in social and cultural integration and the fight against discrimination. this process of integration is partly due to the positive effects of the bosman judgment, which in 1995 aimed to achieve freedom of movement for sportsmen, also in the field of football. in this context, it should also be noted that professional football constitutes an economic activity recognised by article 2 of the treaty establishing the european community. at the financial level, the integration claimed is not fully implemented, also because of the distortions of competition on the football market, created precisely by the different taxation between the various countries of the union. this is a tax advantage for some countries, which allows their clubs to pay players much higher salaries than can be tolerated by the budgets of other clubs. finally, we cannot but emphasize, again on the football front, that the proposal for a community-wide standardization of the distribution of television rights is not a real priority, in view of the historical, cultural and above all market differences between the various countries of the european union, and in contrast to the principle of subsidiarity, which has a basic value to be respected. president. - i have received a request from the commission to take a decision on the matter. i think it's more necessary now than ever.
, in writing. football is deeply rooted in european identity and culture. it is a very useful tool for social cohesion, non-formal education and economic and territorial development, especially among young people, but not exclusively. but lately, judicial scandals, rigged championships, violence, racism, multi-billion dollar contracts, the dominance of economic interests over sports, have only distorted football from its original spirit and the citizens from football. it is therefore important that the eu acts to detoxify a sector in which we are world leaders and which can continue to be, as well as a cultural expression, a source of economic development, jobs and social cohesion. i hope that football, and sport in general, will in future receive the assistance it needs to regulate the many interests at stake and, above all, to develop and defend, by supporting activities, meetings and events at local and european level (and above all by promoting access for young people, including the disadvantaged), the sports and junior clubs which, everywhere in europe, represent an important instrument for the civic education of our citizens.
, in writing. i express my appreciation and approval of the work done by the rapporteur. the theme of football, and sport in general, is an expression of a sociality and a culture of play typical of western civilization. i therefore believe that the right approach is not to define new legislation but to push the world of football towards forms of self-regulation which involve all those directly concerned, all the participants, including the fans. legal certainty must be sought through guidelines that ensure cooperation and solidarity between all the actors in the entertainment industry. i would like to stress in particular the need to encourage the training of young people, the application of strict disciplinary measures against stadium violence and racism, the involvement of fans in football governance, the identification of a transparent system for controlling costs, fair competition between clubs, insurance protection for the footballer. the european commission is therefore looking forward to the adoption of the white paper on the role of sport in europe and the development of an action plan for european sport in general and football in particular.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is now a strong community acquis in the field of maritime safety, but much remains to be done. the commission wanted to complete the building with a new package of measures to strengthen the prevention of accidents and to take better account of their consequences. and in submitting seven proposals, the commission has taken utmost account of the resolutions on enhancing maritime safety adopted by parliament after the prestige accident. we're responding to it. in this way, european maritime administrations can be exemplary. no ship will be able to evade control in european ports. the control of the controllers, namely the classification societies, will be much more rigorous. a clear chain of decision will allow for the reception instead of refuge of ships in distress. operators will be better able to meet their responsibilities towards their passengers or third parties. finally, the systematic return of experiments by accident will become possible. i am glad that the european parliament shares the ambitious approach proposed by the commission. your rapporteurs have done a remarkable job. the commission remains committed to the simultaneous examination of the seven proposals and to the preservation of the 'package' approach, in order to ensure the effectiveness and consistency of the proposed measures. for technical reasons, you wanted to examine two of these seven proposals in advance. by putting forward a proposal on the responsibility of flag states, the commission intends to fill a gap in the european security system. it is the responsibility of national administrations to ensure that ships flying their flag comply with safety standards. clearly, the situation in europe needs to be improved. it is not normal for member states to be included in the grey, or even black, list drawn up by the paris memorandum. it is not normal that there should be such a wide variation in the detention rates of ships flying the european flag, from 0.9% to 24.14% of extreme cases for the period 2003-2005 according to the figures of the paris memorandum. let's get this straight. it is not a question of imposing a new layer of bureaucratic requirements on operators or national administrations or of adopting new safety rules, but of ensuring that the rules already in force are actually applied. the commission proposal simply seeks to incorporate into community law the rules of the international maritime organisation, which state that flag states implement international conventions, and to make compulsory a measure which is only optional, namely the imo audit scheme. we want to ensure that our maritime administrations have the best quality and thereby influence the quality of our ships. this will help to avoid possible unfair competition between european shipping companies. i'm going to move on to the second proposal. the aim is to give ship owners greater responsibility by strengthening the liability regime. the commission suggests that a minimum set of rules be established which are common to all member states in this area - civil liability and insurance - and that rules be drawn up which actually prevent accidents and repair damage. some may object that there are international conventions on the same subject. to which i would reply that these conventions are imperfect, and from two points of view. firstly, not all of them have entered into force, and in fact they are delaying their entry into force. secondly, even if these conventions were to become fully operational in the future throughout europe, there will still be cases which they will not cover. and then, especially in the background, these conventions have a flaw. they enshrine a principle which urgently needs to be modernized: the limitation of responsibilities. more specifically, these conventions define the threshold beyond which the shipowner loses his right to limit his liability. and the problem is that this threshold is set at a level that is virtually uncrossable, the unpardonable sin. a threshold which cannot be exceeded is a preferential treatment for shipowners to the detriment of victims where the damage suffered exceeds the compensation ceiling provided for in those same conventions. it is also a favourable treatment for the bad ship owners at the expense of the good ones. the owners of ships which are alleged to have committed serious misconduct - on the scale of misconduct, one degree below inexcusable misconduct - causing major pollution, should no longer be able to benefit from this privilege of limitation of liability. our proposal is in line with this. it is therefore both an immediate alternative response to the difficulties of implementing international conventions and a first step towards the modernisation of all these texts. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. i shall be able to answer mrs vicenzi and mr savary, whom i would like to thank very warmly for their excellent work.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, full compliance by the member states with international instruments could solve problems which, as we know, are of an economic and social nature and concern environmental protection. the work of the commission and that which we have done in the committee on transport has tended, in the directive under consideration, to emphasize three main points. the first is the possibility for states to comply with community obligations by means of the conventional instruments already in use to apply international rules. the second: it is not for the states to prove the application of the rules but for the commission to prove the infringement of the provisions and that some administrative discretion, already provided for in the imo provisions, is in fact necessary to adapt the application of the flag state's obligations to national situations. this work, which is the result of direct consultation with the social representatives and the institutional representatives, was appreciated and supported by the committee on transport. i thank all the members, starting with the colleagues who tabled amendments: the amended proposal and legislative resolution were adopted by consensus at the vote at the end of february; the amendments which were accepted, tabled and agreed to have made clear an approach shared by all the political groups, namely that it is possible and necessary to strengthen maritime safety without burdening public administrations. this is the case with the changes to the inspection regime, which are being made optional rather than compulsory, the system of communications to the commission which is being simplified and the guarantees for the training of staff who are required to undertake training at sea. in order to achieve maximum consensus, i did not want to table any further amendments of my own, since the aim is to achieve unanimity of views and a balance of positions in the house, which have already been reached in committee. if the european parliament, commissioner, approves this proposal for a directive and that of mr savary with a broad consensus of votes and content, as we have amended and discussed it, with the political groups firmly aligned in favour of strengthening the erika package, i think we can count on the full response of public opinion, which is now aware of the serious problems linked to maritime safety, and we can overcome the hesitations of the community institutions and the hypothetical backsliding of the european union, which we do not wish today, especially a few days before the very important berlin declaration.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am only here to repeat what my colleagues have already said. maritime safety is too serious an issue to be the subject of tactical attitudes: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. the commission has therefore acted wisely by exploring every possible way to prevent any difficulties and prepare for any eventuality. this is why we believe that all seven proposals - to harmonize the forms of classification, to require states to control the ships they flag, to inspect ships in ports, to monitor the movements of ships, to provide for the means of intervention in the event of an accident, to verify or manage liability, both towards third parties and towards passengers - cannot but be put forward together. the fact that both reports were adopted by a large majority, indeed by a literal unanimity, shows how the sensibilities of the european citizens, whom we are called upon to represent, have been taken into account, and confirms that this is the way forward. the adoption of these first two reports this evening is a message to all the european institutions: i would like to thank the commission, which has put them on the table, for continuing to insist on its position, and the council for showing its willingness to make real progress on maritime safety, so that we do not have to regret in the future - god forbid - that we did not intervene in time when we could have done so to avoid potential disasters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak on behalf of the new psi. yesterday, chancellor merkel presented to us the outcome of the meetings held last weekend in berlin, which resulted in a commitment by all the member states and the three european institutions to renew the union's legal bases by 2009. today javier solana presents us with a broadly shared vision of the way forward for strengthening the union's role in the international arena. i am convinced that the two issues must be tackled jointly and that a credible foreign policy cannot be without a strong legal basis shared by all the actors involved. i therefore believe that the 2009 deadline cannot be extended and that a sustainable solution should perhaps be found in less time. the energy challenge and the various geopolitical instabilities which exist today, some of which are on our borders, cannot be separated from a europe which speaks with one voice and firmness at the un and in all other international forums.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr solana for the information he has given us this morning, but our discussion has once again shown the absence of a common foreign policy and, consequently, of a common security and defence policy for the european union. i therefore express my full solidarity with the united kingdom on the issue of the seamen kidnapped in iran, a solidarity which must also be expressed to other countries. i would point out, however, that if we had a common foreign and defence policy we would certainly have a much greater say in solving international problems. the absence of a common foreign policy also means that in some countries - mine is one of them - because of individual positions, internal political events also take on a rather serious significance. if we continue along the path of the constitutional treaty, which chancellor merkel has started, i think we will be doing something very positive. i would like to draw mr solana's attention to a fundamental point. this morning you mentioned several times the problem of the hypothetical american space shield to be placed on the territory of the republic of poland and the czech republic. it would appear to me, by the way - and i do not know whether this is true - that some of the member states of the union are unlikely to be included in such a space shield, for example italy and greece. i have heard different views on this and it is legitimate. although i am personally in favour of this system, i believe, mr solana, that it is important to get real information, not what you have refrained from giving us. i therefore ask you to provide our subcommittee with all the information you can without delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the call for european unity to strengthen the union's external action is sacrosanct but tautological. what is needed is to understand what and where the forces are which are hindering european unity, because it is obvious that they exist and that they are external and internal to europe. we have heard some of them in this debate. the missiles that washington intends to install in poland - missiles which should be used to shoot down nonexistent iranian missiles - are in fact aimed precisely at european unity with the intention of undermining it if not demolishing it. there is nothing casual about this: it is not a mistake, but a plan prepared by the extremist forces present at the united states of america summit. but such a provocative action could not have even begun if there had not been forces in europe willing to support it. the key to europe's strong international action lies in identifying and neutralising these forces.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say at once that at the meetings of 26 and 27 february and 19 and 20 march the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights examined the credentials of 56 members, whose names are in the annex to the minutes. in view of the number of checks to be carried out and the limited time available to parliament, we thought it appropriate for the committee chairman to make an oral report. the verification procedure shall apply to the 18 members nominated by bulgaria and the 35 members nominated by romania. in addition to these new members, three others were appointed by the competent national authorities to replace those who had left office. the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has therefore given its approval to 56 mandates. i am naturally particularly pleased to be able to report on the validation of the mandates of all the members concerned and i believe that not only the chairman of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, but also the whole of parliament, can welcome the entry of the members of the two new member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rule 155, since my group's amendment no 167 is incorporated in its entirety in amendment no 171 by the pse and since i believe it is important to get as many votes as possible on the objective of eliminating accidental contamination by gmos for organic products, i would like to withdraw our amendment on behalf of my group in the event that we could co-sign amendment no 171 by the socialist group.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the american authorities have released the notorious terrorist luis posada carriles, who has publicly admitted his responsibility for the bombing which, in november 1997, took the life of the european citizen fabio di celmo. carriles himself is held responsible for the bombing that killed 73 people aboard a civilian airliner. in her sentencing, judge kathleen cardone recognized carriles' participation in some of the most infamous acts of the 20th century. why is such a terrorist running around the united states? we must protest against the bush administration which, once again, is using double standards in the fight against terrorism.
that concludes the item on the agenda.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of information on the use of the euro, the exchange of information on the use of the euro and the exchange of information on the use of the euro.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr gauzès, for the excellent work he has done, but also for the dialogue, the style and the ability to coordinate with the political groups, the commission and the council. i also want to say hello to commissioner mccreevy. parliament as a whole has played a decisive role in the payment services directive and, once again, has proved to be the most vital institution at this historic juncture. it is thanks to parliament, thanks to our work, that an agreement has been reached and that the council has adopted as the basis of its work the report approved almost unanimously by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. it is thanks to our role that the obstacles have been overcome and it is thanks to our work - and i would also like to mention the specific role played by the socialist delegation through mrs van den burg, mrs de vits, mrs berès and myself - that some problems have also been tackled in a positive way, such as the issue of granting credit, which is now being linked to the consumer credit directive. i think that the agreement reached in march at the ecofin council, thanks to the tenacity of the german presidency and the work done previously by the finnish presidency, represents a very good result and i think that we must support this position. that is why i am announcing the socialist group's vote in favour, so as to avoid any delay. we cannot allow any further delays which would be to the detriment of consumers, as mrs de vits has said, of businesses and of the banking industry. as regards banks, the commission's investigation is important in order to detect any inconsistencies; however, despite the need to be strict in our judgment, i think it is also right to point out when banks make positive efforts. in fact, banks are making efforts to comply with this directive that are almost equal to those made for the introduction of the euro. a delay would therefore be detrimental to the interests of these subjects and we must, in the vote tomorrow, absolutely avoid that delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the rapporteur and therefore also support the two points which have been added to amendments nos 3 and 17 following the opinion of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, as well as all the amendments proposed by the committee on legal affairs. some people have said that it is not clear why this debate is so heated. it's on because you have to answer two important questions. the first question is this: "does the end justify the means? " i would remind you that we have already stated in article 2 of the oviedo convention on bioethics that the interests and welfare of the human being must take precedence over the mere interests of society and science. the first question is therefore: "since science has the potential to reach new heights, should what it indicates always be implemented? is the fact the right, or is there a rule, an ethic that judges the fact? " the second question is as follows: "human beings are the priority. but who is the human being? " we cannot ignore this question any longer, which is both epochal and planetary, because the whole doctrine of human rights, which everyone says they want to be inspired by, is based on this point: "who is the human being?" when we talk about an embryo, we have to answer the question of whether the embryo is or is not a human being. this is not just any ethical question, but a legal and political question even before it is an ethical one. it is not a quibble, but a serious matter, and doubt should at least make our hands tremble as we vote. since we have already decided that the states can do whatever they want, according to their own vision, i do not see why a different factual view should be imposed through a european regulation. in any case, i would like to invite my colleagues to reflect carefully on a complex issue involving man, not only man who is waiting for new therapies but also man whose body and life itself could be sacrificed for other subjects.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his words on this report. the process of this important directive is finally coming to a close and i would first of all like to thank all those who have devoted themselves over the past few months to an exciting and, i believe, very useful debate, starting with the shadow rapporteurs and all the officials without whom it would not have been possible to deal with such complex issues. this directive has been the subject of much discussion, sometimes knowingly and sometimes inappropriately and without knowing the substance of the matter, also because these are very complex issues. i think it's important to clarify what we're talking about. this is a directive against organised crime and i would stress, finally, against organised crime in its traditional form and in the form it has recently acquired, namely a directive against the damage that crime does to europe through counterfeiting of goods and the infringement of intellectual property. many colleagues have asked me in recent months why we need to harmonize. i would like to say that organized crime has long been an illegal activity that operates globally, knows no borders and can rely on immense resources. on the contrary, the law is fragmented in different and sometimes contradictory legal systems, and is therefore weaker. it has been estimated that the volume of counterfeit goods has increased by 1,600% in the last ten years and i think europe must do something about it, because we are talking about a huge market and very concrete and material things, namely toys, clothes, shoes, food, cosmetics, chemicals, foodstuffs with false names, glasses, compact discs, dvds and other goods, that is, all the goods that european citizens consume every day. as has been said, this phenomenon produces enormous damage. it is harmful to european industries, because obviously counterfeiting alters all the most basic rules of the market and competition, and it is harmful to workers, because obviously those who produce counterfeit goods do so in total and utter disregard of the laws protecting the rights of producers and because counterfeiting of markets on the grounds of recession and unemployment. it has been said that in the last ten years in europe this phenomenon has led to 125,000 new unemployed. the result is damage to the economy through tax evasion and damage to consumers because we in this parliament spend many hours writing regulations to protect european citizens, but not effectively fighting counterfeiting, and we have no tools to enforce these regulations. i think that the counterfeiting of brand names of generic medicines, which are often marketed in developing countries, is a particularly serious form of counterfeiting and i am very pleased that the executive secretary of the world health organisation's anti-counterfeiting task force has spoken positively about the report, because it specifically mentions the health risks and sets a high degree of seriousness for counterfeiting of medicines. so i think we have to move on. i think that the text of the directive is also very innovative compared to the commission's text and that we have reached a positive compromise. i think it is important to have clarified and limited the scope of the directive, for example by excluding patents for which the civil code remains the most appropriate instrument for settling disputes. although this is a very controversial text, i think we must not stop there and that we cannot escape the reality of these arguments. the harmonization of the criminal law is a step forward in the construction of the european single market, which is certainly favoured by rules, but also by measures such as these which prevent the rules from being constantly disregarded. so acting at this level helps and strengthens the identity of a political europe, but above all it strengthens the idea of a europe which is useful to the european citizens. we are coming to this vote in parliament with the comfort of a very broad vote in support of the directive by the legal affairs committee. i therefore hope that a large majority will support this compromise, because at this time powerful interests and lobbies want the european parliament to do nothing, but i believe that it would be damaging to the image and political harm if, faced with a crime as devastating as counterfeiting, the european parliament were to raise its hands and say that europe cannot do anything against this crime. in the past parliament has been at the forefront of the construction of the single market and of political europe, and i am convinced that it will be at the forefront of this too.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zingaretti, for his cooperation and for having tried to mediate in some way on this directive which imposes criminal law on infringement, without a framework of reference for the rules defining infringement itself, and indeed by unifying trademark, patent and copyright infringements. by conflating counterfeiting and counterfeiting with intellectual property infringements, the fight against criminal counterfeiting risks being rendered less effective. it would have been more useful to limit the application of the directive to copyright infringements involving the commercial production of counterfeit multimedia products, which is the domain of organised crime. on the contrary, improper expansion of copyright can pose serious risks to the privacy of consumers of multimedia products. in addition, the directive abandons the concept of commercial scale in copyright, risking the criminal prosecution of private and non-profit-making use of users using the internet for peer-to-peer, video streaming and so on. the directive requires states to take criminal action even without a complaint from the party concerned and gives private parties a direct role in investigations, which goes beyond technical assistance to the authorities and ends up becoming a role of impulse and direction. finally, the directive lacks economic and social analysis. the tightening of sanctions in italy has had no effect. that is why our group proposes that the directive be rejected.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank you for a debate with many valuable and important comments and suggestions. i would like to comment on a few points raised in the debate. the commission considers that the restriction of the scope of the directive to the area of community competence alone is an essential point in order to cover cases under both community and national law. if this were not the case, the implementation of the directive could face considerable difficulties, since community law and national law are closely intertwined. there is a risk that citizens will not understand which law actually applies, which means that legal certainty could be compromised. the commission also considers that all types of intellectual property rights deserve criminal protection. the commission therefore advocates the inclusion of patents. however, this should not impede the implementation of the directive politically. the commission can accept that patents are excluded from the scope of the directive. the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to include a new provision on the protection of intellectual property rights in the directive. with the exception of the definition of legal person, the commission has omitted definitions because they are unnecessary or because they could create legal uncertainty. the commission therefore prefers to leave the member states free to decide in accordance with their respective laws and in the light of the measures already taken by them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the report by mr markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the impact of future enlargements on the effectiveness of cohesion policy (2006/2107 (ini)) (a6-0087/2007) is on the agenda.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to make clear that i read this report as an expression of concern about the need to maintain or, indeed, improve the effectiveness of european cohesion policy while implementing the eu’s enlargement strategy. your debate has also provided many ideas which i will take back with me. i would like to stress three issues that we must remember when having a discussion on cohesion policy in the context of enlargement. firstly, the financial framework and eligibility rules for 2007-2013 have been decided and they will be applied throughout this period, irrespective of any further enlargement. secondly, in 2008-2009, in accordance with the european council conclusions, there will be a review covering all aspects of eu spending and resources. this review will be carried out in close cooperation with parliament and there will also be a broad consultation process. thirdly, on enlargement, i would like to reiterate that the commission – in its communication on enlargement strategy – and the december 2006 european council confirmed that the enlargement strategy is combined with the eu’s capacity to integrate new members. also, the pace of the accession process will depend on the results of the reforms in the negotiating country. the entry of new member states will always be based on their merits. this principle will be respected. we also agreed that the union will refrain from setting any target dates for accession until negotiations are close to completion. the commission will provide impact assessments on the key policy areas in the course of the negotiations. i am open to new ideas, especially with regard to the need for new delivery mechanisms to improve the responsiveness of cohesion policy to a rapidly changing environment and the need for new ways of achieving further synergies between development strategies implemented at community, national and regional level. we must ensure that our cohesion policy ties in with this favourable sustainable national growth policy, the lisbon strategy and the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs. i fully agree with you that we have to explore all those links further. finally, i would like to say that you should not expect my support for any ideas that tend to weaken the community aspect of cohesion policy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union.
the following is the list of the members of the committee on budgetary control appointed by the commission for the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2005/06 (commission 2005/06/2006): the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission for the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2005/06 (commission 2005/06/2006) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2006) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2006) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06/2007 (commission 2006/06/2006) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for the implementation of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2006/07 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for the commissioner for budgetary control appointed by the commission 2006/06 (commission 2006/07 (commission 2006/06/2006) the commissioner for the commissioner for the implementation of the implementation of the budgetary control of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2006/07 (commission 2006/06/2007) the commissioner for the commissioner for the implementation of the implementation of the budgetary control of the budget of the european union for the financial year 2006/07
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat aids, and i am sure that the commission will take them seriously. infections continue to increase and are taking the dimensions of a global epidemic. most worryingly, half of the new cases are people under the age of 25. in europe, more than 50 percent of the population believe that they can contract aids through kissing. this requires communication campaigns designed in scientifically correct language, which clearly inform the population about prevention, protection mechanisms and risk behaviour. we must combat all forms of ghettoization by developing policies and programmes to promote social integration and the entry into the labour market of those affected by the virus. public funding is also needed to promote public health-oriented research and development activities that ensure that research results are accessible to the poorest patients. medicines which are needed to save millions of lives cannot be considered commodities governed by the laws of the market. as the report states, every human being must be guaranteed the right to health care, medical services and access to medicines.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the data on the current state of the fight against aids is shocking: more than 39 million people worldwide are living with hiv, and 4.3 million people were infected in 2006 alone. the european union is also disconcerting, with a substantial increase in infections over the past seven years. a new approach by the national and european institutions is therefore urgently needed to identify prevention measures to target at-risk groups and to support information and sex education campaigns in schools, since half of new infections are young people under the age of 25. at the global level, the european union and the international community have a duty both to ensure access to affordable medicines and treatments for the poorest countries, by fighting against the lobby of the pharmaceutical companies, and to continue research activities in order to develop new innovative antiretroviral drugs, vaccines and microbicides as soon as possible. in the light of these figures, i call on all the member states which have not yet done so, including italy, to release the funds promised to the global fund. it is necessary that the italian government should contribute its financial contribution, in this case eur 260 million, to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria as soon as possible.
i have the honour to welcome to our parliament the former president of mexico, vicente fox, who is present in the gallery.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
the budgetary procedure provides for a specific vote on each report. in order to speed up the vote, i can only avoid calling for the simplified procedure for each report.
we have included a statement which would have been more appropriate to be included in the debate on the report which has already taken place.
i think everything went smoothly. we voted first on paragraph 75, which was approved. we then voted on paragraph 76, again by roll-call, which was approved. i am only now announcing the vote on paragraph 77, which we are voting on by roll call, and i declare the vote open.
i take note of mr bösch's comment, which of course does not prevent us from proceeding with the vote. i call the vote on the discharge for roll call.
that concludes the voting.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased to be back in strasbourg today to discuss with you the dossiers which will be on the agenda in the next few days. before i turn to the individual subjects, i would like to make four preliminary remarks. firstly, the improvement of maritime safety is a common concern of the european parliament, the council and the commission. we have made considerable progress in this area. i refer, among other things, to the improvement in the safety of roro vessels in 2002, the early introduction of double hulls in 2003 and the imminent voluntary abandonment by eu member states of internationally accepted exemptions for single hull vessels. that's good news! secondly, i think it is also important to point out the working conditions of the workers. we have already made important progress in implementing the ilo maritime labour convention of 2006. there is also a great deal of agreement in the european parliament and with the social partners. the third is climate change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. fourthly, we want to strengthen shipping and ports and the related activities of the maritime economy. that is why we adopted an opinion of the transport council on the lisbon strategy on 28 february. the aim is to promote the competitiveness of companies in this sector and thus the european union as a business location. at our conference on an integrated maritime policy in bremen from 2 to 4 may, this will be a major topic and i hope that good proposals will be developed here too, because the subject of maritime policy and integrated measures is also a concern of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve safety at sea. shipping is a crucial mode of transport in the global economy. to ensure its sustainability, the safety and environmental performance of this sector must be continuously improved. the vote in the european parliament tomorrow will allow the council to make further progress in the decisionmaking process. the german presidency of the council is very much interested in the proposals which are now being put forward to improve safety on board ships. we have not only continued but intensified and even accelerated the discussions initiated under the austrian and finnish presidencies. we set realistic goals and focus on what is possible. this concentration on a few dossiers has enabled us to take a number of political decisions for the june council, thanks to the support of the european council and the european parliament. i would like to take this opportunity to present the state of play of our initiatives on maritime safety under the german presidency. the proposal for a directive on a system for monitoring and information on shipping traffic was one of the first to be examined by the council. under the austrian presidency, a general approach was reached in june 2006. since then, the competent council body has examined the amendments adopted by the european parliament's transport committee and identified some points such as the characteristics of the competent authorities and the procedures for accommodating ships in distress at sea which require further consultation. however, there is no doubt that both legislators want to improve maritime safety and prevent environmental disasters. the council hopes to reach a political decision after tomorrow's adoption of the report in june. work on the draft directive on port state control is well advanced. after the finnish presidency was able to set the general direction of the council last december, the german presidency now intends to reach a political agreement at the transport council in june, pending the adoption of your report, which in many respects is very consistent with the council's conclusions. the commission will also take account of the results of the next meeting of the paris agreement's port state control committee, which will meet in bonn the week after next. the negotiations on the proposal for a directive on the liability of carriers of passengers by sea and inland waterway are somewhat more difficult. the finnish presidency has begun to discuss this proposal. the german presidency has not only continued the discussions, but has considerably intensified them. the discussions in the council have shown that the proposal for a regulation is in principle in line with the proposal. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal to extend the scope of the directive to inland waterway transport. there is also some discussion to be had. this concerns not only questions of detail, such as the conditions under which an advance is to be paid, but also the following questions of principle: to what extent should cabotage be included in the regulation? this has to be settled! how should the resolution on the 2002 athens convention, adopted by the imo legal committee last october, be implemented? that is also an open question. how does the regulation compare with the provisions of the international convention on the limitation of global liability, the 1996 convention on the limitation of liability, the ratification of which is envisaged in the proposal for a directive on the civil liability of shipowners which is being discussed by parliament? the council's agreement depends on the clarification of these details and questions of principle. the proposal for a directive on the investigation of maritime accidents has been put back on the agenda during our presidency. the discussions so far have shown the importance which the member states attach to improving the guidelines for technical investigations of marine accidents and their willingness to adopt the relevant community rules rapidly on the basis of the relevant imo code and its current revision. in the light of the discussions currently taking place in the council's various bodies and the report from the european parliament, which you are also voting on today, it will be possible to reach a political agreement on this draft directive at the transport council in june. the proposal for a directive on flag state responsibility was presented by the commission to the council at working level in november 2006. it became clear that the majority of member states did not support this proposal. the dossier will be assessed in the light of the european parliament's opinion of march 2007 and taking into account the principle of subsidiarity in the council. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european maritime safety agency. the german presidency is well aware of the european parliament's desire for further progress. we therefore intend to take the time to start discussing the proposal for a directive on classification societies after the transport ministers' council meeting on 7 and 8 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals. to make progress in the matter, all involved must work together. in this context, i would like to thank the european parliament - that is to say, you, ladies and gentlemen - and, in particular, the rapporteurs, for the rapid work which has enabled the presidency of the council to make progress and achieve its objectives. we shall take the opinion of the european parliament into account in the preparations of the transport council, if this has not already been done, and then we shall also try to make further progress on the dossiers. i thank you for your attention and look forward to the lively discussion i am accustomed to.
the commission's vice-president madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mrs karin roth, who has just shown that the german presidency is very committed to this problem of maritime safety, and i thank her very much for that. in march i presented to you two of the seven proposals in the third legislative package on maritime safety. the debate and vote that followed clearly showed the broad support of parliament. i am confident that the same will be true today of the other five proposals. three of them are part of the preventive part of the package and i will first refer to the amendment of the directive on classification societies. by granting community licences to these companies, we indirectly control almost 90% of the world tonnage. this is how essential the quality of the work of these bodies is. the commission has therefore proposed the establishment of an independent structure responsible for certifying quality control systems. secondly, we are introducing a gradual and proportionate financial sanctions regime. it is a more flexible system than the current system, which only provides for the withdrawal of authorization. this will make it easier for the commission to require the correction of any malfunctions. finally, the certificates accompanying the equipment installed on board ships should be mutually recognised by the approved bodies. this mutual recognition, based on equivalent standards and the highest technical standards, will have two positive effects. it will remove unnecessary barriers to free movement in the internal market and reduce the costs for marine equipment manufacturers of multiple certification procedures. the savings made can be used to the benefit of safety research. beyond the necessary formal simplification of the port state control directive, the commission wants to promote a more efficient use of resources. on the one hand, we want to replace the individual objective of each member state to control 25% of vessels with a collective objective for the whole of europe. in short, we want to control all the ships. on the other hand, we want to inspect ships with a high risk profile more frequently. today, too many substandard ships are still out of control. the new system will avoid this, while rewarding quality vessels with fewer inspections. substandard vessels that transit european waters without calling at a port pose a particular risk. that is why we have wanted to strengthen inspections in the anchorages off the coast. finally, the strengthening of the provisions on denial of access, in particular through the introduction of permanent ban measures, is a strong measure. it is unacceptable that ships are not only detained but also repeatedly banned. the union must make it very clear that it will not accept repeat offenders in its waters. the third text, which strengthens our preventive arsenal, amends the directive on traffic monitoring. the legal framework for places of refuge needs to be clarified in order to improve the efficiency and speed of decision-making in maritime accidents. this requires being prepared to deal with any type of situation involving any type of ship. the crucial point in this respect is the independence of decision-making, a condition for speed and, therefore, a condition for a dangerous situation not to turn into an environmental disaster affecting several states. the aim is also to consolidate the safeseanet network as a europe-wide system for exchanging information on the monitoring of ship traffic and movements of dangerous or polluting cargoes. a final element of the proposal is to gradually equip fishing vessels over 15 metres in length with automatic identification systems to reduce the risk of collision with commercial vessels. many tragedies will be avoided. that is all for the first three proposals of a preventive nature. the last two proposals are aimed at better dealing with the consequences of maritime accidents. the commission proposes that technical investigations be carried out systematically after a maritime accident. it is not a substitute for judicial investigations, but an effective tool for the european union, based on international rules, which will make it possible to better understand the causes of accidents. here again, the question of the independence of the investigating offices is central. the idea is also to promote cooperation between administrations, particularly where several states are affected by the same accident. the european maritime safety agency, which is already working on a common investigation methodology, must help us to set up a framework for systematic community cooperation. the last proposal concerns the compensation of accident victims. the aim is to incorporate into community law the provisions of the 2002 athens convention on the rights of passengers and to extend them to national traffic and inland waterway transport. all european passengers will thus be able to benefit from the protective regime established by the convention, regardless of the mode of transport used and the journey made. i insist on this point. how can it be that a passenger travelling between two ports in the same country is not treated in the same way as another travelling internationally? that is my opening remarks, ladies and gentlemen. i shall then express the commission's position on the reports by mrs vlasto and by mr sterckx, mr kohlíček, mr costa and mr grandes pascual. i would like to thank them in advance for the excellent work they have done. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that if we are to avoid further oil spills, we must now be able to secure the entire chain of maritime traffic and, in this respect, none of these proposals is useless. these seven proposals are necessary if we are to have a really effective system, a system which really allows europe to be an example to the world in the field of maritime safety.
the rapporteur. i believe that the european union is regaining some of the trust of european citizens, partly because it is pursuing a strategy of consumer protection, which in our case means a strategy of protecting travellers, that is, consumers when they travel. this has already happened in the field of civil aviation and i hope it is happening in the railway sector too. i think that is the way the rules of procedure, on which i had the honour of being rapporteur, should be read. it is a regulation which takes some important small steps towards harmonizing the protection of passengers and their baggage. to this end, it seeks to make compulsory, or at least to extend, the application of the athens convention, which already governs this field as regards the definition of rules and liability, and the imposition of compulsory insurance for all those who transport people, identifying forms of immediate response in the event of an accident with timely and satisfactory compensation. the regulation in question goes a few steps further than the athens convention. i do not want to dwell on the technical aspects at this stage, but i would like to stress that the scope of these protections is being extended. the athens convention could only deal with international transport. however, the baltic and the mediterranean are basins in which many transports have the character of inland transport. moreover, following the enlargement of the union to bulgaria and romania, the major european inland waterways must now be treated in the same way. that is why i have supported and continue to support - and i hope that parliament, the council and the commission will do the same - the extension of the coverage of passenger protection to domestic transport. as far as internal transport is concerned, the few obstacles that have been put up have virtually disappeared since the last accident, which occurred in early april with the sea diamond near the island of santorini. we cannot imagine that the two missing persons are not protected, which they would be if they had disappeared in the atlantic or indian ocean. it is clear that this discrimination is not possible. as i see some residual difficulty in accepting the extension of protection to inland waters, i hope we will not have to wait for an accident on some river before deciding to extend coverage to inland transport. it seems to me that we cannot imagine protecting the people who travel on a large riverboat any differently from those who travel on a small ship in the seas we protect. moreover, if we consider the technical aspect of some ships that now make river and sea routes, it would be quite ridiculous that they should be covered only when they are at sea and not on rivers. i therefore believe that the regulation we are adopting is a two-pronged approach, in that it also takes account of this aspect of maritime safety, thereby making it easier for those who travel by sea to do so. i would point out that people with reduced mobility are better protected, that anyone who has an accident is compensated immediately, that there are also limits to the liability of the carrier, because if he adopts the athens convention he has no unlimited liability, and so on. there are a thousand other aspects, but the fundamental one is that we treat all european citizens equally when they are travelling, whether on international routes, on national routes, on inland waterways or even outside european waters when they are covered by european provisions. in view of this, i hope that we can move forward in this direction, and thus gain the attention and recognition of the european citizens who can look to this part of the union's activity which continues to provide useful and important answers to all citizens and which, in some way, also makes up for other shortcomings in a more general debate that we are currently holding.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i am not saying anything new when i stress that the issue of maritime safety in the territorial waters of the european union is unfortunately a constant and sometimes dramatic issue. only three months ago the 45th accident in half a century occurred in the straits of messina, one of the most crucial points of shipping in the mediterranean. the accident, which involved a ferry and a hydrofoil, has again caused deaths and injuries. this massacre might have been avoided if the sophisticated ground-based radar system, which is supposed to monitor maritime traffic, had been fully operational. the only system which is now monitoring traffic in the straits of messina is the ais, the automatic satellite vessel identification system, which is compulsory for vessels over 300 tonnes. in this connection, the committee on fisheries, with a view to improving the safety of fishermen and their vessels - i would remind you that many serious maritime accidents are caused by commercial vessels not seeing fishing vessels - approved in its opinion an amendment which calls for the mandatory use of the ais system for all new fishing vessels. as regards existing vessels, provision should be made for financing, particularly for small vessels, since most of the vessels operating in the mediterranean are owned by small businesses which are already in serious economic difficulties and have had to make immense sacrifices in order to adapt to the policy of fishing with the so-called 'blue boxes'. madam president, commissioner, hoping for the development of maritime transport means therefore guaranteeing the safety of everyone and everywhere, of passengers and workers on board, in inland waters and not, but also means increasing controls and tightening penalties for infringers. the vote in this house can therefore be a concrete proof of europe's will to move in this direction.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, maritime safety, which is the subject of five directives which parliament is called upon to adopt, forms the package of measures which is praiseworthy in that it aims at better prevention and more efficient response to maritime accidents and at managing their environmental impact. in my view, it is good to incorporate the 2002 athens convention into community law, thereby making the liability of carriers and the insurance cover of passengers and their baggage objective. the right guarantees are given to users and a kind of safety cycle is also set in motion, which stimulates greater monitoring of navigation and equipment and safety procedures, precisely because the various maritime transport operators are involved. as regards the sterckx report in particular, i think it would be appropriate to develop the european system for the exchange of information and the use of the automatic identification system for fishing vessels, provided that there is then concrete support from 90% of the union for the instrumental adaptation of fleets, especially for the benefit of small operators. i do not, however, approve of the desire to deprive the national states of their freedom of action in the field of emergency management and the procedures for receiving ships in distress. i do, however, agree with the text of the amendment which states that a state cannot waive its obligation to assist ships in distress. i also agree with what mr vlasto and the commission are suggesting about further strengthening the inspection regime for ships and the associated risk profiles. in conclusion, i welcome all the steps towards a continental policy on the sea and safety in terms of human, environmental and economic resources, all those which promote the improvement and harmonization of the performance of maritime administrations, and the promotion of registration under the union flag.
member of the commission. the question has nothing to do with the issue we are discussing, but i am pleased to hear your questions and to have the possibility of answering them. first, i want to clarify that the commission is not even dreaming of increasing or harmonising the corporate tax rate – that is very far from our intention. what we have in mind, and what we have already tabled as a general proposal – not even a legislative proposal – is the harmonisation of the tax base only, i.e. the calculation of the tax base, which is now different in each and every member state. we have 27 different ways of calculating the tax base, which results in enormous compliance costs and administrative burdens for companies. the lack of consolidation and of transparency makes it very difficult, or senseless, to compare the corporate tax rate of ireland, which is 12.5 %, with the corporate tax rate of france, which is over 30 %, because we cannot compare the two tax bases. we have no intention of harmonising the tax rates, only the method of calculation of the tax base, and certainly we have no power to force things. if the present legislative proposal, according to our time schedule, receives unanimity in early 2008, then of course ireland, and all the other member states, should comply. if there is no consensus – and i think that at least at the beginning there will be no consensus – then what we can do is to present a new proposal, not for all the 27 member states but only for those who want to join. that is what we call enhanced cooperation. enhanced cooperation is optional. only those member states that agree with the purpose of the exercise would participate, and ireland, according to the best of my knowledge, will not be among the countries that will champion participation. however, i believe that after a while, when the positive experiences are well known, then even those member states that are reluctant for the time being and that will not join at the beginning of the enhanced cooperation can join later, because one of the conditions of enhanced cooperation is to leave the door open for other member states who may wish to join in at a later stage.
vice-president of the commission. the subject of the european schools is one of the most complicated issues in my portfolio. the board of governors of the european schools created a central enrolment authority in order to deal with the very difficult situation caused by the host country concerning the offer of a site for the fourth school in brussels. the commission has constantly worked in favour of a clear and objective enrolment policy with the necessary degree of flexibility and with the possibility for parents to appeal. the commission has also kept parents and their representatives regularly informed during the school year. therefore, the commission does not share the opinion of the honourable member that it has neglected its responsibilities. as clearly stipulated by the board of governors in its communication adopted in january 2007, the enrolment policy for 2007-2008 will apply for this school year only. the enrolment policy for next year will be based on an in-depth analysis and the close monitoring of the situation during and after the first year of functioning of the berkendael european school. the policy will also take into account all the pertinent elements and the progress of the pupils of the different european schools in brussels during the 2007-2008 school year. the secretary-general of the european schools prepared clear procedures for individual appeals and submitted a proposal to the board of governors to be approved at its april meeting, in order to give parents the possibility to make appeals during the current enrolment campaign. a proposal to modify the general rules of the european schools in order to extend the powers of the complaints board to decisions related to enrolment was discussed by the mixed pedagogical committee in march 2007, the administrative and financial committee on 19 to 21 march 2007 and the central enrolment authority on 28 march before being submitted to the board of governors on 17 april. prior to the submission of the proposal to the board of governors, the commission requested that the necessary measures should be taken to ensure that deadlines for replying to the appeals are compatible with the calendar of the beginning of the next school year. the commission is pleased that an interim ruling was adopted by the board of governors on 17 and 18 april and that shorter deadlines for the potential lodging of appeals by parents have been set. during that meeting, the commission nevertheless insisted that an evaluation of the changes to procedures and to the necessary means of the complaints board is carried out as soon as possible in order to meet the requirements associated with the extension of its powers.
substitute writer. mr president, i would like to thank commissioner kallas. i would like to ask the commissioner whether, if the majority of parents of pupils who are currently expected to go to berkendael do not give their consent to their children being enrolled in this temporary site, the commission intends to pursue the policy of filling up the berkendael site at all costs? are there any alternatives? is it possible, for example, to implement the requests for restricted access to the historic schools in brussels, as the parents' associations have asked for? if so, how might they be chosen?
the agenda for the joint debate includes the following items: - the commission statement on the multilateral agreement on the establishment of a common european aviation area, and - the report by mrs eva lichtenberger, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the multilateral agreement between the republic of albania, bosnia and herzegovina, the republic of bulgaria, the republic of croatia, the european community, the republic of iceland, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the kingdom of norway, serbia and montenegro, romania and the united nations interim administration mission in kosovo on the establishment of a common european aviation area (com (2006) 0113 - c6-0218/2006 - 2006/0036 (cns)) (a6-0060/2007).
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
the commission's statement on galileo is on the agenda.
the commission's vice-president mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky for her willing support of this programme, but also for being very vigilant because she has always asked the right questions about it. i would like to make it very clear to parliament that i do not believe, mrs hall, that the problem is that there is only one consortium. the real problem is that the galileo programme was launched with a public/private partnership which may have been insufficiently developed. the public/private partnership is always based on a very specific business plan and i would add that in the united states, space independence was acquired from the military budget of the army, which subsequently allowed nasa to develop its services. so i think we have to ask ourselves the fundamental questions now. should the public/private partnership, even if we keep it, have exactly the same dimension? that's the problem. i do not believe, madam, in my heart and soul, that the fact that there are one or two consortia is the real problem. the real problem today is whether the galileo applications provide such added value as to justify a commitment by the union at the level where such an engagement is envisaged. i also heard that galileo might be useless. we must ask ourselves whether we want the european union to have not only independence in space but also a whole series of advances in everyday life from which the citizens will benefit. it is not a prestige programme, it is a programme that is fundamentally about meeting needs, and i am well placed to know how much we could benefit from the galileo programme in the field of transport. i have undertaken, mr president, to keep parliament regularly informed of the progress of our discussions. i have to tell you, i've really taken this case very personally; i really want to lay it out so that it's clear that if we have to change the scenario we designed in the first place, it's to make sure it's successful. mr glante, in particular, spoke of the benefits to citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises which galileo will offer new opportunities: you are right, that is the heart of the matter. we need to know what the added value of galileo is and what all the applications are that can be implemented. we're studying all this very carefully. that is all i could say tonight, but i will remain at the disposal of parliament to explain this exciting but difficult subject.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the minutes have been tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on transport and tourism on the common position defined by the council on 11 december 2006 with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 (14039/1/2006 - c6-0041/2007 - 2005/0191 (cod)) (rapporteur: paolo costa) a6-0134/2007).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, i am sorry that the transport live night show is not the council's favourite, since it is to the council in particular that i would have liked to address myself. i think that what i am going to say to my colleagues and to the vice-president of the commission is well known and i think it is also shared, and we know that we have some problems with the council. parliament welcomed with great interest and understanding the commission's proposal to revise the rules which seek to deal with the problem of security against any attack on airports, aircraft and the aviation system. the commission has approached this matter with great openness, bearing in mind that we are about to carry out an important task, namely to build a single safety system, which reduces the inconvenience to passengers and allows for the extension of safety and better organization to this end. i think i can say that we have also made some improvements, trying to define the limits within which we can allow people with weapons on board and trying to solve the technical problems of the difference between conventional and postal freight, to identify the ways of organizing inspections at airports and to consider many other technicalities. however, we have come up against a problem in which i still cannot understand the logic of the council's opposition. the theme is very simple: security is both a private and a public problem. each of us, when we travel, has an interest in traveling safely. however, where security can be affected by terrorist attacks, it is clearly in the collective interest to defend against such attacks. in the united states, for example, this is considered a matter of public concern and is entirely the responsibility of the taxpayer. in this connection, we reiterate the idea which we have put forward - and which we are perhaps still insisting on - that the principle should be accepted that the costs of security should be borne by the citizen who travels and by the states which defend themselves, including in infrastructure and aircraft, all the more so as we were merely asking for this principle to be accepted, leaving it to each member state to decide how to combine the two sources. as a second principle, we asked that the costs borne by the citizen for security be transparent and clearly defined, and as a third principle we asked for a guarantee that any surcharge paid for security was actually used for security. we have only asked for these three principles to be accepted, renouncing the interinstitutional agreement signed in 2001, according to which the commission would have had to submit much more detailed proposals to deal with the problem of security financing, which would then of course also have been accepted by the council. we have not had an answer on this point and have not been able to reach a conclusion. i hope that tomorrow, if the house cannot repeat the unanimous vote in committee, it can at least find a large majority that shows not the strength but the good will of parliament to find a real solution to the problem for all european citizens. i would stress that unfortunately security is an issue we will have to live with. hiding behind the scenes and pretending that the problem of its financing does not exist is not an answer to the times, the problem and our expectations. we are therefore in favour of a more technically advanced organization in the field of security, but we ask that this problem be solved at least in principle. if we can achieve this as soon as possible, i believe we will have done what is in the best interests of our citizens.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment and management of flood risks (12131/6/2006 - c6-0038/2007 - 2006/0005 (cod)) (rapporteur: richard seeber) (a6-0064/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to thank mr seeber for the cooperation we have established in the discussion and development of this document. i would also like to thank commissioner dimas, because his presence at these moments is always extremely valuable and very much appreciated. this is a directive which i consider very important also in the context of other directives such as the water directive, the waste directive and the soil directive which is about to be discussed. these directives form a very important framework for prevention, particularly with regard to climate change, a phenomenon which is caused by global warming and which consists essentially of an increase in the severity of extreme events, such as an increase in the intensity of rainfall. it is therefore necessary that we adopt a widespread attitude of prevention, especially in the maintenance of our territory. the directive in question is in this sense, as it has sought to highlight good practices that can be disseminated, as well as the set of infrastructures and knowledge that can contribute to the long-term prevention and short-term forecasting of floods, in order to provide important assistance to civil protection in emergency management. this is a directive which i think is very agreeable and i also approve of the compromise reached in the trilogue. i therefore call on my group to support the text under consideration.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mrs kartika tamara liotard, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources (2006/2210 (ini)) (a6-0054/2007).
mr liotard, you can be sure that this parliament has listened to you with all the quality it is capable of at this hour.
before i give the floor to commissioner dimas, i would like to inform mr liotard that i have read the rules of procedure and that it is not necessary for you to include the two shoes you used for the example for the purpose of drawing up the minutes, so you can keep them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the german presidency has brought an improved climate to transatlantic relations and a very strong commitment to combating terrorism. all this contrasts, for example, with the policy of one member state, namely the foreign policy of the prodi-d'alema government, an ambiguous, very dangerous and perhaps even suicidal policy. a government that is friendly to hezbollah and that is in dialogue with hamas, not to mention the support given to chávez and morales, as well as the ambiguous negotiation with the taliban for the release of a journalist. all this is contrary to the improvement of transatlantic relations and makes european policy ambiguous. i believe that the europe of peoples which we are trying to represent does not want to be subordinated to the united states in all areas, for example in the matter of gmos, trade policy and the turkish dossier, on which we call on the united states to give further thought. i think that europe's relations with the united states should be based on a policy of full solidarity, mutual trust and loyalty, in accordance with edmund burke's vision, because what binds us together are the deep values with the deep, true and real america, which is anchored in its tradition, its historical and religious and cultural values.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today in italy we are celebrating the day of national liberation, the end of dictatorship and war. however, we could not remember april 25, 1945 if there had not also been the sacrifice of thousands and thousands of young americans. without the commitment of the united states, europe could not have defeated communism after nazism. in the debate on transatlantic relations we cannot forget those who fought for our freedom because they share the fundamental values of our western society. that is why relations with the world's most important democracy must be at the heart of european policy, from the fight against terrorism and security to the fight against drug trafficking, from the pursuit of energy freedom to the question of climate change. in this context, europe must support merkel's proposal for the creation of a transatlantic free trade area. i am also convinced that the creation of a future european army should not be in conflict with nato, which is a useful instrument for the un and for the security of all of us. however, just as europe needs america, america cannot do without a strong europe, capable of being a loyal, credible and reliable partner and an indispensable player in the defence of the common values on which our democracies and the democracy of the united states are based.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the whole of mr swoboda's report. the breakthrough in cooperation with the hague tribunal has certainly been significant, but the government and all croatian political forces need to make a further effort in public opinion to help close the page on nationalist claims once and for all. we are in favour of croatia's future accession because we want that country, by consolidating its membership of europe and sharing its values and policies, to be able to increase its contribution to the stabilization of the western balkans, to which italy attaches fundamental importance. in this sense, it is not helpful to reopen painful wounds. we want to encourage, as the report says, a broad truth and reconciliation process involving all the parties concerned in croatia and the balkans. the legitimate demands of the minorities in croatia, including italy, must be met in full compliance with international law and all community rules, as is foreseen in the current negotiations. their full integration into all levels of the country's life remains a key objective. we will continue the negotiations for that reason too.
chairman of the committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on legal affairs, i would like to assure parliament and all the members that as soon as this matter comes up for consideration - i hope so soon - (interruption)... as soon as the presidency has given the commission the details of this matter, we shall examine all the papers carefully, with the great sensitivity to parliament's autonomy which is characteristic of the committee on legal affairs, and we shall once again guarantee the autonomy of this parliament and the possibility that its members, who represent europe, will be protected in their autonomy and freedom.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am only saying this for the sake of clarity, and as rapporteur i would ask you to vote against all rollcall votes other than those tabled by the committee. i am doing this to avoid the european union having to intervene the next time there is an accident on some major european river, because if we do not extend consumer protection to this sector too, that could happen.
we will forward your comment to the appropriate person and see that you get an answer.
in writing. we voted in favour of the compromise amendments tabled by the alde group together with the pse and gue, because we believe that only the rapid adoption of european regulations on advanced therapies can guarantee millions of citizens who are waiting for effective treatment and freedom of scientific research. doctors and researchers must be able to operate within a secure regulatory framework, which recognises their work on a european basis and guarantees access to care for all patients who need it. the european parliament has rejected by a large majority the so-called 'ethical amendments', which are in fact anti-scientific and have the sole aim of delaying and preventing the adoption of legislation which would make european scientific research more effective and competitive and give hope to the sick. any ethical objections are largely overcome by the fact that the independence of the member states guarantees the power to impose restrictions on research, as is still the case in italy with regard to the use of embryonic stem cells. today's vote is therefore nothing but a necessary step towards ensuring equal access to care for european citizens, giving a glimmer of hope to the many who today are forced to make costly journeys to find better care, while strengthening freedom of science.
in writing. as radical members of the alde group, we voted with our group against mr zingaretti's report because we believe that, in applying criminal provisions to copyright infringement for the first time, caution and counterbalances are needed, which have not been found in the amendments voted. the fight against international counterfeiting organizations and mafias is certainly a priority, but the risk of criminalising tens of millions of citizens, perhaps simply by exposing to reckless criminal proceedings those who use the internet to download music on peer-to-peer networks, is a policy that is far from reality and counterproductive even to the objective of fighting criminal organisations. as the alde group we had put forward pragmatic amendments to make the ratio more balanced, by reducing the scope of the directive to copyright and trademarks and by clearly indicating aggravating circumstances, such as organised crime or attacks against public health and safety, which trigger criminal sanctions. we also tried to limit the mandate of the 'joint investigation teams', which would give companies the power to participate actively in the investigation and the formation of evidence.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the commission and the council, i have 60 seconds to deal with the important subject of the moratorium on the death penalty. since i shall not be able to deal with this subject as i should, i shall immediately document elsewhere the real deception, the real betrayal of rules and oaths by the council in these ten years. the united nations has been trying for 14 years to prevent the proclamation of a moratorium on the death penalty. in 1994 we lost by four votes against the moratorium resolution, four votes by fundamentalists who wanted to abolish the moratorium against the reality of the moratorium which had already been achieved. mr president-in-office of the council, 14 years ago there were 97 states in favour of the death penalty at the un. today there are fifty-one. since 1988 we have been showing you that there is a secure majority, and i do not care whether for the sake of china, america or a europe which is again not european, you are breaking your obligations to parliament. at 6.30 p.m. i shall demonstrate to the press that you have made a very serious attempt at fraud in the council on 16 and 17 april against what you have declared to be acceptable. i have no italian word for it, it's a real forgery, and that's what i'm accusing you of: "ouch, that's not it, ouch, you're not it!"
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on development on the human rights financing instrument, i have particularly stressed the role of democracy and respect for human rights in the economic, political and social development of many third countries. the report we are considering, however, is an opportunity to look at our own home, where incidents of religious, racial and gender intolerance are unfortunately still commonplace. children abandoned on the streets or in run-down institutions, domestic violence and homophobic incidents, to name just a few, remain a problem and therefore action to reduce these phenomena must be encouraged. as regards the external dimension, there is a clear lack of coherence between the intentions and good intentions of the one hand and trade policies, development aid and foreign policy on the other. in latin america, aid is focused on trade and higher education, while millions of children are denied access to or are dropping out of primary education. i would remind you that literacy is a right and one of the millennium development goals. in relations with china, the united states or russia, too often the human rights chapter is not given the attention it deserves. the seriousness of the situation in certain countries such as cuba and belarus, as well as the resolutions and urgent debates of parliament, are underestimated. the 2006 report therefore seems more like a list of what has not been done than a series of successes. however, it should be stressed that until the union has a single strong voice in foreign policy, many of its objectives are destined to remain so.
i think it would be very hypocritical if the european parliament did not discuss this issue today, that is, if we did not discuss the fact that public demonstrations and statements of homophobia have increased in europe in recent years. the polish minister's statements are embarrassing and follow the same government's ban on gay pride. despite public outrage, the minister has never denied his serious allegations. unfortunately, this is not the only case in europe. in civilized europe, manifestations of intolerance are on the increase, we often read of cases of violence against men and women because of their sexual orientation, or we witness helplessly the serious manifestations of bullying, which are repeated more and more often in the school world and which can sometimes lead young people to suicide, as recently happened in italy. that is why politicians cannot show signs of intolerance and make statements such as those of the polish minister, because that would risk legitimising homophobic approaches. this is true of politics but also of the church hierarchies, which more and more often do not miss an opportunity to express their aversion to homosexuals, putting these people in the category of sin. no discrimination is acceptable, and even more so discrimination based on sexual orientation. this parliament has rejected rocco buttiglione for his claims. i think we need a strong message from the commission to keep its promises by taking concrete measures against all forms of discrimination. the history and culture of europe owe much to the sensibilities of men and women who have been persecuted by authoritarian regimes and who are still being criminalised in europe by reactionary and racist cultures. we owe a great deal to sappho, pasolini, oscar wilde, michel foucault, andré gide, and i find it very sad that if it depended on these obscurantist cultures, these great artists would not even be able to speak. i believe, and i hope this parliament agrees, that a culture against homosexuals is unacceptable and must be vigorously combated.
i would like to thank mr deprez for the work he has done, which has enabled us to approve his report at first reading, which shows his ability to mediate with the groups, with the council and with the commission. i would like to thank him, although i retain my reservations about this regulation, because i think that it is really only intended to give a role to frontex, this little cart which has been set up by the community institutions and which until yesterday had no role. i believe that the establishment of the rapid response teams is purely a propaganda action, because it is clear that the real emergency in the european union with regard to irregular immigration flows does not come from southern europe and from boats arriving by sea. this is amply demonstrated by all the data and statistics at our disposal. the european commission also indicates that only 14% of the irregular migrants living in europe arrive by sea. the need for these rapid response teams is therefore not understood. this applies also to the countries of the south, to italy, to spain and also to malta, a country which we should be helping. commissioner borg certainly knows better than i do that we should try to help malta, perhaps by amending the dublin ii regulation, and not by asking for rapid response teams which will have difficulty in intervening in the sea and distinguishing whether the sea is italian or maltese. i therefore believe that we should try to implement a coherent and serious policy on this matter, perhaps by changing our approach. i therefore reiterate that the only serious function that these rapid response teams can have is to save lives at sea. mr deprez, the issue is not whether the police are good or bad. in recent years it has been amply demonstrated that the number of tragedies at sea has increased. there are statistics that show irrefutably that thousands and thousands of people are drowning in the mediterranean sea and the atlantic ocean. i therefore believe that we need rapid response teams whose priority is to rescue the many men and women who are trying to reach europe. i do not think it is superfluous to stress this need in this report and i therefore invite the house and mr deprez to support my amendment, which unequivocally reiterates that one of the priority functions of these teams must be rescue at sea. i believe that if we adopt this approach we can make a real contribution to making immigration policy and external border control a joint action which is useful for the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr deprez, for his commitment to this report and to express my warmest congratulations to him for having succeeded in such a short time in reaching a compromise with the council on a subject of such importance and urgency. the waves of illegal immigration such as those observed last summer at the southern borders of the european union affect not only the states concerned but all the member states of the union and, as mr catania is aware, the urgency of tackling and solving the problem is felt in sicily. in the coming months, as in previous years, the landings of illegal immigrants on the island of lampedusa, as well as on the other islands, will take place without interruption during the day and at night, in adverse weather conditions and in a very precarious security situation. effective management of external borders therefore requires realistic prevention policies for internal security and to combat the phenomenon of illegal entry and trafficking in human beings. the creation of rapid border intervention teams is the first concrete instrument of common action based on solidarity, respect for human rights and mutual assistance between the states, which are called upon to participate by making financial and human resources available. our national police forces cannot be left alone with the heavy task of defending the frontiers, but also and above all of receiving and rescuing illegal immigrants. our citizens cannot continue to live in insecurity and precariousness and they are constantly asking us for concrete measures to counter the organized criminal groups which manage these illegal flows, all too often fuelling the black labour market and prostitution. to meet these demands, i hope that the rapid response team officers will be able to get to work as early as this summer. at the same time, we must continue to work on this front and to seek the best solutions to immigration. i do not think that the italian government's draft law is going in that direction, since rather than engage in a serious fight against the underground with us, the government prefers to pursue contradictory and improvised policies which will have serious repercussions throughout the union. in the urgency of ensuring continuity between the european union and its member states, i urge you, commissioner, to keep this burning issue high in the agenda, so that the priority commitment of solidarity towards the weakest is increasingly combined with a growing need for security.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i think we have achieved an important goal tonight, because the agreement on rapid border intervention teams has shown that all the institutions of the european union have understood that illegal immigration is a problem which cannot be dealt with only by regions exposed to massive migratory flows because of their geographical location. as we have had occasion to point out in the report on the islands which was adopted in this house, europe could not continue to remain indifferent to the permanent emergency of regions such as my own sicily, with the peak being lampedusa, the canary islands or malta, which are unbearably burdened by the landing of illegal immigrants. it could not remain indifferent to the human tragedy of the boats of fortune sinking in the mediterranean, nor to the organized crime that exploits the despair of those peoples. with the opening of internal borders, the external borders are our common border, so that only at european level can adequate and long-term solutions to the immigration question be found. the creation of rapid response teams is only a starting point. europe will have to move swiftly towards the adoption of a policy on legal immigration, as a matter of such importance cannot be left to governments alone. the italian government has just passed a law which changes and amends previous legislation, but these are not solutions which can be definitive and which can lead to the reception and construction of a better future. europe as a whole must do the opposite. it must define a legal immigration policy capable of managing all the flows which, like the wind, cannot be stopped but must be governed.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, too often immigration is advertised as a resource, even as an indispensable one, and its dramatic effects on those who actually suffer from it are overlooked. the peoples and states often see leaving not the poorest but the young educated, and, beyond all demagogy, people who are potential vehicles for crime in the 'host' countries. the need for common rules on the tasks of border guards and rapid reaction teams is explained by the waves of individuals pressing on the union's borders. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. italy has even decided to welcome anyone who shows up at its borders, without anyone guaranteeing employment and hospitality! in this context, i wonder what the measures announced are for. in italy, they will only be used for assistance and will help to bring in people who will then go and fatten the coffers of the ngos. what is the use of a european agency for managing cooperation at the external borders if the immigration policies of the member states are so different? nothing but to spend more taxpayers' money and to make demagoguery that produces only discomfort and social disorder.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of sustainable public finances in the countries of the union is essential not as an end in itself but as a means of achieving the european social model, which is characterised by research, investment, innovation and competitiveness, social cohesion and environmental and energy sustainability. the new and revised stability and growth pact should not be seen as the only instrument for the coordination of the economic policies of the european union, but must be combined with the integrated guidelines for growth and employment and the objective of political and economic coordination of the euro area. the text we are going to adopt will be all the more significant if it allows for uniform procedures, common parameters and a joint discussion of the budgetary projections. this does not mean, however, that we want a purely accountancy approach. the verification of the reduction of the deficit and the public debt must take place taking into account rigorous choices, but also proactive choices of sustainable economic and social development. i would also point out that the wording of the request for a declaration of national unconstitutionality by the member states of the excessive deficit situation is very questionable, also from the legal point of view of the formulation of the subsidiarity relations between the union and the member states. in conclusion, i think it is important to reiterate what the role we want is, namely to lay the foundations for a sustainable european public finance system geared to growth.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on relations between the european union and the swiss confederation offers us an interesting and opportune opportunity to reflect briefly on what we can learn from the ancient democracy of the small but historically important swiss federal republic. the swiss federal tax system, if it were well known to the taxpayers of the member states of the european union, would be - as it is objectively - a model to be imitated, especially in the protection of economic freedom. i would remind the taxpayers of the member states that swiss legislation is based on important principles, such as the principle of legal equality, the principle of economic freedom and, above all, the principle of the guarantee of property. the principle of legal equality requires that taxation be proportionate to economic capacity. the principle of economic freedom provides that the collection of certain taxes on trade, which would be prohibited in the context of commercial policy, is prohibited by constitutional rules. finally, the important principle of the guarantee of property, enshrined in article 26 of the federal constitution, prohibits the tax burden when it takes the form of confiscation, so that the guarantee of property constitutes a limit to taxation. this is what the member states must learn, which, like the italian state, still oppress the taxpayer with tax legislation and a tax burden that in italy exceeds 40%. we must learn from this great historical experience the principles of economic freedom contained in the swiss constitution. we padanians are lucky to be neighbours of these free men of switzerland. finally, we should also think of the principle of freedom of religion, which prevents non-religious people from being required to pay taxes for religious services, and the fundamental right to express one's will directly by means of a referendum on taxes. it is time to end the tax dictatorship of the states over the taxpayers! the people's vote on taxes!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking mrs herranz garcía for her work and for the commitment with which she has completed this report. as regards content, i think it is in everyone's interest to have some guiding principles which characterize our work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point is that all the measures, directives, projects and plans which are drawn up by the community institutions must take account of the fact that disabled people also live in our countries and that they always represent an important part of all the measures which we have to take. the third point relates to the need to give economic and social dignity to all those who are involved in the care sector. i believe that there is now a widespread awareness in all countries that the real answers to the problems of disability are to assess the residual abilities of each person and to make them available to the whole community. this is the best answer for the disabled and for all of us. we are working to ensure that our countries have ever higher rates of economic growth and development, because we believe that only a community rich, culturally and economically, can give the answers that these worlds expect.
mr president, to the fourth line where it says that the declaration was signed by 85 countries, i would like to add the word 'initially', so that the line reads 'declaration which was initially signed by 85 countries'.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, the philippines has ratified the key international human rights covenants and conventions. the government of the philippines respects the fundamental human rights of its citizens. the abolition of the death penalty in june 2006 is also a positive development. the eu has also done this time and again. nevertheless, there is cause for concern. in 2006, killings and kidnappings of journalists, left-wing political activists, civil rights and church leaders increased significantly across the country. the opposition reports extrajudicial executions and blames the government and its security apparatus. at least the government is accused of not doing enough to investigate the crimes. the government, for its part, denies these allegations and suspects at least partial purges within the militant left camp. the most prominent recent victim was the highly critical bishop alberto ramento. the murder was reported solved the day after the fact. it is said to have been a robbery-murder committed by youths. the bishop's entourage expressed strong doubts about this and criticized the inadequate and unprofessional evidence. shortly before her trip to europe in the summer of 2006, president arroyo appointed a commission headed by former supreme court justice josé melo to investigate the series of murders of politically active government critics. the melo commission report was released in february 2007 after massive public pressure. he confirmed the allegation of a lack of intelligence and assigned the main responsibility to the armed forces. the same conclusion is reached by an investigation by un special rapporteur alston. the eu has repeatedly and clearly raised the issue through its ambassadors on the ground and at political meetings in the framework of the human rights dialogue with the philippines. subsequently, and under public pressure from active philippine civil society, the government publicly presented the measures taken so far, acknowledged shortcomings and asked the eu for assistance in setting up special courts, special prosecutors, strengthening witness protection, strengthening the technical and forensic capabilities of the security forces, and raising awareness of the respect for human rights among the security forces. at the invitation of the philippine government, an eu mission is currently in the philippines to examine the conditions for this request. the national human rights commission and civil society are also to be strengthened in monitoring the situation. in addition to the killings and abductions of regime and government critics, there are serious allegations of torture, disappearances, illegal detention, human trafficking, and abuse of women and children in the philippines. human rights violations by the police and military, as well as acts of violence by members of extremist groups, are a regular occurrence, particularly in the military confrontation with various communist and separatist rebel groups and in the fight against terrorism.
member of the commission. madam president, the european commission follows developments in the philippines very closely. in recent high-level contacts – including the meeting between president barroso and president arroyo last september, and between commissioner ferrero-waldner and foreign minister romulo in march – we have encouraged the filipino authorities to advance their economic and social reforms, but expressed grave concern about the sharp increase in extrajudicial killings. we also made clear our support for the peace process in mindanao. our primary concern is that the extrajudicial killings should stop and that the crimes which have been committed should be properly investigated and the perpetrators duly prosecuted, building on the conclusions of the reports of senior judge melo and professor alston. the commission, together with member states, is therefore responding positively to a request from the filipino government to provide technical support for investigations. because the areas in which support has been requested are quite diverse, we are preparing a needs-assessment mission with member state and commission participation, which will visit the philippines in may for direct discussions with the authorities and other interested groups, including civil society. the commission is funding the majority of the costs of the mission and has played a lead role in its preparation. the findings of this mission should provide a basis on which the eu can mobilise effective support for the investigations. naturally, we will seek to work in close coordination with the un rapporteur for extrajudicial killings, professor alston. i am very glad that parliament has signalled its support. we must continue to encourage the authorities to make sure that the investigations are adequately carried out and that the perpetrators are brought to justice in a timely manner. the commission considers that progress is being made in the mindanao peace process. a formal peace agreement may not be too far away. at present, we are giving substantial indirect support through assistance for rural development and health and improvement of livelihoods. we have signalled that we are willing to give important direct assistance when the parties are closer to signature of a formal peace agreement. as regards the other insurgency involving the npa, we should continue to encourage the filipino authorities to re-open peace talks and allow those who are willing to abandon the gun for politics to do so, while ensuring that the new security legislation is implemented in full respect for human rights.
the agenda for the joint debate is: the report by mr alfonso andria, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on housing and regional policy (2006/2108 ((ini)) (a6-0090/2007) and the report by mr mieczysław edmund janowski, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the contribution of future regional policy to the innovation capacity of the european union (2006/2104 ((ini)) (a6-0096/2007).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today the process of the owninitiative report on housing and regional policy, for which i am the rapporteur, comes to an end. the report has in fact already begun with the work of the urban intergroup, chaired by mr jean marie beaupuy, of which i am vice-chairman. this work has made a major step forward with the european charter on housing, proposed and drawn up by mr hutchinson and approved in this very intergroup. i would first of all like to thank my colleagues, and especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their significant and important contribution. i am grateful to the coordinators and officials who have actively contributed to the drafting of the report, providing useful and useful corrective information to the document under consideration. it is only thanks to the understanding shown by all and the right attitude of collaboration that it has been possible to arrive today at a text which i find balanced but at the same time innovative and on which i hope there will be a broad consensus. the work with the european commission, the german presidency of the council of ministers and the european investment bank has been very fruitful indeed. we have established a very effective relationship with the trade associations and non-governmental organisations that have approached my office. a heartfelt thank you goes to the rapporteurs for opinions of the committee of the regions, mr flo clucas, and of the economic and social committee, mr angelo grasso, for their great commitment and for the excellent texts produced. i would also like to thank those who worked with me on the drafting of the report, namely the official from the group, mr anu ahopelto, the official from the regi committee, mrs agneszka kunat, and my assistant, mr valentino izzo. before going into the substance of the text, i think it is necessary to clarify the methodology used. the aim which i set myself when i began work on this own-initiative report was to raise the debate on housing policy to the level of a european issue, while being aware of the difficulties which exist. the treaty, as is well known, does not confer specific powers on the union in this area. however, article 7 of the edf regulation for the 2007-2013 programming period provides, in a limited number of cases and in any case only in the new member states, for the possibility of providing community funds to support projects for the renovation of buildings. it should also be noted that a large number of european policies - energy, environment, transport, security, cultural and social - have a strong, albeit indirect, impact on the quality of housing. the housing problem cannot therefore be regarded as a problem in itself. the approach i have taken to the own-initiative report is therefore a global one, considering housing choices within a more general policy of sustainable urban development, strongly linked to the sectoral and horizontal policies i have just mentioned. the report was therefore built around two main dimensions: the social dimension, which concerns the link between housing conditions, urban decay and social exclusion, and the environmental dimension, which concerns problems ranging from energy waste to the insecurity of buildings, from the quality of common areas to the protection of water and seismic risks. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a step in the right direction. horizontal, i.e. between the various european sectoral policies; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of housing in the eu. some of the most important issues. right to the house: if parliament, as i hope, were to vote in favour of this own-initiative report, it would for the first time recognise the right to adequate and affordable housing as a fundamental right. quality of housing: the text approved by the regi committee on 20 march deals with improving the quality of buildings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the appropriate resources: budgetary constraints have reduced the level of public resources available for urban investment, while processes of administrative decentralisation and regionalisation in many countries have increased the powers of cities. it is therefore necessary to provide local authorities with adequate financial instruments and to ensure that the right to housing can be effectively and fully enjoyed and that appropriate housing policies, and more generally urban development, can be derived from it. the house is calling for the right to housing benefit to be strengthened and, in particular, for facilities to be made available to young people.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr janowski and mr andria for the excellent work they have done. in particular, i appreciated the commitment to a more adequate housing policy. it is worth remembering that housing is a real emergency, especially in large european cities, where the cost of housing is very high and forces households to spend more than 50% of their salary on the mortgage or rent of the house. the house will be voting in favour of the report. i hope that we will move towards a project to redevelop the public housing which is often in very poor condition and, more generally, towards a strategy to rebuild the disadvantaged urban areas of the major european cities.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply wish to acknowledge the rich content of all the speeches, including those by colleagues who did not always express full and complete appreciation for the work done, if only because of a difficulty in approaching the subject, ignoring, however, that there was a clarification in the introduction regarding the competence of the european union in this matter. the report before us today is certainly a step forward, and i appreciate all the contributions and the richness of the debate, which of course included mr janowski's report, which i personally welcome, as well as my own. i would also like to thank commissioner danuta hübner, with whom we are now used to working, for her open-minded approach. i must say, especially in view of the original starting point and the difficulty i have mentioned several times, that there is a sign of progress on the part of the commission in this respect, which, among other things, is well suited to the financial instruments referred to, set up by the commission in conjunction with the european investment bank, and which is focused on the promotion of good practice, the problem of rural areas, the revitalization and recovery of urban degradation in historic centres, with particular reference to existing building stock. i would like parliament to reflect on these issues, such as energy, which mr hatzidakis has mentioned, and the problems of social exclusion, ghettoization and spatial segregation. this is a highly interrelated subject, as i mentioned in my introduction: the problem of housing, spatial segregation and ghettoization are absolutely decisive factors in terms of social exclusion. finally, mrs badia i cutchet rightly mentioned training, and i would add transport, services, health, and a number of issues relating to culture, cultural facilities and social services. that is why we must look at this matter more openly, as parliament is trying to do. the starting point is that this does not infringe the decision-making powers or the autonomy of action of the national states or of regional and local authorities. there is substantial respect for the principle of subsidiarity, but europe is being asked to take a step forward a little more decisively in this area. this means, ladies and gentlemen, that parliament has a great opportunity today, namely to show the european citizens that we are close to their needs, because housing is a primary good. this must be done without undue interference, without limiting the decision-making autonomy of the national states and local and regional authorities, but in cooperation, as my colleagues vlasák and sudre have also said, who have rightly stressed the need for europe to intervene and support, through regional policies, also the other member states and not only, as provided for in article 7 of the erdf regulation, the states of the last enlargement.
mr president, we cannot accept this oral amendment because it radically changes the meaning of the compromise reached in the informal trilogue. so i'm going to ask my colleagues to stand up.
mr president, it is proposed that the phrase 'full respect, including legal respect, for different sexual orientations' should be replaced by 'full respect and non-discrimination for different sexual orientations'.
mr president, it is proposed that the term 'palestinian state' be replaced by 'palestinian democratic state'.
this is merely a linguistic precision, it being understood that the french version is the authentic one. so the words "secular islamists" would not replace the words "moderate islamists", but would be considered an addition.
mr president, mr cappato's amendment is about the separation of political and religious power. we are talking about countries in the arab world here, and we are not talking about european countries. if the amendment concerns the countries of the arab world, we agree. because when he speaks of church he refers only to the catholic church or the protestant church. the amendment in question concerns religious power and political power and it must be made clear that it refers only to these two elements, since i see in mr de keyser's speech an attempt to insert other elements which are not in the report in question.
mr president, i personally welcome mrs de keyser's amendment, which i take for granted. if that were not the case, it is all the more positive that this amendment has been tabled.
mr president, i believe that everyone in this parliament has the right to speak, to express his ideas and to have clarity of information in the texts we are about to adopt. as regards the text which is authentic, mr cappato's amendment reads 'also guaranteeing the independence and separation of institutions and political power from religious authorities'. this is the text and it talks about church and state. the terms are "political power" and "religious authority".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vote by the northern league for the independence of padania on the eu-russia motion for a resolution is also motivated by the desire to express a strong protest against the extremely soft attitude adopted by the european union on the estonian crisis. a member state, a small young nation, whose people have won their freedom with courage and determination from the captivity of soviet communism, is being threatened severely, because of a decision of internal policy, by the former soviet occupier. and europe is basically watching, babbling only a vague protest in relation to the incidents outside the estonian embassy in moscow. the empty words of rhetoric used to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome should be replaced or at least supplemented by some words of far greater firmness and courage in defence of this member state whose freedom is under threat.
in writing. russia is an important economic and commercial partner for the european union, which must develop ever closer relations with the latter, also in order to facilitate the process of democratization and respect for civil and human rights. we cannot, however, fail to express our concern at the developments in recent days in relations between russia and the baltic states, and estonia in particular. it should be noted that the russian authorities have become accustomed to using economic and trade pressure on neighbouring countries in order to gain geopolitical dominance over the region. the eu must be united and firm in defending estonia and more generally any of its member states from commercial pressures and threats from any third country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate and the vote we had a debate on an amendment which we tabled and which we are very pleased to have adopted. the report states that we want a commitment to freedom of worship or the right of individuals and communities to freely profess their beliefs and faiths and the amendment stated "also guaranteeing the independence and separation of institutions and political power from religious authorities". i agreed with mr de keyser's oral amendment that this applies to all democracies. i regret that there was an objection to the vote, but i do not think that this changes the nature of the amendment. when we speak of the arab world, we are not talking about arab states, arab nations or mere institutions, but we are also talking about peoples and, consequently, we are also talking about arab citizens living in the european union. when we talk about the separation of institutions and political power from religious authority, we are talking about us, too, because the problem exists, of course, in a very specific form and nature, in mecca but also in rome. if we are going to tackle the issue of secularism in those countries, it means we are going to have to tackle it here. i would also like to conclude by expressing my satisfaction at the approval of the oral amendment on the 'palestinian democratic state', because otherwise the national state risks not being a frontier of freedom as we hope.
in writing. we voted in favour of the kaczmarek report on the horn of africa, which adopted four of our amendments aimed at putting the tragic reality of somalia into context. while the report as a whole expresses great hopes for a political partnership between the european union and the horn of africa, we wanted to stress the need to convene a global conference that focuses not only on security but also on peace and development, and that addresses these issues with all the countries of the horn of africa. we wanted to emphasize that women and children in particular suffer most during conflicts, since they are the most vulnerable groups of the population, and we therefore added an important reference to the un resolution on women in conflict. we also added that in order to eradicate poverty and promote economic development, a firm fight must also be waged against the tragic practice of female genital mutilation. finally, we tabled amendments on the importance of the principle of self-determination for the somali people and somaliland, the only democratic entity in the country, which is plagued by clan rivalries and the attempted infiltration by the islamic courts, whose sole aim is to undermine the peace process in the country.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to clarify our request to postpone the vote until the june partsession. the reason could be defined by the somewhat mysterious term of "legislative technique": we think that postponing the vote by a few weeks could help our institution to have a positive negotiation, or at least a more positive one, than the situation that would exist if we voted tomorrow on this dossier, which, as you know, is of great interest to the citizens, and we hope that the commission will be able to take a decision on this matter in the near future. that is why we have asked for a change in the legal basis, which is supported by the whole of parliament. i ask my colleagues to support our request for a vote to be postponed, not for a vote to be referred back to committee.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues have clearly spoken about very serious and complicated matters. i would like to draw attention to a subject which i think is particularly relevant today, since we shall be discussing environmental issues all afternoon: the environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would ask you, mr president, to ask the bureau to increase the number of bicycles available to all of us, members and officials, that would be a very simple way of being consistent with our emission reduction targets!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may.
the agenda includes the debate on the report by mrs anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directive 2000/60/ec (com (2006) 0397 - c6-0243/2006 - 2006/0129 (cod)) (a6-0125/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 22 may. annex - position of the commission
the agenda includes the debate on the recommendation for second reading by mrs lissy gröner, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing for the period 2007-2013 a specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk (daphne iii programme) under the general programme 'fundamental rights and justice' (16367/1/2006 - c6-0089/2007 - 2005/0037 (cod)) (a6-0147/2007).
the request will be forwarded to the president who will certainly also put it to the conference of presidents.
the agenda includes the report by mr daniel caspary, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on 'global europe - external aspects of competitiveness' (2006/2292 (ini)) (a6-0149/2007)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe's continuing commitment to the ever-increasing opening up of markets must not prevent europe from asserting its own interests in the global world. the lisbon strategy is an ambitious and shared objective and it makes it possible to meet the challenge that the competitors of the european union have set us. it is important to bear in mind, however, that the great game of trade and development is often played with unequal rules, and this lack of reciprocity, although justified by the delay in many countries in reaching their development milestones, is detrimental to our production systems, with serious social consequences. we must not forget that the european union is a major player in the world economy. our policy is to open the market, gradually reduce customs duties and create a level playing field. in this context, the policies of innovation, opening up markets, supporting the conversion of mature and no longer competitive production sectors must be integrated with the instruments for the protection of intellectual property and, more generally, with trade protection, as indicated in the green paper and as mr caspary's report pointedly reiterates.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has always defended the strictness of the rules of the wto and has applied a close control on any practices which might cause distortions in the internal and international markets, often by itself and at the expense of its own immediate economic interests. for these rules to make sense, the eu must strongly insist that they be applied by other members, in particular by direct competitors. it is also important that these standards are periodically adapted to the constant evolution of business practices and the production system, as in recent cases of relocation, in order to safeguard both the quality and quantity of work in the union, as well as the respect of social and environmental standards in non-european countries. in this connection, the procedures under way for the creation of the european quality label and for the protection of intellectual property must be encouraged and accelerated, so that the competitiveness of our enterprises, especially the smaller ones, and the quality of our production can be safeguarded both within and outside our frontiers. as a member of the committee on development i feel obliged to remind you that flexibility and gradual progress are necessary for those developing countries which are committed to ensuring the basic needs of their populations before they are fully open to the market: equal access to clean water, to education, to efficient sanitation systems, for example, are essential prerequisites for further sustainable economic development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to everyone in this house and in the economic and productive world of the european union that ever greater cfp can promote a freer and at the same time fairer and more controlled development of the market. if the european union is to remain the world's leading economic power and the area of greater freedom and less social inequality, it must not only encourage the development of the capacity of developing countries to promote external trade in the face of their unfortunately severe loss of competitiveness on world markets, but also increase aid for trade, in the knowledge that liberalisation and aid are not mutually contradictory initiatives. in this context, the significant sum of eur 2 billion is still not enough, the concept of cap itself needs to be clarified by adopting the conclusions of the world trade organisation's task force on aid on financiable interventions and by integrating development and trade policies as much as possible, as provided for in the integrated framework, also in terms of poverty reduction.
the european commission has already made a number of proposals to the acp countries, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them in their efforts to achieve this. the socio-environmental impact of the indiscriminate opening of local markets to international investment, mainly in the natural resources and land sector itself, would add negatively to the lack of real economic returns for the people of those countries: the only advantage would be for the big multinational companies of europe! on issues such as the so-called singapore issues, trade in services and intellectual property rights, we will also be faced with rules that are even stricter than those laid down by the world trade organisation itself. a wto plus agreement will push the african people further into the abyss of poverty! in africa, the stability of entire rural communities is at stake, thousands of manufacturing jobs are at risk. without work, we can only migrate, trying our luck on those sea-going carts which have in recent days returned to invade the european shores of the mediterranean. as the gue we call for the epa negotiations to be stopped as they are and for a new start to be made on a different basis, with social justice, solidarity and self-development of the peoples at the centre. we consider it inconceivable and illogical that, while the doha round negotiations are at a standstill, the european commission should insist that the epa negotiations should not provide for derogations from the negotiating deadline. the european union as a whole should instead work within the wto to secure the recognition of a transitional arrangement to maintain a system of trade preferences for the benefit of the acp countries until a new agreement is finalised. for all these reasons and others which i do not have time to mention, my group has decided to vote against the sturdy report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the new treaty must be adopted as a matter of urgency. this is a matter of urgency, but it also requires simplification and making the union more understandable to the citizens. but to trivialize the difficulties that exist and are the root of the doubts which have prevented us from reaching a consensus is certainly not the way forward. the italian president of the council, who is also president of the commission, must be aware that the same general and ambiguous proposals are met with ambiguous and inconclusive answers, which are the exact opposite of what the citizens want. the possibility of opening a thousand roads, but not one of them being completed, especially when the roads are the same, which for more than ten years we have heard proposed and then abandoned. the crisis is obvious and not trivial and therefore needs solutions adapted to the ever-shorter timescale and for this reason the efforts of the german chancellor, the statements of president sarkozy have given us europeans hope again. we seek what is achievable, not what is impossible! we believe that compromise, when it is high and honourable, is the basis of policy. when we say 'no to compromise', it is because we have already made compromises of little importance and of little ethical value. if the crisis is evident, abandon projects that cannot be implemented in a short time and consolidate instead what is immediately agreed: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of children against the dangers of ionizing radiation. the citizens cannot trust government leaders who in strasbourg outline europe in plain words and in their own country fail to implement the projects that europe has approved. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report. citizens' trust is diminished when border security is not guaranteed, because of a confused immigration policy contradiction. the first to suffer are the regular immigrants. the tav, which was approved in all community institutions, is blocked by differences within the italian government and development is also stalled. mr president, i think that when we are addressed by the words 'the important role of the european parliamentarians', we must also try in all countries, including our own, to remember that to this day the members of the european convention, the italian members, have never been called upon to have an exchange of ideas and to make their contribution. that meant something, too! less words and more deeds!!
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group/european free alliance welcomes you, mr prodi, to this house, partly because, unfortunately, the speeches in favour of a high-level solution to the constitutional crisis have not been so frequent recently. we are afraid, by the way, that tomorrow the dutch prime minister will be and say a very different tune. understanding the reasons of others is fine, but experience teaches us that it is almost always the reasons of the opposite that win out. that even the most pro-european governments, such as yours, have gradually succumbed to the reasoning of those who see in the intergovernmental dimension and in the balance of power between states the true dimension of european government. this was the case in maastricht, amsterdam and nice. you said that your government will not accept any downward compromise, we hope, because on many occasions the precedents have not been very encouraging. the greens do not like blackmail, conflict and break-up. we would very much like a harmonious, innovative and truly sustainable and united europe, the europe of 27 is a great achievement. but let 's be clear: the blackmail has so far been carried out only by those who wanted to stop the solution of the constitutional crisis, and this is a reality that cannot be ignored. even the majority of this parliament has refrained in recent months and years from making any bold proposals while waiting for a government initiative. we believe that there are two or three conditions which will allow us, mr president, to break out of this impasse and we really hope that the italian government will be convinced of our part in this. there will have to be a strong alliance between the 18 countries that have ratified this parliament, the commission, some national parliaments, to resist the tendency to dismantle the constitutional treaty. you have listed a number of themes, and i would like to add at least two: the first is the question of the charter of fundamental rights, the second is the question of the reform of the revision clause. it is no longer possible to go on like this, with a treaty adopted unanimously and leaving the european parliament out of it. the second condition is that you, the governments, must have the courage to speak to the public about the choices to be made, the divisions that exist among you, about the future of europe and to seek their support. you do not hide in mysterious secret negotiations. do not exclude this parliament from the reform of the european constitution which is being prepared by the intergovernmental conference, because experience shows that in the secrecy of intergovernmental negotiations, others win. we, and i conclude, mr president, are not afraid of the hard-core debate, even if we do not like it. we think that only by putting certain governments and certain peoples in front of the choice of in or out will they eventually decide to be with us.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after months of difficulties, the initiative of chancellor merkel and the election of nicolas sarkozy as president of the french republic have given europe new hope. despite further resistance, there is now a real chance to bring about a new treaty which lays down the rules of a totally original institution such as the european union! it is obvious, unfortunately, that the text, the fruit of the work so well directed by the italian presidency, led by silvio berlusconi and signed in rome, will no longer be able to enter into force. but if europe is to play its proper role on the international stage, the substance of the treaty must be saved. i am thinking of the principle of majority decisions on certain important matters, i am thinking of the single voice in foreign policy, i am thinking of the duration of the presidency. the adoption of a reduced text is only the first step forward. of course, the best is the enemy of the good, but it is important to continue along the path we have taken and to decide before the european elections in 2009. perhaps, thinking about tomorrow, the new legislature of this parliament which could also play a constituent role as suggested by many, starting with the chairman of the legal affairs committee, mr gargani, and mr brunetta. but the eu27 needs more than institutional rules to function better. it needs to recognise itself in the values which are its real basis, the foundations on which to build a union which will not be dissolved in the face of difficulties in the future. it would be a mistake not to make freedom, solidarity, subsidiarity and the centrality of the individual the cornerstones of the community institutions. it would be a grave mistake to renounce our identity, our judeo-christian roots and a social model based on the family, that of father, mother and children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tajani is making arguments which have nothing to do with today's subject, whereas we have heard clear, strong and determined words from president prodi which give italy the lead in european integration and give more strength to the european parliament, which is always at the forefront of the battle for the constitutional reforms of the union. those were very clear words on a very important point: the european parliament has a duty to act. we must give the intergovernmental conference a closed mandate, not an open one! we cannot call a draft constitution dead which has been accepted by the vast majority of citizens and which gives precise answers, other than nonsense, mr muscardini! prodi has listed them, the precise answers in his introduction and his reply! without a constitution, dear comrade wurtz, the european union is weaker and more likely to decline into a pure free trade area. that is why i sometimes fail to understand certain left-wing positions that are more entrenched! after president prodi's speech, parliament and all of us are more reassured and stronger and will go through the new phase with greater determination and tenacity.
mr president of the italian council, i speak on behalf of the uen group, which, i am pleased to remind president prodi, represents the fourth political force in the european parliament. i want to say it again: europe is important to us! the president of the party i represent, mr fini, was one of the enthusiastic contributors to the current draft constitution. more generally, we italians have a long and unbroken tradition of europeanism, and we cannot therefore fail to support the appeal made a few months ago in this very house by the president of the italian republic, napolitano, who called for the adoption of the constitution as soon as possible. this constitution is also necessary to have a common foreign policy. you have said it well, mr president-in-office of the council, a common foreign policy which we so much miss, especially at this time of international crisis. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all those involved, starting with the approximately 8000 italians who are engaged in peace missions throughout the world, particularly in afghanistan, lebanon and palestine. these are important tasks which are strongly supported by all the italian political forces, albeit in honour of the real mr prodi, with some embarrassing exceptions in his government majority. but i want to return to the constitution with regret and a wish. it is a pity that it was not possible to mention his christian roots in the text; the aim of the european parliament is to ensure that the constitution is adopted as soon as possible. i am convinced that italy, as usual, will do its part well.
i am convinced that, precisely because i share your passion for europe, a new impetus based on democracy and rights is needed to revive the constituent process. i am increasingly convinced that the intergovernmental logic is not the solution to the problems, but part of it and that it puts us at risk of a mini-treatment or even a two-speed approach. it is up to the citizens and the parliaments to take the lead with a new constituent mandate entrusted to a european parliament which has these functions, for a new text, for a european referendum; to change text and context. the centre must be clearly defined as the rights that are to be claimed and which are characteristic of european citizenship. the right to work and to employment, which establish that stable and quality work is the norm in europe and not the precarious kind of work that is being developed with flexicurity! we need a clear environmental right, which requires innovative policies based on cooperation, multipolar visions such as those which must lead to the ratification of the post-kyoto agreement and not the mere logic of commercial competition! we need a right to peace that is born of the rejection of war and a union policy that is based on these values and actively practices them as its own foreign policy! we need a new europe, the only one possible but increasingly necessary. we can build it by the people with parliaments!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there was a slogan in 1968 which said 'be realistic, ask for the impossible', but today we should say 'be realistic, ask for what is necessary to avoid the collapse of the european project of which you are all temporary guardians'. if the european parliament were to be reinstated in 2009 without a convincing institutional response, the whole of europe would be faced with an irremediable crisis of illegitimacy, whereas, on the contrary, citizens must be able to choose today on the basis of a clear model as you have defined it. parliament has spoken many times on this subject and the council now has the floor. president prodi should know that he is not here today to represent only his own country, but all those europeans who have not let down the sails of greater integration. in closing, i remember one thing: those who don't share today, call it quits. the others can go on freely. let us remember that europe was born of a vanguard of countries and it is not certain that it can be revived tomorrow by the same method.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president prodi comes to us as a former president of the european commission with a completely negative budget: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: it looks like the iri budget! because today, for example, you did not have the courage to come and speak, since you are so enthusiastic about the superfederal european constitution, about institutional changes in our country. when will you decide to grant the federalism the north has been demanding for so long? it is a matter of freedom and also of political consistency! mr. schulz compared you to the gattopardo. it looks like a blunder, but it's a perfect hit. only a great gattopard like you can govern with political parties that have the mark of the hammer and sickle when they enlarged to the countries that have freed themselves from communism and even manage to govern, even though they represent only a third of our country. i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on this matter in due course. your spiritual horizon, president prodi, is that of goldman sachs, not that of bell towers and cathedrals, as we think.
president prodi, ladies and gentlemen, the process of adopting the european constitution cannot be reduced to a series of amendments to the existing treaties; it must contain important social aspects which are not present at the moment! europe must be able to face the great challenges that threaten the rights of citizens, the quality of life, health and the very future of the population. faced with such phenomena as relocation, the depletion of water resources, global energy shortages and climate change, individual states are helpless, unable to formulate winning strategies. only by concerted action at continental level, and even more so at planetary level, can we hope for a success that we cannot fail to achieve. it is important that europe is at the forefront of the world, both politically, as a reference point for inclusive social policies, for a policy of welcoming people that is a model for the rest of the world, and on the technological choices and assumptions for the future, particularly in the field of sustainable energy. five members of the main political groups in the european parliament have signed a written declaration on the need for europe to embark on a new path on the hydrogen economy: a real industrial, technological and social revolution, sustainable in the long term. you mentioned this, and i think this is one of the examples where europe can and must play a leading role on the world chessboard. in conclusion, there is no need for compromise at all costs, we must tackle the real problems affecting millions of citizens. only then will the dream of a united europe speak to the hearts of europeans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the future of europe lies in its roots, and for us radicals they are represented by the ventotene manifesto, which pointed to the need to achieve peace, democracy and prosperity by going beyond the dimension of the nation state. reforming europe today means offering this project also to the peoples on the other side of the mediterranean, affirming also for them the individual right to democracy through the accession of democratic states, starting with turkey, but also with the perspective of israel, morocco and others. you spoke of the avant-garde, but for us the avant-garde is only the one that does not close the doors of europe. another point: we propose that any reforms to be made should be put to a referendum vote by the european people as such. not national referendums, but a single referendum submitted to the citizens of the european homeland against the neo-gollonian europe of the national homelands. in conclusion, let us welcome an example of how we can, as a union, be strong when we have confidence in ourselves: the presentation of the resolution on the moratorium on capital punishment to the general assembly of the united nations. but beware, mr president, of the sabotage that some are still attempting now. for example, look at the official communication from cagre and the council bureaucracy. after the last cagre means that this sabotage is being attempted, president, let's try to prevent it.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, death and violence have returned to gaza, lebanon and israel. as the socialist group, we stress the need and urgency for a fundamental change in the european union's policy in the middle east, with the full restoration of financial support to the palestinian institutions and people. the clashes of these days are the result of the political situation's exasperation and stagnation, and they demonstrate and confirm the fact that israel will not build its security on the death of palestine and the palestinians. the double standard of european democracy towards the government of national unity must end, and the political will of that government is the only hope of regaining control of the situation. but the decision to suspend financial support to the institutions seems even more absurd after the formation of the government of national unity. the fact that the council and the commission have decided not to meet the hamas ministers and the independents does not help to stabilize the executive, which is at present the only way to give political expression to the palestinian people. the mecca agreement, although it does not reflect the uncritical repetition of the four points of the quartet, is obviously moving in the right direction, in the sense of mutual recognition and the cessation of violence. we must work on this to make the situation develop in a positive way. the commissioner also mentioned that foreign minister abu amr, who was with us in brussels last week, has given us very, very much reassurance in this respect. we share the pain and condemnation of the launching of missiles at sderot and the fact that there have been victims and wounded there, but at the same time we want to appeal to the palestinian and israeli authorities to stop the disproportionate, disproportionate, illegal reprisals against palestinian political and civilian figures. a perverse dynamic has been set in motion and we europeans must try to help to stop it. i would remind you that the 78 deaths in lebanon in a few days tell us of another poisonous fruit of the unresolved arab-israeli conflict, namely that in lebanon an open conflict can be reopened with the 400 000 palestinian refugees present in that territory. we have already lived through this nightmare, let us try to avoid it, just as we stopped the war and the israeli aggression against lebanon last july.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, palestinians are still dying, and many have died in the past, and they are being collectively punished again. the army's response to a group of terrorists, who must be fought, but again the palestinian people are paying. it would be dutiful and responsible to acknowledge our failure: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the tragedy that is taking place has been announced many times! since 1980 we have been talking about two peoples and two states: one state exists, the other, not. the palestinian people are deprived of their freedom, humiliated, dispossessed, held hostage by extremist groups who hold the people and even the leadership hostage. it's not enough! it is not enough to promise that we will give more financial aid! the solution is political: we must stop the military occupation, stop the expansion of the settlements, recognize the palestinian national unity government, work for the unity of the palestinians and not for their division! the european union must show that it believes in international law and say so to israel, which is constantly violating it. a country that is losing, as david grossman says, its morality every day. hurry up! we must act quickly, because palestinians and israelis and lebanese are paying the price for our incompetence and double standards. recognize the government and even perhaps put an international un force in gaza and the west bank. i think it is essential!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the presidency and the commission for coming. clearly, the time available only allows me to formulate a few reflections. the palestinian question is a serious and urgent one, it is in a state of turmoil which we must try to correct. the government of national unity is the only interlocutor, we must take this realistically and try to buy time with action of hope for palestine. it is also possible to arrive at a force of interposition and to have the courage, as the european union, to be the common guarantor of the security of israel and palestine, against the background of a policy which must be open to the arab world, starting with the entire mediterranean, without therefore isolating this conflict from the general problem of the relationship between islam and the west. i believe in a dream: we have to have a reformed united nations based in jerusalem, so that we can actually give this kind of hope. you can work with it. i think we can do it!
vice-president of the commission. this special number, 116000 for example, will replace all the national hotlines, so there will be only one number. in my country there is now one number and in france there is another one. in the near future there will be only the number 116000 for missing children, and so on. all these special european numbers will replace national numbers, of course.
member of the commission. in answer to the honourable member's question, i should like to say that the european union’s strategy in terms of people with disabilities has been laid down in the disability action plan of 2003-2010, where access to ict is a priority. you might also know that one of the pillars of the i2010 action plan is inclusion. on that basis, the commission adopted a communication on e-accessibility in 2005 and a communication on e-inclusion is in preparation for the end of 2007 and in this text there will be a proposal for new actions when appropriate. we are not only working on concrete actions in that way, we are also encouraging our research efforts in the direction of developing new methodologies and new services for the disabled. we also have the competitiveness and innovation framework programme – the cip – which supports our ict policy with pilot projects and so on and so forth. several actions are proposed on e-accessibility and on something that will become very important in the future – ict for the elderly. very often they are the people, because there are people with disabilities and very often the elderly have those disabilities too and they represent a very high future percentage of our population. that is why ict for the elderly for ambient living will become one of the strong elements of our future policies, not only in theory but also in research and in practical implementation. we are also supporting standardisation on e-accessibility. for instance, we have taken an initiative to harmonise at eu level the accessibility requirements for public procurement in the ict domain through an eu standard, because we believe that common standards can facilitate the development of accessible ict products by the industry, leading to more uptake which also means to lower prices. therefore the one is linked to the other. there are also some vertical issues. in june 2006 we will propose strengthening the right of disabled users to access emergency services and introducing a community mechanism to address e-accessibility issues. we will have an opportunity to discuss those problems with parliament when together we will try to find a solution for the universal service. there will be a public consultation on the scope by the end of 2007 or the beginning of 2008 – i do not know yet exactly when – but that will be the time for parliament and our main stakeholders to come forward with proposals to see what we are going to do with the universal service. a very concrete problem should be solved the day after tomorrow, because then the council is going to accept the european parliament’s amendment at its meeting concerning the audiovisual media services directive. parliament introduced an amendment on subtitling, improving accessibility for people with disabilities to audiovisual media services. i hope the council will accept this and then the new policy will go also in this direction. the question of digital signatures will gain in importance as secure electronic communications are developing between commercial and public service providers and users. the commission will look at this issue in the follow-up to the european electronic signatures directive and the e-government action plan, also bearing in mind people with disabilities. i can just tell you in a very personal way that the various presidencies of the european union have all held a congress or an exhibition – something official and public – to show how the results of the research have been put into practice. i have always thought that this was a very good example to be taken up in our e-government activities, which are there to be proposed by the commission and the european union, but they have to be implemented by local governments most of all and by regional and national governments. i have seen the enthusiasm with which regional and local governments in particular have taken up the results of our work to provide practical help for the disabled people living in their region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for his very detailed and systematic response to the policies in force. i would particularly like to thank you for the link you made, in the terms i intended to use, on the question of the close relationship between technologies to help disabled people and those that can help older people. given the demographic trend in europe, with an ageing population on average, the technological revolution can provide answers of enormous social scope. the last point i wanted to bring to your attention is that for some people who are completely immobile and able to speak perhaps only with eye movement, such technologies are not only a problem, they are a help, they are a way to realize a fundamental civil right, freedom of expression.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the european context it is difficult to imagine strong economic growth and the creation of jobs and wealth without an efficient and modern transport network. the trans-european transport network plays a decisive role in enabling the free movement of persons and goods within the territory of the european union and is one of the decisive factors for achieving the objectives of economic and employment development of the european union identified by the lisbon agenda, all the more so in a europe which has deepened two dimensions with enlargement: the central eastern and the southern. for this reason, the european union has set as one of its objectives for the tens the elimination of bottlenecks in the rail network and the adaptation of priority routes in order to absorb new flows generated by enlargement, especially in border areas, and to improve the accessibility of peripheral regions. in this way, the tens can be a reference point for community legislation aimed at promoting economic and social development and territorial cohesion for the countries of the union. as we all know, the funding for the tens has been considerably reduced compared with the initial forecasts: the 2007-13 programming set the funding for the tens at eur 8 billion, a sharp reduction from the eur 20 billion initially requested by the commission, while doubling the available funds over the period 2000-2006. we have accepted this penalty and have moved forward with the forces that have been made available to us, pursuing throughout the long negotiations four fundamental objectives: (1) simplification, to make the procedure easier; 2) cross-compliance, in order to favour modes of transport with a lower environmental impact; (3) selectivity and concentration, to encourage the concentration of resources on projects with high community added value; (4) proportionality, in order to diversify the maximum amount of community resources available depending on the type of project to be financed. i have mentioned only some of the objectives we have achieved in order to establish a precise identification of financial commitments: the increase of co-financing rates to 20% for priority projects and 30% for the cross-border section. a clear increase in community financial support for projects aimed at eliminating bottlenecks in the networks of the most disadvantaged regions, as the commission intends to do in the context of the revision of the tens. the use of up to 85% of budgetary resources for priority projects, a clearer definition of bottlenecks to overcome natural barriers, a new link for the european rail management traffic system, which can now benefit from co-financing rates of 50%. new and innovative parameters for the 'loan guarantee instruments' issued by the european bank and new measures to provide risk capital participation, with the possibility of involving the private investment sector. i would like to clarify the question of comitology by giving details of the compromise reached: the agreed procedure follows article 5 and not article 5a, which would have been the optimum for parliament, but would have caused further delays in the work, preventing the allocation of community funds by 2007, with very serious consequences for the implementation of the programme. even if article 5 applies, parliament is expected to be heavily involved. all proposals will be sent to both the committee on the rules of procedure and parliament in parallel, thus allowing parliament to make its own assessments well in advance, before the proposals are adopted. this fully meets the need to keep both the committee on budgets and the committee on transport constantly informed. in addition, commissioner barrot, in his letter of last november, gave a personal commitment to keep the chairmen of the two parliamentary committees concerned informed of any changes. the letter was included in the final text of the regulation, as a guarantee of the commission's commitment to parliament. i personally strongly believe that the question of comitology must be studied and analysed in order to avoid future deadlock situations. this compromise is an isolated case, prompted by the need to speed up the procedure in order to avoid blocking the allocation of community funds for the tens. in the light of this clarification, mr president, i would ask all the honourable members in the house to vote against the amendments tabled. since agreement has been reached on the text as a whole, to vote in favour of these amendments would mean to abandon this agreement, to reopen the negotiations with the council and to frustrate all the efforts made during the negotiations, which were launched with the very intention of unlocking the funds for the tens in a speedy manner. i would like to conclude by thanking all my colleagues and especially the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups who have contributed to the report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the multiannual budget totals some eur 8 billion. however, ten projects exceed eur 600 billion, so it is only a modest incentive. most member states are so deeply in debt that they cannot borrow any more, but must instead reduce their debt. nevertheless, many people dream of major transeuropean projects. my proposal: first of all, we should study how to avoid traffic without reducing our well-being and how to organize the transport that is really necessary in a more socially and environmentally compatible way on the basis of existing infrastructure. we are not solving transport problems by building most of the transport corridors, and we are even less solving the problems related to energy and climate change.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from tomorrow we will finally be making available eur 6.5, 6.8, 8 billion for the ten project. unfortunately, this is a drop in the ocean compared to the estimated 240 to 330 billion for priority projects or 600 billion for the entire network. a drop that is likely to dry up if we do not get the member states to do their part. we cannot, of course, leave this to the member states alone. that is why i am calling on the commission to assume from tomorrow another responsibility, which is basically permitted by the treaty, which provides that it may, in cooperation with the member states, take any useful initiative to promote policy coordination in relation to the tens. the commission must take the lead in the overall financing policies of the whole project and find a way of solving the problems, such as the fact that 122 of the 240 billion estimated projects will have to be financed by countries which at the moment do not comply or have difficulty in complying with the maastricht parameters and which we in theory require not to borrow. this problem must be raised at community level and solved. i hope the commission will take this into account and take it forward.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for the citizens of the european union: the compromise reached on the draft regulation on roaming will mean that some 500 million european citizens will be directly affected by the decisions we take. the first of these is tourists and small and mediumsized businesses, which will finally be able to benefit from the reductions in the new euro-tariffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have identified from the outset the principles to which we must refer, namely a european consumer protection tariff and greater transparency in retail prices. as a liberal democrat i would have preferred that the objective of reducing the price of a product or service should be pursued through healthy competition between the forces operating in the market rather than through managerial intervention of direct price regulation, but it is a fact that in this particular market segment the normal rules of competition have not objectively worked so far. i fully support this exceptional and limited measure, which is a response to an exceptional situation, and i also congratulate the excellent work done by the rapporteur, mr reding, and all those who have made this important and tangible result possible in recent months. a further step towards the completion of the internal market, which will finally abolish unjustifiably high international roaming charges and also bring down one of the last frontiers between the peoples of the european union. parliament will today take a decision which will speak directly to some 500 million european citizens.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on roaming is a subject which is particularly sensitive to consumers and as such obliges us to ensure the utmost protection without ignoring the needs of industry. we can however note with satisfaction that we have seen a sense of responsibility on the part of all the political groups, which certainly meets the expectations of european users. it is a regulation which will bring europe closer to its citizens. after lengthy negotiations, certainly with the council and the commission, to reach an agreement at first reading, the compromise solution formally adopted only on monday evening can satisfy everyone, although more could certainly be done. it is clear that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the price of electricity, and that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the price of electricity. the compromise is still valid, fixing for the retail market maximum rates of 49 cents for calls made and 24 cents for calls received; in other words, it means a cut of about 50% compared to normal rates. i welcome the solution which provides for the automatic application of the tariff, known as the protection or euro-tariff, to all users after three months from the entry into force of the regulation, leaving the user free to opt for tariffs which he may consider more advantageous for him. this will prevent users travelling abroad for business or leisure from being subject to excessive tariffs in the future, as is unfortunately the case in some cases today. the compromise still leaves a profit margin for operators, who will still be able to benefit in the future from the increase in telephone traffic volumes. in the interests of greater transparency, i regard as a success the obligation on operators to inform users by providing personalised information on tariff plans. the gradual reduction of tariffs over three years is a little less convincing, although understandable in a spirit of compromise. perhaps a more vigilant market would have reduced prices more than this regulation can do in three years, but it is also true that where the market has failed because of the lack of transparency of excessive prices and alleged abuse of power, regulation at both wholesale and retail level is not only desirable but also absolutely necessary.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. it seems difficult to argue that the current tariffs in a naturally cross-border sector such as mobile telephony could maintain those tariff situations which did not take account of the european common market. the protection of consumers is a matter for politics and the commissioner has done well to bring the matter up. parliament has responded with great vigour and unity, and this is worth noting. however, in this debate our group's concern has been to ensure a fair price for all, i.e. the option normally called opt-out, in contrast to the council's position which has largely accepted the reasons of the large telecommunications groups, to apply the tariff only to customers who request it. the decision to apply the eurotariff to all is a defining aspect of the commission's proposal and goes in the direction of transparency and the safeguarding of consumers' interests. the margins left to telecommunications companies are still too high, but i believe that the principle of setting a ceiling is an important precedent and can contribute, as it has done, to reducing tariffs. we accepted the compromise because there was an urgent need to intervene in a situation of oligopoly among companies to the detriment of consumers. the commission and parliament have given an important signal. now, it is important to insist on transparency of implementation through the national supervisory authorities and the verification in three years. it is the right way to show citizens that the european institutions can actually tackle the problems that no single state can solve.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, roaming charges are falling, but europe is late and consumers will continue to pay the consequences. for years the european commission has taken no action to protect its citizens and has let the telephone companies agree with each other, building cartels that have become a real pain in the ass for consumers. independent studies, such as that of the association of european consumers, have shown that mobile operators overcharge their customers by €3.52 billion every year. the actual cost of a minute of roaming is between 10 and 14 cents; operators resell it at an average of 1,06 cents, with a price/cost spread of more than 600%. in view of such high margins, we expected a more serious proposal on consumer protection, not the one presented here: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the proposal is necessary, a small step forward, but even if it does lower prices, it does not sufficiently protect consumers, does not compensate them for the exploitation they suffer and, on the contrary, continues to harm them further.
i take this opportunity to greet my former colleague mr wuermeling warmly and give him the floor on behalf of the council in his capacity as minister.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i am pleased to see that in the case of the roaming report the vast majority of the members of this house have come forward as citizens and consumers rather than, as has happened on many other occasions, as advocates of the interests of one sector or another of industry. this parliament has joined forces to demand, in addition to the system of reduced tariffs and transparency, that the regulation be applied before the summer, so that users can benefit from it during the holiday season. i thank the efforts of commissioner reding, who strongly wanted this regulation, and the rapporteurs who succeeded in obtaining better rates than those proposed by the council. what is needed now is one last effort: the european parliament, the council and the commission have all agreed that the european union should be a stronger partner in the fight against terrorism and that the european union should be a stronger partner in the fight against terrorism. we have shown that with will and cooperation it is possible to tackle even the big economic monopolies, to the benefit of all. i hope that after this, other battles will be as successful.
the agenda includes the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'promoting decent work for all' (2006/2240 (ini)) (a6-0068/2007).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report contains a lot of good ideas and positive suggestions for decent work. i'm not sure i can do that. but we should also bear in mind that there are more than 20 million unemployed in the eu, many of whom are marginalised and stigmatised. it should also be borne in mind that more and more workers are not earning the necessities of life despite their employment, and that so-called precarious working conditions are used to circumvent labour and tax laws and, above all, to exploit young people. at the same time, the economy is growing and gross national product is rising. the creation of a just society without poverty and exclusion requires a radical change of paradigm. the best approach is the idea of an unconditional basic income for all. the commission would be well advised to examine this concept in depth with the council.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to the commission and to the rapporteur for having decided to tackle such an important subject. i shall not dwell on the need to ensure that all the countries of the union, and especially the new members, ratify the main conventions on this subject as soon as possible, nor on the eu's duty to suppress all forms of discrimination based on gender, religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation, as well as all types of unhealthy behaviour, such as the still widespread phenomenon of mobbing, which may interfere with the professional and private lives of workers. i am particularly concerned to stress the need to move away from the 19th century model of an industrial economy of scale. we cannot rely on our own natural resources or on the availability of labour as in china for our development, so we need a real revolution in thinking, namely the awareness that we must invest in human resources, train them, offer them security and opportunities for growth. this is the best, if not the only, way to promote the eu's competitiveness and to achieve the lisbon objectives. if in new economies such as brazil or the asian tigers the challenge of international trade is based on quantity, europe has the duty and above all the opportunity to differentiate itself by focusing on quality, creativity, cultural, intellectual and scientific heritage, which are the basic elements of our reality. the tertiary sector, whose raw material is people, not as bodies but as brains, is now the predominant sector. if we give our citizens the opportunity to express their abilities and skills acquired in years of study to the best of their ability, then we are ready to take back that role of leading player on the international chessboard which we are in danger of losing. economic development must be in the service of man, not the other way around.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when paragraph 10 was voted on, it was translated into italian as paragraph 11, so i voted differently than i would have voted.
i have listened with great interest to the reports of the council and the commission and, as a member of the delegation of parliamentary observers to the presidential elections, i can confirm absolutely everything that has been said so far. the elections were not conducted in full compliance with international standards, nor did they meet the standards required at international level or by the african states themselves. there was even a change in the opening hours of the seats, which was announced only the day before, and which was not known by most of the population. the same seats were largely closed early. the absence of any secrecy on the ballot and i could go on and on, citing for example the role of an independent electoral commission in name only, but heavily dependent on the government. i'd like to add the intimidating atmosphere. i remember how hauwa ibrahim, the 2005 sakharov prize winner, was supposed to meet our delegation in a public setting and asked to move the meeting place because she didn't feel safe enough. i would like to bring the debate to what can be done in the future. we must absolutely demand investigations into electoral irregularities, demand an independent electoral commission, ask and verify whether the role of the court of appeal is truly independent in dealing with electoral appeals and point out that new elections are necessary. but we cannot stop there, and i can already see in the background the risk that the council's policy choices will be in the direction of proceeding as if nothing had happened. because, let's face it, some people may think that the important thing is to have a government that is more or less legitimate, but in a country with which you can continue to do business on oil. this can't be the answer. i would like to ask: how do you intend to use some of the instruments that the european union has? for example, the european instrument for democracy and human rights? can we verify whether the nigerian government remains outside the selection and implementation of projects financed by this instrument? i ask the commissioner, as i have had occasion to do on other occasions, what is the democratic rights clause, which was approved by a large majority in this parliament but never transposed by the commission and the council, never transformed into the binding instrument which in this case could be extremely useful in balancing the burden of trade relations with europe in the perspective of democratic progress. and last but not least, the question of what role europe intends to play in the niger delta. it is not enough for individual states to get involved and be prepared to pay ransoms when someone is kidnapped. we must demand that a dialogue, a dialogue, a dialogue be opened up between the nigerian government and the representatives of the local population, and that pressure be brought not only on the government but also on the big european companies which are operating in that area without respect for human rights and environmental rights.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i shall briefly summarize the meaning of my amendment, which was supported by the alde group. i have asked for the seventh indent of article 10 of the motion for a resolution on the cites convention to be deleted. in addition, there is no scientific basis for transferring coral to appendix ii, as a highly respected panel of experts on behalf of the fao has stated that the conditions for the inclusion of species of the genus corallium in appendix ii of cites do not exist. coral can be adequately protected, including through a rotation of protected areas between producing countries. if the current wording were to be retained, it would be a blow to the goldsmith and artisan sectors, as well as to the local economy and employment in various countries of the union: italy, spain, france, greece and malta; and non-european countries such as china and japan. i therefore ask you to support my amendment, which is politically acceptable and supported by scientific arguments.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to report to the house on the work of the committee, which has discussed mr donnici's credentials in depth and has reached a large majority in favour of the report. i am defending the committee, which i have the great honour of chairing, and i am responding to those who make petty insinuations - which obviously do not do honour to this parliament either, since the committee has a flourishing number of lawyers in it - that it would not be calm and objective. we have people and lawyers like lehne, medina, wallis, frassoni, just to mention the coordinators, and also many other personalities throughout the committee. we have always discussed this at a high level, with great depth and with great sincerity. we have been increasingly studying the role of this parliament, which is a giant in many ways and in its role in europe, but which is a dwarf sometimes when you try to force it into a bureaucratic corner. the question we're discussing is part of this big question: the fact is that mr occhetto's resignation is contrary to the european act and mr donnici cannot be given a positive assessment. the rules governing the european electoral procedure are a matter of community competence and therefore the reference to national provisions laid down by the european act of 1976 is only supplementary. the national provisions must, however, be in conformity with the fundamental principles of community law, its primary rules and the spirit of the letter of the 1976 act. for these reasons, the national legislative and administrative authorities, as well as the judicial authorities, cannot fail to take account of the community's legal framework in electoral matters. the compatibility of mr occhetto's resignation must first be assessed in the light of article 4 of the 1976 act, which states that members of parliament cannot be bound by instructions in receiving mandatory mandates and that the freedom and independence of members is the fundamental pillar of the freedom of the citizen. this is laid down in the 1976 act, but the new statute for members of the european parliament which i am now quoting, although it enters into force in the next parliamentary term, is at present a legislative act of primary law in the community system, adopted by the european parliament with the approval of the council and published in the official journal. it is quite clear that mr occhetto's decision to withdraw from the election is the result of an expression of will that was conditioned and vitiated by an agreement concluded with the other party on the list of civil society, di pietro-occhetto, before the 2004 european elections were declared, and that this decision must be considered incompatible with the letter and spirit of the 1976 act, in particular article 6. it could not in any circumstances be validly revoked, as it has been revoked. in giving reasons for its decision to the contrary, the council of state - and i repeat this in this italian-speaking chamber - made no mention of or took account of the principles of community law mentioned above, thereby disregarding not only the spirit and the letter of the act but also articles 4 and 6 of the text. in accordance with settled case-law of the court of justice of the european communities, the infringement of community law by the authorities of a member state, even if committed by a court of last instance, by a judgment which has been entered in the register, does not prevent the court of justice from being able to find that the national supreme court has infringed community law. but it does not relieve the state, in this case italy to which the said court belongs, of its financial responsibility, as established. i think that this clearly shows the situation in which we find ourselves. i want to say two things quickly which belong to italian law. the act of waiver may validly have as its object rights which are present and in that case it is fully operative in terms of the explanation and effectiveness of the waiver which mr occhetto made in respect of mr chiesa. the waiver is also valid for future rights, but of course this waiver can be revoked before the event is determined, before the waiver holder is in a position to effectively waive. the resignation of mr occhetto following the announcement of the election results did not alter the ranking of the candidates on the di pietro-occhetto list. the final point, mr president, is that it is a basic principle of law to recognize that a waiver can only take effect when the necessary conditions for the exercise of the right have been met. for this very reason, in the decision of 3 july 2006, which is used to demonstrate a contradiction with what we have done - precisely because of that decision of the legal affairs committee - we gave a favourable opinion on the election of occhetto, because at the time the proclamation was in accordance with the european act, because we recognised his resignation as invalid, irrelevant and null and void. and donnici's exceptions were irrelevant then. that is why there is no contradiction. we decided this last year, and today we can confirm that same decision because it is consistent, it was deliberated by a legal committee which is of course not partisan, but it is in the interests of this parliament to promote and guarantee its autonomy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one thing i agree with, it is that there is a risk that this parliament's decision will mark a truly historic milestone, because it will compromise issues, problems, principles and rules that go far beyond the episode. the principle and the rule laid down by the treaty rules concerning national competence to settle disputes concerning the electoral procedure and thus to proclaim the elected, for whom parliament then proceeds to the so-called verification of powers, that is to say of electoral titles, has never been called into question by this parliament. in support of what i am saying, i would prefer to quote, rather than comment, the text of the parliament's decision, adopted on 14 december 2004 by this plenary, to validate the mandate of all of us elected in that round of european elections. the mandate was validated, i quote, 'subject to any decisions of the competent authorities of the member states in the event of contestation of electoral results'. this plenary session has confirmed a rule that we all know! i would add that in support of its decision the committee on legal affairs refers to a number of articles both of the european electoral act and of the rules of procedure, and it continues to refer to parliament's power to intervene in the event of resignation. but we're not talking about any resignation! the question on which the italian courts have ruled is whether or not to contest or resolve the dispute over the election of mr di pietro as a member of parliament, with mr occhetto or mr donnici replacing him. the dispute was resolved by a provisional and not final judgment, which had led to the proclamation of occhetto; then the subsequent ruling of the council of state of the electoral office, is the same mr. gargani, it does not matter the judgment before the litigant, the final ruling of the council of state that proclaimed mr. donnici. we are not discussing the resignation of mr occhetto, its compatibility with the formula, the letter or the mandate, we are discussing only the prerogative and the powers of the national authorities to proclaim a member whose electoral titles are then validated. the consequences of the vote we are about to cast would be a very serious institutional conflict, a breach of the rules of the treaty, the possible vacancy of a seat, because in any case it would be the national authorities who would then have to proclaim the elected one as an alternative to the one whose mandate has not been validated. i would like to conclude by expressing my appreciation for the members of the committee. ms. gargani, no one questions the competence of the members, and you have my full admiration, because the true competence of a lawyer is judged not when he defends cases won, but when he defends cases lost. the way in which you have achieved this result deserves all my appreciation and esteem.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect for the multitude of eminent jurists who would be crowding the legal affairs committee, i am more modestly of the opinion that if this house were to approve the gargani report tomorrow, the european parliament would be committing a very serious and unprecedented act, an unprecedented arbitrariness against a member who would be unlawfully deprived of his parliamentary mandate, an unprecedented and singular violation of the treaties which clearly recognize the supremacy of the laws, procedures and authority of the member states in electoral matters. a serious conflict with a member state, which would be deprived of a member recognised as such by the laws and judiciary of that country. mr president, the committee on legal affairs has usurped powers that do not belong to it. i'm not running for either candidate. i am politically indifferent because we are both centre-left, and i understand mr occhetto's personal problem, which is also one i like humanly. but what is at stake here is the law, the correct composition of the european parliament, the credibility of the highest community institution. justice must therefore be respected, and justice alone, and politics and petty party calculations must be kept out of it. that citizens should have confidence in a european parliament which falsifies its composition by excluding a member who has all the qualifications to be a member. let 's get down to business . the court has declared donnici guilty. the italian state has informed the european parliament of the election. the committee has been instructed to verify the credentials of mr donnici. he had to check his credentials and his compatibility. it is true that it could examine third party complaints and therefore legitimately examined the objections raised by mr occhetto. what it could not do was to declare an act made before a public official of a member state to be void. this is a judicial activity which is the exclusive responsibility of the judicial authority of the member state which dealt with it and which has given an irrevocable and final judgment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr gargani, because the subject was very complex and difficult, and the work was done with great wisdom and responsibility, following a single criterion: the first is to protect the rights and prerogatives of this parliament. the point of summary, the point of failure of the decisions taken is right and above all it prevents the setting of a precedent, that is to say the recognition of acts or initiatives which bind the choices of candidates or those who are about to become members of the european parliament. it is true that this is new and probably has precedent, but it is a precedent and a fair and new guarantee in relation to the prerogatives of the european parliament. the acts we are performing are linked to a function, to a prerogative that is recognized to us and gives us the right to express ourselves, to accept, judge or reject the credentials and acts that are submitted to us. so no one is exempt, but only the right to express an opinion which this parliament itself gives us.
in writing. i shall vote against the motion for a resolution for the following reasons, which i am sure will be accepted by the court of justice. the proposal is wrong because: 1) in general, the appointment of elected representatives is reserved to the national bodies as laid down in articles 7 and 11 of the act of 20 september 1976; 2) in point c: mr occhetto did not renounce his mandate but his appointment by the italian central electoral office and his position on the list of candidates voted for; the resignation referred to in rule 3 (5) is that of a member who has already been appointed and does not relate to acts preceding the appointment; (3) in point d: the prohibition of mandatory appointment relates to the exercise of a mandate already received and not to conduct prior to appointment; (4) in letters e, f and g: reference to the statute for members not yet in force and, in any event, to members subsequent to their appointment is unnecessary; (5) j, i, k and l: the council of state, by a final judgment, not only annulled but reformed the earlier decision of the tar; (6) the number 2: parliament may not replace the italian office in the appointment of a member of parliament.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the growth of the european economy depends increasingly on the capacity of innovation and technological adaptation of the european production system, so that it can be competitive in an increasingly hostile international system. unfortunately, europe's innovation gap with other major world economies, starting with the united states, is still large and to europe's detriment. although we can say that in our europe, in the states of europe, there is a great deal of research capacity in universities, in centres of excellence, in laboratories; a widespread excellence and a high level of specialist and scientific knowledge. what europe is lacking dramatically is the possibility and the capacity to transfer this research, its results, into production processes. the capacity for technological transfer of know-how, which research enables, is lacking in order to renew the production system, enterprises and service companies in all areas, in terms of product, process and organisational innovation. commissioner, the efforts you and the commission are making to promote innovation are very positive: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we need such initiatives and we need more of them. we must define organizational instruments, more accessible procedural paths so that our efforts can really have a concrete result in the context of the production and service system in europe. in order to increase innovation in europe, i also think it is necessary, as our colleague mr gierek's report says, to start from a cultural conception which is favourable to innovation, including the school, which may seem distant from the production processes, but it is not! today's students are tomorrow's workers, entrepreneurs! we must insist that europe has an attitude, a mentality, an openness to change, to research, to experimentation, in short, a willingness to provide training. i think that this is important at a time when we are talking a lot about training in europe. the public sector is an important issue, as you pointed out in the commission's report and as we have also mentioned in our resolution. i strongly believe in the contribution that the public sector can make to innovation, whether directly through improvements that result in a better, more appropriate quality in the provision of public administration services; if public administration is renewed, if it adopts more appropriate production processes, it can also help the development of the economy, the reduction of costs. the last quote is the one defined by the clusters. the commissioner has spoken about this, my colleagues have spoken about this, and it is very important to link territorial policy with innovation.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr newton dunn, on this report. i think that the importance of developing all the means at our disposal in the fight against organised crime is clear to everyone, and i do not think anyone can doubt it. i shall confine myself to giving a few brief indications of some recent progress which the european union has made in this field and some initiatives which the european commission will be taking in the very near future. firstly, i particularly agree with the rapporteur, precisely because it is a matter of improving our knowledge of the phenomenon of organised crime. we do not have a clear picture of the scale of the crime phenomenon and the flows of organised crime. the development of europol's activities in this field is particularly noteworthy. europol, as you know, this year, starting in 2007, will publish and propose to supplement its traditional crime intelligence report on the state of crime in europe with an annual threat assessment. the europol report will therefore be a proactive report and not just a knowledge report; the commission will therefore be able to indicate, year by year, the sectors in which the threat of organised crime has increased and, as we hope, those in which the threat will also have decreased. unfortunately, we are seeing a growing increase in all the major areas of organized crime. another important achievement, the rapporteur was now referring to, is european action in the field of crime statistics. we have not yet had a statistical picture. you will recall that in a communication adopted last year i proposed a system of crime statistics at european level. we have already set up a group of experts and i am pleased to say that eurostat has already published the first european crime statistics. we're starting to see some real results. in the field of prevention, which is extremely important, we have decided to concentrate, for example, on the fight against corruption, which is often linked to organized crime networks. we have decided to establish a european network of national experts in constant contact, precisely for the purpose of preventing corruption. i have considered including in the programme for next year, 2008, an initiative which will explore the links between corruption, money laundering and therefore organised crime networks. this is an area where europe needs to do more. there is also a great deal of action on human trafficking; there is an action plan, already adopted and in the process of being developed, for concrete implementation. as you probably know, we have also been promoting a european day every year, specifically against human trafficking, which will be a concrete sign of a development, of a european awareness which has so far been insufficient. we also thought we should focus on witness protection, which is essential if we are to fight organised crime. i shall be putting a working document with some concrete proposals before the end of july this year, that is to say within the next two months, at the disposal of this parliament. this working document will be the result of an analysis we have made with the police, with the judicial authorities of the member states, on how witnesses in the fight against organised crime should be protected, because if witnesses are not protected, a fundamental element in the fight against organised crime is lost. on police and judicial cooperation, coordination must be strengthened, in particular between europol and eurojust. a multidisciplinary approach is certainly essential and we have done a lot for europol. i have proposed a new statute for europol to increase its powers, extend its mandate and give europol more flexibility. unfortunately, organised crime has a very high degree of adaptability and so europol must also be extremely more flexible. i hope that the council will accept our proposal for community funding for europol. this would have the immediate advantage of democratic control by the european parliament over the use of europol's budget, which would then be subject to a democratic parliamentary supervisory authority in a more transparent manner. as you know, the council is still somewhat reluctant to accept this proposal of mine. on the operational side, europol is gaining strength. where's the weak spot? the weak point is that the member states do not provide europol with the necessary operational information that europol needs to coordinate its activities. you probably know that the central information system of europol is fed 70% by only five member states and 30% by all the others. this shows what europol could be if all member states contributed better. this is something they will have to do now because all three europol protocols have entered into force and so cooperation will be better. eurojust also needs to do more. i will certainly be presenting a proposal on eurojust this autumn, i think between october and november, and it will be a proposal to strengthen eurojust's powers of initiative. the point at the heart of my initiative will be the association of eurojust, i would say the normal, systematic association with the joint investigation teams. these joint investigation teams are a fundamental tool in the fight against crime and eurojust is called upon to participate in the joint investigation teams in an insufficient, non-organic and sometimes episodic way. that's not right! eurojust must be a regular player in the joint investigation teams in order to increase its capacity. of course, all this great work we are doing must always strike a balance between the security requirements which are, as i am personally convinced, a fundamental right of the citizen. citizens have a right to security, but alongside security there are other rights, also fundamental rights, and so i believe that the issue of data protection in the area of police cooperation - a matter which has not yet received a positive response in the council, despite my proposal a year and a half ago - will finally have to find an organic answer, namely a european legislative initiative on data protection in the so-called third pillar. this will also serve to give the citizen a tangible sign that alongside strong action against organised crime, we strongly respect other fundamental rights such as the right to the processing of personal data. in all these areas, i hope that the council will decide in june to incorporate the provisions of the prüm treaty into european legislation, that is to say, to move from what has been a simple enhanced cooperation between some member states to a provision which is organically integrated into the context of community legislation. if the council, i hope, gives the green light to this proposal, we shall have taken a step forward. finally, i would like to mention two themes. firstly, the practical implementation of the new fundamental rights agency, which was inaugurated in march, which will be an important instrument for ensuring respect for fundamental rights, also at the request of parliament and the commission, in the field of cooperation and police investigations. and the big theme is fighting organized cybercrime. as you know, yesterday i presented a communication on so-called cyber crime, which deals with various sectors of organised cyber crime, from paedophilia to cyber attacks on banking systems. i believe that this cybercrime issue is one of the new frontiers on which this parliament will obviously be able to work.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done and also the commissioner for the concrete steps he has taken and for the information he has given to parliament this evening. this report is certainly an important sign of the political will to fight vigorously against the phenomenon of organized crime, which is unfortunately becoming more and more widespread. a crime that has, despite us, developed a criminal network across national borders. we have not been able to provide the police services with the necessary tools to combat it. we must therefore offer a strong, authoritative and credible response, strengthening all the instruments of cooperation, as the commissioner said, from knowledge of the criminal phenomenon to the acquisition of statistical data, from the improvement and simplification of the exchange of information, to the improvement of investigation methods, to the strengthening of the coordination of investigative and repressive activities. i personally believe that the creation of more effective instruments of cooperation and linkage at european level, such as europol, is the key to strengthening trust between member states, to creating the necessary synergies between national police authorities and to launching a genuine european policy in this field. in recent years, criminal associations have increasingly taken the form of a real enterprise, finding in the economic and financial markets the preferred place for the laundering of illicit proceeds, and the damage that this entails for the national and community economies is easily imaginable. we must also combat organised crime on the economic side and systematically attack the financial resources, movable and immovable property lawfully acquired. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i also hope, and i take note of the commissioner's communication, that the united nations convention on transnational organized crime and the two protocols on human trafficking and the smuggling of migrants will be ratified and applied as soon as possible. i am sure that on the basis of these indications concrete proposals will be made by the commission in the near future and i take note of this with great pleasure tonight and i wish the commissioner good work, who has not only shown himself to be sensitive to these issues but has also put into practice some of the initiatives he has outlined tonight.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat organised crime, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat it. exactly on may 23rd, 15 years ago, a very serious event happened in the history of italy, in the history of europe: an important judge like giovanni falcone was murdered by the mafia in a terrifying way, blowing up the highway in the stretch from the airport to the city of palermo. that judge, his wife, and three other officers in the escort died with him. and 1992 was a terrible year, because after falcone, another judge was murdered by organized crime, by the mafia, like paolo borsellino. both of them understood the importance of implementing international police and judicial cooperation and therefore understood the need to fight criminal organisations at a higher level, at an international level, aiming above all at intercepting the capital of criminal and mafia organisations. falcone and borsellino were the latest victims of a series of massacres in republican italy that began with the portella della ginestra massacre on may 1, 1947. so much has changed in recent years, criminal organizations have become transnational and this changeover was already completed at the end of the 1980s, when the liberal dogma was affirmed in the policy of the international monetary fund and the world bank. the globalisation of the economy and finance has been achieved by deregulating financial and trade markets, privatising services and strengthening tax havens. what has been established is what a leading research institute, the transnational institute in amsterdam, has called the globalfix, that is, the global compromise between the theoretically legal economy and the criminal economy. international trafficking in arms, drugs and money laundering. the criminal vocation of liberal globalisation has in some ways been established. if we look at the world bank and the international monetary fund, we find that the underground economy has quadrupled since the 1980s. in 2001, the value of the underground trade was between $6.5 and $9 trillion a year, or between 20 and 25 percent of the world's gross domestic product. we are talking about a horrifying figure that could help to reduce poverty on a global scale. important developments have taken place in this context. first of all, the collapse of the soviet union, which meant that many state assets were transferred in cash and directly to cartels and criminal organizations. it is no coincidence that the russian mafia is very strong today, both economically and politically. a lot of this money is in many swiss accounts, in the cayman islands, in the islands that mr matsakis was talking about, in the strait of gibraltar. and the other big phenomenon that took hold in the 1990s was the american and british push for deregulation of financial and international markets. the globalisation of financial markets has the seeds of a reorganisation of criminal powers. the other big event that expanded the profits of organized crime was the resumption of war activities. war and its intertwining with liberal globalization has led to a frightening increase in profits for international mafias, starting with the increase in profits from drugs. in the andean region of colombia, the logic of the war on drugs has led to an exponential growth in coca production and its transformation of coca plants into cocaine. the war in the balkans has turned that territory into a free zone where dirty capital is now recycled and heroin refined for the european market. and think of what happened in afghanistan! in 2001, before the military occupation, opium production was 74 tons per year. in 2006, the source is the us state department, opium production rose to over 6000 tons, a growth strongly linked to the military occupation. today, afghanistan produces 93% of the world's total opium. how much is the production of drugs worth in the global market today? the un, which unfortunately is not very credible on this subject, says that 1% of the world's gdp is derived from drug trafficking; the us state department says it's 2.5% and the european monitoring centre for drugs says that between 2 and 5% of the world's gdp is generated by international drug trafficking. and that's just a figure, because to that we add human trafficking, arms, waste, counterfeiting of products and all these profits are immediately recycled and put on the legal market. we must intervene on capital, assets and financial transactions, and that is why we believe that the confiscation of assets of the mafia, of transnational organized crime, is a central point in the fight we must wage against the mafia. pio la torre understood this and proposed a law to the italian parliament in which he said that action should be taken mainly on capital. that is why i support the report by mr newton dunn, because it deals with this point, where it is emphasized that we must intervene by attacking the capital of criminal and mafia organizations. a section of my group will not support this report, perhaps for understandable reasons, because it considers it to be lacking in safeguards, particularly on the processing of personal data. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think that the fight against organised crime is a priority, but it is not just a matter for the police. we must intervene in the cultural field, we must build a real social anti-mafia, which will take charge of the large pockets of social discomfort, unemployment and we must also intervene in the political field. in recent years, the mafia, transnational criminal organizations have infiltrated public administration and politics. it is not by chance, and i conclude on this, that the president of my region, for example, is being investigated for links with organised crime and the mafia. i would like to end by supporting the paragraph in the newton dunn report which calls for monitoring the activities of these administrations which are infiltrated by organised crime, by the mafia.
in writing. the phenomenon of organised crime in europe, whether mafia-style or similar, is taking root and spreading rapidly in the 'old continent'. this is a worrying phenomenon which takes advantage of the free movement of people and of economic and financial flows within the european union to develop its illegal activities more and more, also in non-community countries. the latter include the smuggling of arms and waste (including radioactive waste), drug trafficking, the sexual exploitation of women and children, trafficking in human tissue (the cases discovered and reported a few days ago in ukraine are of dramatic actuality), the racket of animals and works of art. the report by mr newton dunn highlights, amongst many other points, the role played so far by europol and eurojust - the only community instruments available - in the fight against organised crime, highlighting some of the results achieved but deploring the lack of genuine autonomy for them. in this connection, i would like to renew my proposal, already addressed to the commission and the council in february 2004, to provide for the creation of a european observatory on organised crime with the aim of reducing the disparities in penalties between the different legal systems of the individual member states, duly noted by my colleague newton dunn.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial policy' and to extend the scope of the concept of 'commercial policy' to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial policy'.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. i doubt the validity of the approach of the european commission which, under the rather sympathetic appearance of a concern for administrative simplification, is likely to take less account of the specificities of certain productions. i also regret that my colleagues in the committee on agriculture and i myself have not had time to study the european commission's proposal under the right conditions, because of the hellish timetable dictated by the council presidency. the whole procedure should have been given more thought in the european institutions, and i regret that such a fundamental subject has not been given more time. that is why i abstained in the final vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to say that i abstained in the vote on cites, not because i disagree with many of the points in the resolution, but because here, as so often, we are imposing on the developing countries behaviour which we feel is right but which, from the point of view of those countries, may not be so happy. that is why i abstained.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is an international campaign under way to delegitimize venezuela, its freely elected president and all its democratic institutions. today's debate has an organic link to this international campaign: even the european parliament is inappropriately discussing a matter which falls exclusively within the national competence of venezuela. we are discussing human rights violations in the wrong section, when we all know that no human rights have been violated. it is not by chance that this item on the agenda was requested by a group of members and not by an official delegation of the european parliament - as some have tried to claim - but by a group of members who went to venezuela and met only the opposition. in reality, the failure to renew the licences of radio caracas tv is a matter for the venezuelan authorities alone and is in compliance with the laws and constitution of that country. radio caracas tv will be able to broadcast via cable, satellite, and the internet, so those who say this is an act hostile to freedom of expression know they are lying. there are many cases in europe of non-renewal of frequency concessions and never has this parliament discussed violations of human rights and restrictions on freedom of expression. in fact, freedom of expression, pluralism of information and even television broadcasting are guaranteed in venezuela. in the specific case of radio caracas tv, we are talking about a television station that actively participated in sponsoring the 2002 coup and the 2002 and 2003 oil blockade. therefore, any subversive activities should be blamed on those who promoted the breakdown of venezuela's democratic and constitutional order through a terrorist campaign and manipulation of information, certainly not a democratically elected government that is actively demonstrating its social commitment.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group/european free alliance considers that the non-renewal of the rctv frequency concession is a politically inappropriate precedent, as such measures should be limited to specific cases provided for by law. at the same time, we refuse to join a campaign which is justified not only by what is happening in venezuela, but is taking place in a member state of the european union, namely spain, where this issue is being actively used. we believe that dealing with such matters in an emergency, in a situation where there is no possibility of substantive work on the subject of freedom of expression, not only in venezuela but also in several other countries of the european union, is not a factor that gives our parliament the right to work in a credible way on these issues. we cannot be divided into right and left on these matters, we cannot have a vote where one part of this house goes one way and the other part goes the other. we must give a positive message, one that encourages dialogue and avoids evoking ghosts and devils. we think and hope that a paragraph will be adopted in the resolution, which we will not support, so that our committees can work together on these matters, so that we can have a united position and possibly help the debate in venezuela. it is not a question of interference in national affairs, but one cannot talk about legality or illegitimacy in vain. we are talking about an important issue, where there are indeed risks, which we recognize, of a narrowing of the space of freedoms in venezuela, but this does not justify a witch hunt which is not in keeping with the dignity of the european union.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when mr wolfowitz was appointed to head the world bank, our parliament, through its committee on development, sent an open letter in which it described exactly all the problems from a governance and therefore rule of law point of view, as well as from an international point of view, that such an appointment could cause. the facts have justified this initiative, which unfortunately has remained isolated within the european union, since neither the commission nor the members of the council have ever really wanted to commit themselves to developing a european position on the bretton woods institutions. i think we have a challenge in the next few weeks: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report insists on the wrong way of therapeutic perseverance in order to keep alive a constitution rejected by the people and then supported by great patriots of federalism, such as the president of the italian council, mr prodi, who denies the north, the padania, internal federalism, fiscal federalism in order to have justice from "thieving rome". the report in question avoids the issue of the criteria for the limits of enlargement, which, as prime minister balkenende rightly said, is at the heart of the european political debate. instead of dwelling on these legal subterfuges, europe should concentrate on the real issues and mobilise its energies to defend production, work and employment, for example by responding with facts and not with smoky bureaucratic language, as commissioner mandelson has done, to the heavy and timely remarks of european industries asking to be defended against the stop to anti-dumping measures that the ultra-liberal commissioner for trade has imposed since the beginning of the year. our firms and employment are suffering from these wrong choices, which are further accentuated by the decision today by the european central bank to raise discount rates. the choices made by brussels europe are wrong because they slow down the path towards progress, employment and the well-being of europe and are therefore very far from the deepest feelings and opinions of the european citizens who pay taxes also to maintain brussels.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner and high representative, as has been mentioned, this debate is taking place on the 40th anniversary of the occupation of the west bank and gaza. what was supposed to be a flash war turned into a never-ending nightmare: forty years is such a long time that entire generations of palestinians have known nothing but occupation, humiliation, checkpoints and then the wall and almost total captivity: mobility is now virtually impossible in the occupied territories! the european union has also been a major player in the development of the middle east, and we have seen the emergence of a new middle east. we are facing two peoples exhausted by war and endless violence. we want to reiterate, as the socialist group has done for some time and clearly, that the only way to bring constructive elements into a situation which is deteriorating without end is to support openly the palestinian government of national unity. the european union must also make a commitment to the international community to send an intervention force to prevent the violence of recent weeks in gaza from escalating further, to restore a minimum of civilian conditions for the population and respect for international law and, above all, to break the cycle of endless violence. we expect israel to show signs other than the killings and indiscriminate arrests in response to the launch of qassam rockets at sderot. the occupation, the settlements, the wall and the situation in jerusalem make the prospect of two states more unlikely every day, even un sources say today: the responsibility of the un, the united states, russia, europe and the entire international community is to act before any possibility of coexistence is definitively overturned. finally, i would remind you that there is an arab plan which offers israel a prospect of peace, not only with the palestinians but with all the arab countries. we must work on this with more conviction! prime minister olmert himself has said in recent days that this plan can be a basis for negotiation. i hope he did not do this just because his government is particularly weak. the situation in lebanon is just as serious, as you have mentioned, and i believe that the unifil forces must be supported and strengthened, and finally we want to ask our president, mr poettering, to act to convene an extraordinary meeting of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly.
i have received two motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the agenda calls into question the council and commission statements on the management of european maritime borders, european solidarity and the protection of the rights of migrants.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini was right to speak of solidarity, but we should first express our solidarity to the families of those who drowned in the mediterranean sea. solidarity to explain to ourselves that we should stop calling them illegal immigrants, we should probably call them castaways, because that's what it's all about: the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the people of europe, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. we must say it clearly: there are serious responsibilities! commissioner frattini made this clear in an interview with an italian newspaper, he spoke of the grave responsibilities of the maltese government. this is something that must be emphasized in this chamber, and also the fact that we have not even had the pietas to bury these people, and have even refused to welcome them after they are dead. so we should seriously ask ourselves whether frontex may have a specific task, but its priority must be to save people at sea. we said that last time when we discussed the rapid response teams at the borders. unfortunately, this is yet another tragedy, in the last ten years over 9,000 people have drowned trying to reach europe. this is the biggest tragedy of the last ten years! we should also ask ourselves whether we need to widen the legal channels to allow people to enter legally and whether we can also revise the dublin ii regulation to avoid what is happening and what has happened recently. look, something serious is going on here in my opinion: we are losing the foundations of western civilization, the foundation of hospitality and the right to be buried. as the great greek tragic writers have taught us, we should start from there and also rethink a new idea of welcome and hospitality for europe!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, vice-president frattini, i agree with what you have said today and in the interviews of the past few days, but the one who does not agree with you at all is the maltese foreign minister. in a statement this afternoon, he said that malta could not take charge of illegal immigrants who were not legally under its jurisdiction. twenty-one people drowning are not a legal problem and someone at the next meeting of the council of ministers, whether it be the presidency or the commission, must explain to the maltese government the difference between illegal immigrants and shipwrecked people. i think that someone should remind the maltese foreign minister that a maltese-flagged fishing vessel decided to leave 27 people tied to a tuna line because it felt that it was more important to save the tuna caught than human lives. i think that the commission should be able to explain to the maltese minister and to all our other ministers that humanitarian law is independent of the legal obligations and conventions signed by our countries. i think it is important to move from words to deeds, and i agree with you that frontex funds must be released, that all countries must take responsibility for this need, but at the same time the possibility of obtaining these funds, frontex or the european return fund, must be made conditional on compliance with the obligation to provide assistance to every shipwrecked person, whatever his situation and whatever the legal status of his shipwreck. this is one of the working hypotheses with which we shall be able to deal with this problem in the coming days with the other ministers.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the report by mr fausto correira, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the kingdom of belgium, the republic of bulgaria, the federal republic of germany, the kingdom of spain, the french republic, the grand duchy of luxembourg, the kingdom of the netherlands, the republic of austria, the republic of slovenia, the slovak republic, the italian republic, the republic of finland, the portuguese republic, romania and the kingdom of sweden on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and crossborder crime (prüm treaty) [06566/2007 - c6-0079/2007 - 2007/0804 (cns) ] (a6-0207/2007) on the proposal for a council decision on the consultation of the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a council decision on the strengthening of crossborder cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and crossborder crime (prüm treaty) [06566/2007 - c6-0079/2007 - 2007/0804 (cns)) (a6-0205/2007) ] (com (2005) 0156-0236 final) on the proposal for a council decision on the framework decision on the consultation of the european parliament and the council (cns) on the proposal for a council decision on the exchange of information, within the european parliament and the european parliament of 2005/06-015 council decision on the european parliament and the european parliament's regulation on the system for the protection of personal data of the european parliament and the kingdom of the kingdom of the netherlands, the kingdom of the kingdom of the kingdom of the kingdom of austria, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic, the slovak republic,
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take the floor to say that i was in tokyo, japan, with the eu-japan delegation last week. as a member of the european parliament elected by the party of retired persons, i was immediately interested in the situation of japanese pensioners. to my great surprise, all the front pages of the newspapers reported that 30 million workers' contributions had disappeared due to a mistake in the electronic center of the japanese social security institution, and many japanese workers will not get their rightful pension. what a serious mistake in the age of technology by such an advanced and important state! but has the same thing happened in europe? would it not be good to check in our 27 member states whether the data of all workers are kept in order to have a secure pension, how secure must the pension of each worker be?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express to the honourable member, through mrs griesbeck, my deepest appreciation for the excellent work of the rapporteur, mrs claire gibault. from his experience in the field as a conductor, he was able to identify the main obstacles that artists face on their path. i fully agree with you that no artist is totally safe from precariousness at any stage of his career and it is precisely on the basis of this consideration that more targeted action is needed to protect the category and the operators in the sector. the specific characteristics of artistic activities require an adaptation of the regulatory framework of the member states in order to guarantee the status of artists, but harmonizing measures are also needed by the european union, especially in order to facilitate their mobility, and it is also essential to lay the foundations for a homogeneous training system by ensuring the recognition of qualifications awarded throughout the union, ensuring an ever greater professionalism of artistic teaching and even encouraging it through exchanges and interactions for teachers and students as in the erasmus programme model. finally, i find the proposal for a specific temporary visa for artists, which would facilitate the mobility of european and non-european professionals in the course of their work, interesting and desirable. the universal languages of art are also known to be an extraordinary vehicle for cultural, social and human promotion. in conclusion, i would like to say that i will support the two amendments tabled by the rapporteur for consideration in the house this morning, and in particular amendment no 20a which calls for new forms of support for artists through a special fund set up through a levy on the commercial exploitation of original creations and their free-of-rights interpretations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs doris pack struck me as being critical of the lack of action by the member states and the commission, and yet she was the first to raise this issue 15 years ago. it would have been worse, however, if he had to say what he said now, 15 years from now, saying: 'thirty years ago i proposed a regime for artists'. the initiative of mr gibault will certainly achieve something better than what we have now. and now i'm going to begin the surgery i've been preparing for. in europe, mr president, all the citizens of the 27 member states of the european union hope for something. when they are workers, they hope to have a future, and when they are elderly pensioners, they hope to have a secure present. among these are also the artists, whose activity is often a source of recreation and enjoyment for the many millions of other citizens who watch, listen, approve and appreciate their performances. but our present aim is that the artist should be considered a worker with the rights of all workers, an artist is a man and a worker and as such has the right to working conditions worthy of a european citizen. how many artists do not become famous, who carry out their artistic activity humbly every day and do not receive the right remuneration and the right respect, and will not have the right pension? i am sure that this initiative will help to ensure that artists too have a future or a present.
i would like to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur in particular for the measure we are about to discuss here, but my group will hardly be voting in favour of it on two points i would like to stress. the first: this reform, which is so important for a sector which employs thousands, if not millions, of workers in both agriculture and processing, can completely change the picture once we have climate change directives. if it is true that europe is rightly moving towards increasing alternative production - biodiesel, biofuels, mass production and biomass from wood - then this means that a few million hectares will be taken away from agricultural and food production for human and animal consumption. this is already happening in large countries like china, according to news reports these days. the second aspect is that the reform under consideration does not address one of the problems raised in this house, namely that in recent years the profits of agricultural production have all gone to the benefit of commercial enterprises and large multinationals: according to some statistics, between 60 and 70% of the profits of agricultural production remain in the hands of the distribution chain. now, the reform under consideration does not address that problem. these are the basic reasons we are raising and it is therefore unlikely that we will be able to support a positive vote in the house tomorrow.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the events surrounding the g8 and its likely failure - which i would certainly not regret personally - make us look at the european council as an important moment for the european union, in which coherence and ambition must go hand in hand, also because the presidency of this parliament has accepted that this process is exclusively intergovernmental. i am very worried that we will soon be witnessing a repetition of the night in nice and i am sorry that this parliament has not been able to fight harder to have a more important role in the current process. the fundamental problem for us is not to give in to the temptation to remain on the defensive and wait to see what the opponents say, so that we can then "harmonize" with them. this attitude is wrong and in the past it has meant that we have had to adapt to compromises for which we are paying the price today. i think it would be much more intelligent and serious if we joined the 18 countries which want a european constitution and went on the offensive. for example, you have mentioned the issue of climate change, but from my various interviews and conversations it seems to me that it will be a kind of cosmetic touch-up. why would you do that? when mrs wallström was environment commissioner, she put forward a very clever and interesting proposal for a protocol on sustainability. let us take it seriously and let us make sure that the debate on climate change actually translates into more power and more money for the european union in this text, instead of deceiving the european citizens on the subject with some kind of cosmetic chatter. we have many ideas on how to improve the constitutional text: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we have to be offensive in the debate and not just defensive. another aspect concerns our institution: i am absolutely convinced, and my group is with me, that we must, in the context of the discussion at the intergovernmental conference, re-launch the subject of the european lists. the european lists are a way of becoming more european, a point we lost by a few votes a few years ago. however, in the run-up to the 2009 european elections, we need to get back to talking about what europe really is and how citizens can really vote for a parliament that is powerful and influential. for this reason, mr president, my group and i are not at all satisfied with the idea of having three or four small observers at the intergovernmental conference. we need to have a lot more. we must ensure that there is an open dialogue with the council on the basis of agreements reached in such a way that we, as the elected representatives of the european people, can also have the power to say what we think, because through us the citizens can also do so. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this six-month period the german presidency has a very important responsibility, because we all trust in your leadership to finally arrive at a positive solution to the question of the european constitutional treaty. parliament is strongly committed to supporting a europe which can become a political actor. we know that a compromise will have to be reached, and we know that not all the work of the convention and not all the text of the treaty approved by so many countries will be able to enter into force. but there are some things parliament cannot go back on: i am referring to matters such as majority voting, legal personality, foreign policy, even flags and anthems. we have a lot to discuss, and parliament will have to play an important role, so we are formally asking, mr president-in-office, that parliament, through its president and its delegates, be able to take an active part in the intergovernmental conference, in other words, that it be able to play a leading role alongside the governments and the commission. i must once again appeal to them never to forget who they are, never to forget their judeo-christian roots. the last issue i want to deal with is the next council meeting, namely the question of immigration. in europe, and this is coming from a member of parliament who is from the southern front of the european union - my country, italy, has 7,000 kilometres of coastline - we are experiencing worrying emergencies every day, in malta, in spain, in france. we call on the european union to make a serious commitment to strengthening the frontex project and to strengthening all the initiatives that will help to curb illegal immigration within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to the honourable member who preceded me, the pensioners' party is very much in favour of the existence of a europe which is also political and which brings benefits to the citizens, in particular to the citizens who want to have a future, because they are working today, and to the citizens who want to have a present, because they are now retired and have the right to live better than the elderly and pensioners did in the past. that is why they expect security from europe, because too often, if not always, the states are not interested in the real everyday questions which concern the citizens, such as whether they can survive in a world society which looks only at the 'god of money' and not at the human being, in all his seasons, from birth to old age. we therefore hope that the european constitution will be adopted as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the party of pensioners i voted in favour of mr gibault's report on working conditions and the pension of artists. there are artists who become very famous and who certainly do not need the european parliament to facilitate their circulation and the conditions of their pension, but there are also very good artists who unfortunately do not succeed; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there are artists who live a life of work and misery, of lack of regulation and lack of respect. this is all the more so when the person being disrespected has a sensitive soul, like artists. for these reasons i voted in favour and i hope that europe will do more for artists throughout europe and the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the broadband networks are not used for the purpose of exploiting the potential of the internet. it is an opportunity which, to be such, must be accessible to all. widespread access is an essential prerequisite for social development, better public services and knowledge-based economic growth. in order to achieve universal access to broadband, it is the european union's duty to ensure that all citizens have access to it, allowing its benefits to be extended across europe and in particular in developed regions. in other words, we need to close the digital divide. the market alone is not enough. in addition to market forces, it is important that member states, and in particular regions and municipalities, establish incentives to stimulate the development of broadband in disadvantaged regions. it is therefore important that broadband, the spectrum available for wireless links and mobile satellite communications, be made available through free, transparent and open tendering, but also that public bodies leave room for experimentation for a part of the spectrum that can be used for the use of new technologies and new types of organisation. only if we can make spectrum available to all can we make an investment in the future for a better society.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 june 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on economic and trade relations between the european union and russia (2006/2237 ((ini)) (a6-0206/2007).
member of the commission. madam president, i would like very briefly to thank the members for this interesting and very useful debate. it will give us ideas and inspirations on how we can proceed with this important issue in the future. i should like to give some information on the questions that have been posed. first of all, creating the link to the health portal is already under way; as we speak, it may have been done already. so, access to this information through the health portal will be made available to all citizens very soon, if it is not already available. the commission will support the creation of a european register on multiple sclerosis, which will mostly be based on the existing registers in some member states and expanded to include the other member states. more importantly – because we have to be practical as well –funds to support this initiative will be provided under the seventh framework programme. on other issues, of course, many pieces of legislation are already in place, such as the issue of discrimination and access to work. however, based on the outcome of the conference which will take place in the future, which i mentioned in my opening speech, and on the discussion with the stakeholders, we will see if there is also a need for new legislative initiatives and consider what steps have to be taken. we will then, of course, be ready to proceed with new initiatives. overall, as you know, we are dealing with inequality; it is a difficult issue. it was a priority of the uk presidency and has been taken over by the commission and the other presidencies as well. but we have to live within the realities – the existing legal and treaty realities of the european union, the issue of competences, how much the commission can oblige member states in certain areas of health. most is done through guidelines and recommendations. even under the proposed constitution as it stands, provision of health care remains the sole competence of the member states. so, we try to encourage, coordinate with and support the member states, and we will raise this issue with them whenever possible but, at the end of the day, this specific area of health care provision is the responsibility of the member states. that does not mean that we will not continue encouraging them to proceed, to follow the code that has been mentioned and to take other steps, but i believe that, through our health service initiatives (we will be presenting a proposal before the end of the year), we will be able to tackle some of these aspects and, of course, i will be happy to continue discussing these with you.
in writing. it is not easy to intervene in a debate on a disease that affects over 400,000 people in europe, with a new case every 4 hours. it is also not easy because ms, whose origins are still largely unknown, particularly affects young people, my peers, who, without warning, see their ambitions and dreams for the future and their daily life settings fall apart. but today there is a concrete and possible hope, linked to the great, encouraging, scientific research that day by day and laboriously takes new steps to identify the causes, mechanisms and remedies of the neurological collapse that is the consequence of multiple sclerosis. at this stage it is our main task to encourage, support and encourage research, including financial support, which must finally be free from conditions and from limitations and fears, often prejudiced and instrumental. at the same time, all the commitments made by the european commission in a 2003 resolution, in particular on the development of the 'code of best practice', must be respected. i also believe that it is the duty of the community institutions to promote and support the activities of all associations, such as aism in my country, which, with dedication and professionalism, carry out commendable work and provide effective help to people affected by multiple sclerosis and their families.
i take this opportunity to greet a large delegation of voters from salerno who are attending our proceedings at the invitation of mr andria.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would just like to remind the presidency of the need to raise one's voice to vindicate the merits of this unanimous parliament in regard to an event which finally took place yesterday, in harmony with the europe we all love, that of spinelli and others. we know that parliament unanimously fought for the abolition of the death penalty. yesterday, thanks to the unanimous vote of this parliament, as well as the italian parliament, the 27 member states unanimously decided that we are against the death penalty.
the intervention did not exactly concern a reference to the rules of procedure. however, we will certainly report this to the bureau.
member of the commission. mr president, i believe that this morning’s debate has shown that proper transposition and effective control of the implementation of community law are essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. i am personally pleased that the committee of inquiry went beyond the specifics of the equitable life case and took a broader look at how transposition and implementation checks are done more generally. the recommendations, based on real-life experience, are important to make sure that in the european union of 27 we keep sight of what is happening in reality, on the ground. your work is vital for our ongoing work on the application of community law, and the suggestions you make should be reflected in our forthcoming communication. your work is also crucial for the many victims who have seen their savings disappear. clearly, direct redress is a matter for the uk authorities and the uk judiciary. the uk parliamentary ombudsman’s report, due later this year, will address this issue. the commission cannot rule on this, but what is vital for us and for the internal market and consumer confidence, is that policyholders are treated equally, irrespective of their member state of residence. the commission also notes broader recommendations on redress; those that call for an answer at european level are being studied. good transposition starts with good legislation, but questionable compromises with texts in which everyone can read what they want is fruitful ground for poor implementation. this is a joint responsibility – all institutions bear responsibility for this. in concluding, may i congratulate the committee of inquiry and the rapporteur, mrs wallis, on a job well done. all parties received a fair hearing. we have learned important lessons and take this on board for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on a regulatory framework for measures to reconcile family life and studies for young women in the european union (2007/2276 (ini)) (a6-0209/2007) is on the agenda.
on behalf of the alde group. the problem raised by mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou in the report we are considering is of extraordinary social importance. i congratulate the rapporteur on her very comprehensive approach, which highlights the innumerable implications: the commission has also been active in the field of family and educational projects, denatality, housing policy for young couples, the objectives of the lisbon strategy and lifelong learning, starting with the affirmation of training as a human right and the need to invest in human resources as a tool to strengthen social inclusion. it is symptomatic that parliament is debating this report in the european year of equal opportunities. the need to reconcile family and professional life, although recognised by the european institutions and the commission, which has also taken it as a basic principle of its recent administrative reform, has so far not produced effective and concrete action, as might have been legitimately expected. these could have - and we hope will - led to a greater awareness on the part of the member states and thus to policies which are attentive and responsive to the needs of young women and young mothers, towards the achievement of equality which is not only proclaimed but actually promoted. among the instruments proposed by the rapporteur, as useful input for national decision-makers, i find particularly effective flexible study programmes, such as reduced hours, greater use of learning techniques resulting from new technologies, tax breaks for young working students, scholarships for students with dependent families, and access to nursery schools and after-school services. finally, i support the proposal to encourage the exchange of good practice in supporting students, looking at the successful experiences in some nordic countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe - especially southern europe - has suffered for years from a low birth rate, or even, as in the case of italy, from a negative birth rate. if the cradles of our cities remain empty for too long, the reasons are many and varied: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the ambitious and difficult objective is therefore not only to reconcile the right of young people to higher education and training with their aspiration to start a family and have children at an earlier stage in their lives, but also, as a reflection, to make the lisbon objectives compatible with the demographic renewal of our society. the member states have a duty to create an appropriate social, economic and educational framework, always keeping in mind the ultimate objective of promoting equal opportunities. for example, the recognition of paternity leave, which is becoming increasingly widespread in northern europe, is a valid way of meeting the just aspirations of young women. mr president, we all know that the fields of education and the family are the exclusive competence of the member states, but it is precisely for this reason that, in order to find a minimum common denominator between the states of the european union, i think the rapporteur's proposal to provide for the exchange of best practice within the framework of ministerial meetings is entirely acceptable. that is why my group is in favour of it.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of our group i propose that, while accepting the idea that there are also 'high standards of democracy', the phrase 'and free market principles' should be retained.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and her colleagues for the excellent work they have done and for the support they have given to my amendments in the committee on development. i shall dwell on a few points. the fight against aids, especially in the light of the latest un reports and the poor results achieved so far in the context of the millennium development goals, must continue to be a priority for the international community, an indispensable commitment and a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of the industrialized countries, because it is impossible to continue to talk about economic development, education and health infrastructure, if the working population capable of carrying out these reforms is being decimated day by day, despite the obviously still insufficient or not sufficiently effective supply of therapies and medicines. according to the unaids report, there were 4 to 6 million new cases in 2006, with 3 million deaths in the same year, two thirds of which occurred in sub-saharan africa, the region most affected by the millennium development goals. that's over 8,000 deaths a day, which is really unbearable. we are far from our timetable in this fight and in the fight against poverty in general, and we can no longer accept the apologies of those countries, including, unfortunately, my own, which have not yet fulfilled the already minimal commitments - it should be remembered - made at international level. we must also ask the governments of the donor countries not only to be more efficient in their development aid but also to be as consistent as possible with their trade policies, because supporting development means above all giving the countries in difficulty the chance to get back on their feet with their own resources. new challenges, new bets, new tests and new commitments are therefore on the horizon. the hope is that this time europe will be able to play its part.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the g8 has been a resounding failure in the fight against poverty and global warming. the tired ritual of a summit which is not only legitimate but also anti-historical, given the resistance to the inclusion of the new emerging countries, such as brazil, south africa, china and india, was reflected in the inconsistency of its final declarations. in 2005, in scotland, rich countries made a solemn commitment to increase official development assistance to $50 billion a year by 2010, half of which was to go to africa, in order to ensure the achievement of the millennium development goals set by the united nations by 2015. two years later, as the africa progress panel chaired by kofi annan has pointed out, actual appropriations represent only 10% of what was promised. as if nothing had happened, the g8 countries in rostock renewed their commitment to provide $60 billion in funding for the fight against aids, all in a very smokey and deliberately misleading way. the commission notes that the us authorities have not provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided any evidence that the us government has provided. the increase of 3 billion a year over the commitments already made by other governments, including those in europe, is not even enough to deal with the humanitarian emergency of aids and other pandemics. on the global warming front, a failure to act has been hailed as a success. the result of three days of meetings, costing €120 million, was the referral to the un of a possible agreement on limiting the quantities of carbon dioxide to be emitted into the atmosphere. no promise will be fulfilled without challenging the dominant economic and social models.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur, mrs glenys kinnock, for her report which, if it had been voted on in time, would have sent a clear message to the heads of state of the g8 and the entire international community that decisive action is needed to change the course of events. millions still die of hunger, thirst, disease, or war. it would be a great deal, if not enough, if the g8 countries and the international community would honour their commitments. however, if we do not act on the structural causes of poverty and underdevelopment, people will continue to die. commissioner michel is right about the need for concerted and coherent strategies on several fronts, such as the quantity and quality of official development aid, debt cancellation and the revision of international trade rules and, no doubt, also the assumption of responsibility, transparency and good governance by developing countries. i would like to stress a few points. as regards the quality of aid, it is necessary to put an end to the very harmful practice of aid linked to economic and geopolitical interests and to the inconsistency between the development, trade and agricultural policies of the european union. it is also necessary to rethink the epas and to seek alternative ways of achieving the mdgs, overcoming the deadlock in the doha round negotiations. the three health-related millennium development goals will never be achieved without universal access to health care and medicines. all too often international intellectual property law violates the priority of the right to health and life of millions of people over the profits of the pharmaceutical multinationals. the disappointing agreements reached at the g8 also highlight the contradictions of the world's big players, who spend 5% of their budget on weapons of destruction and death.
the agenda includes the report by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on specific problems relating to the transposition and application of public procurement legislation and its relationship with the lisbon agenda (2006/2084 (ini)) (a6-0226/2007).
thank you, mrs booth, you have increased the poetry rate of this house.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 20 june 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on derogations from the internal market rules for defence public procurement under article 296 of the ec treaty, by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0022/2007 b6-0122/2007).
i thank mr mccarthy. i wanted to remind you that rap music and the metric of the greek syllable endosymbol have the same rhythm. you and mr. booth are closer than you think.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the report by mr dimitrios papadimoulis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the prohibition of the export and safe storage of metallic mercury (com (2006) 0636 c6-0363/2006 2006/0206 cod)) (a6-0227/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the rapporteur and the many colleagues who have been involved as shadow rapporteurs for their efforts and work on this very complex subject. but i want to be clear that no one is unaware of complexity. the differences between the various types of funds are obvious: the allocation, capitalisation, defined contribution and defined benefit funds, funds which are in fact company funds and funds managed through the accumulation of the resources of the contributions in the company's balance sheets. it is therefore difficult to find solutions that do not take account of this extreme articulation. however, it is also true that we should all have been more consistent in this matter. i am referring in particular to the council, which in my view is becoming a swamp that absorbs and suffocates all the efforts made by parliament to make balanced and coherent progress on social matters. this is the case, for example, with the working time directive and the directives adopted by parliament on the regulation of temporary employment agencies. we have made some progress where possible, even if we have to accept the inevitable logic of compromise, if not the guillotine, but we have not made any progress towards transferability. once again the matter is postponed. at this point we hope that the timid but positive steps taken to ensure that certain preconditions regarding minimum thresholds are met will not be overturned either, such as the conditions for the maturation of pension rights for workers in the second pillar, the conditions for the refund of contributions paid for workers leaving before the conditions for the acquisition of rights have matured and the conditions for the treatment of workers leaving who leave their contributions in the fund, since there is essentially a delay in the performance of the benefits, but there are already acquired rights relating to the equity of the latter. on these points, in some cases the minimum thresholds identified in the report are still critical or are being questioned. in future, much more will have to be done to address these problems, including ensuring that workers involved in mobility processes can at least be assured that they will not be discriminated against or penalized. however, i believe that any solution that falls below the thresholds would be so bad that a traumatic solution would be preferred by a vote against it in parliament. we hope that at least the compromise reached within these thresholds can be maintained in the relationship with the council.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the right to free movement between the member states of the union in respect of supplementary pensions must not be restricted. neither the pension schemes of each state nor the conditions of acquisition may call into question the transferability of acquired rights. the european population is living longer on average and, as mrs oomen-ruijten rightly pointed out, supplementary pensions are becoming increasingly important throughout the union, particularly if we want to guarantee the living standards of the elderly population in the context of a european social model which, although it can be improved, remains a system that does not appear on any other continent. it is therefore essential to further improve the mechanisms for acquiring supplementary pensions and their transferability, without imagining anything less than what seems barely sufficient. in particular, it seems appropriate to extend the scope of application to all complementary collective schemes. i would personally have liked to see the principles of the report applied to invalidity and survivors' pensions. as regards the period of contribution required, i agree to the minimum period of five years for the right to acquire and to the other conditions laid down in the amendments governing that right. the conditions for the treatment of supplementary pension rights acquired by outgoing workers appear to be balanced, while i believe that further steps should be taken to improve the transferability of rights. in conclusion, we are living in a time when the states are trying to combine flexibility and labour mobility, which i think are excessive, with incentives to make social security more accessible. in this context, the concerns of young people about their future retirement and the very difficulty of maintaining a decent standard of living in old age should not only be repeatedly proclaimed but should be seriously addressed by the institutions, especially since it is shown that defined contribution pension schemes offer less guarantees of pensions commensurate with the cost of living. as the rapporteur and many colleagues have also said, labour mobility should be better rewarded, also and above all in terms of supplementary pension guarantees.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the money paid by workers for supplementary pensions is workers' money. the money paid by employers to their employees to make them better off in retirement is also workers' money. there should therefore be no problem in adopting a directive on the transferability of rights which are already workers' rights. mr mann, you say that this directive, as the commission has courageously put it, entails considerable costs for insurance funds and must therefore be rejected. i say that the higher the cost to pension funds, the greater the benefits to workers and the greater the number of workers who will join voluntary pension funds. in conclusion, i regret to say that once again the council is acting as a brake on the european union. since the agreement of all 27 eu member states is required, a negative vote in the council is sufficient to block a proposal. i wonder why we are still complaining that france and the netherlands voted against the constitution. we all want europe to move forward, but when it comes to actually meeting the expectations of the citizens towards us, we always take the worst position for the citizens and for the workers. it is clear that this is not the way forward.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the joint debate on: - the statements by the council and the commission on improving the method of consulting the european parliament in the procedures for enlargement of the euro area, - the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision pursuant to article 122 (2) of the ec treaty on the adoption by cyprus of the single currency on 1 january 2008 (com (2007) 0256 c6-0151/2007 2007/0090 (cod)) (a6-0244/2007) and - the report by werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision pursuant to article 122 (2) of the ec treaty on the adoption by malta of the single currency on 1 january 2008 (com (2007) 0259 c1506/2007 2007/0092 (cod)) (a6-0243/2007).
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr langen, for the excellent work he has done in the short time available. on 16 may the commission adopted the convergence report on the criteria for malta and cyprus to participate in the single currency, and on 25 may the european parliament was invited to give its opinion on the proposal for a council decision on the adoption of the single currency by cyprus and malta on 1 january 2008. the short time available did not allow parliament to make a thorough assessment of the situation in the countries and the reports proposed by the commission. i am, however, in favour of the adoption of the single currency by cyprus and malta, since the convergence criteria have been met. in malta, the inflation rate over the last 12 months was 2.2%, below the 3% reference value. the excessive deficit has been corrected by a sustained reduction in the budget deficit below the 3% of gdp threshold and the debt ratio is decreasing towards the 60% of gdp reference value. until march 2007, the average long-term interest rate in malta was 4,3%, below the reference value of 6,4%. the maltese economy is highly integrated into the european union and the current account deficit fell to 6,3% in 2006, also thanks to foreign direct investment. as regards cyprus, the inflation rate over the last 12 months has been 2%, i.e. below the 3% reference value. the commission services' forecast for 2007 issued in the spring of this year forecasts a deficit of 1.4% of gdp. since its entry into the european exchange rate mechanism erm ii, the cypriot pound has been trading at a satisfactory exchange rate on a stable basis. over the last 12 months, the average long-term interest rate has been 4,2%, below the reference value of 6,4%. the cypriot economy is closely integrated with that of the european union. the commission maintains that economic integration has been achieved, despite the increase in the current account deficit. in order to avoid further problems with procedural time limits in the future, the method of consulting the european parliament should be improved by creating interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the commission. this will allow sufficient time to properly assess the proposals of the commission and the european central bank. in this connection, i found the exchange of views with commissioner almunia and the reply of commission president barroso to the letter sent to him by president pöttering of parliament very positive. the commission should notify parliament well in advance of any requests for convergence reports from member states and decide together with parliament and the council on the timetable for the procedure.
mr president, rule 28 of our rules of procedure provides that questions relating to the work of the bureau shall be answered within 30 days of their being tabled. i have asked a question about the statements made by cardinal angelo scola in the presence of the president of our parliament on 28 march, some three months ago, when he said that it was not appropriate for the present european parliament to be constantly speaking on matters such as marriage, the family and life. in the face of such an attack on this parliament, i have decided to put the question in question and i believe it is important that the presidency of parliament should defend this house and its deliberations against the aggression of a foreign state such as vatican city.
mr president, i propose that the following text be added to the end of paragraph 9: 'deplores the fact that the italian government has not yet paid the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria the 260 million of which it is owed for the 2006-2007 quotas and calls on the italian government to pay this debt in a short time.'
mr president, i would like to say that i am prepared to accept mr cornillet's proposal.
mr president, i am pleased to take the floor to say to europe: "if you're in, you take a shot". europe must show more courage, it must have the heart of a lion and not be a sheep or a rabbit, as they say in italian. the directive on the transferability of pension rights is of great importance to all workers and citizens in europe. the adoption of the proposal does something for the workers, but it does not really achieve a result for which the european citizens can applaud europe. so, mr president, let us not complain that the constitution was rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands. europe must have more courage.
the agenda includes the statements by the council and the commission on a treaty on the arms trade.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to thank you very warmly, on behalf of the council presidency, for your contributions, your encouragement, but also for the initiatives taken so far on this very important subject and also for the admonitions expressed in some of your contributions. let me make two points. firstly, respect for human rights and international humanitarian law in the recipient countries must be in place in all cases before authorization can be granted. i made it clear that we are committed to human rights at various levels around the world. this has been a subject of discussion in this parliament on several occasions. the right to life, the prohibition of slavery, the right to political and social participation, equality before the law, freedom of speech and assembly and the prohibition of discrimination continue to be violated in too many countries of the world. it is therefore our duty to ensure that these violations of fundamental values are not encouraged by the supply of arms. secondly, there are the embargoes. the united nations security council, the oecd and the european union have imposed embargoes on a number of countries, and this draft european parliament resolution calls in particular for the embargo against sudan to be respected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the arms trade agreement is implemented. it is not by chance that this criterion is placed at the very beginning of the code of conduct of the european union. i can assure you that as your presidency, we will continue to work for an effective arms trade treaty. the central role played by the european parliament in this debate is also a great help and support. i hope that we can continue to do so in this cooperative way in the presidencies that follow.
member of the commission. mr president, i thank parliament for its support, for its initiative and for its motion for a resolution. as i mentioned before, the commission, as part of wider eu efforts, strongly supports the opening of negotiations on a legally binding arms trade treaty, within the un framework – this is important to highlight. an international instrument promoting high standards of responsibility is clearly desirable and, for this enterprise to be successful, we need to build the broadest possible consensus and encourage all states to support this initiative. we would wish it to be a legally binding, separate and self-standing initiative that would cover all conventional arms transfers, set out the principles defining illegal transfers, include monitoring and be broadly based. we know that it will not be easy to persuade all suppliers worldwide, and it will therefore be very important for all the major arms producers to avoid having a situation such as we had with the icc or with the mine ban treaty. we will, therefore, seek the broadest possible consensus.
i have received a motion for a resolution. the minutes have been tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 21 june 2007.
the agenda includes the report by rodi kratsa-tsagaropoulou, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on meda and financial support for palestine evaluation, implementation and control (2006/2128 (ini)) (a6-0210/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs batzeli for the work she has done and the commission for the proposal we have received. i believe that in the face of a phenomenon which is spreading throughout the world and which, at european level too, is taking on serious forms, both in terms of the quality of juvenile crime and in terms of its numbers, it is right to ask what we can do. the idea of establishing minimum standards suitable for all the countries of the union and the dissemination of good practice is certainly a useful policy in the face of a widespread problem. i therefore share the view that the commission should take up this matter. as regards the content, i think it is important to emphasize a few points. the first point is that we must keep on telling ourselves and everyone that the newborns are a value for the whole community and represent our future. it is therefore in the general interest that children, from birth, should be given the conditions to have everything they need to become citizens of this european union, namely policies to support the child's growth in the family, in school and in work, the fight against poverty, policies for the home and for work, services to people, strict respect for the right and duty to education and cultural training up to employment, the fight against the spread of violence and zero tolerance for the exploitation and violence of children, even if this occurs in the family. we need to be sure of our rights, but also of our duties and our penalties.
i would like to thank mrs roure for the tenacious work she has done in drawing up this framework decision together with the council. it's taken us a long time, but we can finally say that we've reached a landing place. we must certainly combat racism and xenophobia with legislative instruments, but i believe that we must above all take major cultural action. i believe that this parliament also has the means to initiate a strong information campaign in the member states, so that this framework decision can be structured as a great cultural battle of ideas. i believe that we must fight against racism and xenophobia, because the data provided by the european observatory are disturbing. we are seeing an increase in racism and xenophobia, and i believe that we must fight against those who often try to incite racial and religious hatred. this is done mainly by using the media, which all too often manage to convey messages that are very dangerous for the community. i believe that the initiative adopted by the council, and above all the work done by mrs roure in this parliament, must be an important instrument for political initiative and for continuing this work. as commissioner frattini has said, it is necessary to establish the limit within which there is a balance between freedom of expression and the fight against racism and xenophobia. i think this is important and that strong political action and important cultural action is needed.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i commend the rapporteur's intention to produce an excellent report on the rationalization and efficiency of asylum procedures. however, there is still work to be done in this direction, including the correction of the legal and practical interpretation of this institution which, precisely because it is so important from the humanitarian point of view, must not be abused or confused with other areas and concerns, such as economic immigration, which have nothing to do with the sacred principle of the right of asylum. moreover, it is not acceptable, for reasons of civility, that an institution of this importance should be used by criminal organizations, as has recently been demonstrated by the very important success of an investigation carried out by our law enforcement agencies in italy, which severed an extremely dangerous link which was active in various criminal sectors and used the very instrument of asylum practices to recruit operative staff in crime. i am sure that the commission is aware of these concerns, which we must not tire of stressing, precisely in order to protect this important institution. i also point out the need to create areas for the collection of asylum seekers in safe third countries outside the european union, since while the landings continue, the criminal organizations continue to attack and above all this drama of human trafficking continues, with the consequences we all see. the european union must also be vigilant in order to avoid granting asylum to members of fundamentalist islamist organisations. this is actually happening and often it is expanding the al queda nebula and its presence in europe. i do not agree with the suggestion that the court of justice should be given wider powers in the area of asylum, effectively removing them from the jurisdiction of the member states. in particular, i call on the council to restore to the court of justice all its preliminary ruling powers.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. however, there is a great hypocrisy in our debate, because only two days ago this parliament decided to drop the question of iraqi refugees from the agenda. this is a very important issue, since we are talking about over four million people fleeing an illegal and shameful war. we should instead discuss this and the difficulty of the european union in receiving these refugees, most of whom are being taken in from outside the european union, and think about how often refugees are being taken in from our territory. a delegation from the european parliament recently visited samo and found that inside the temporary accommodation centre on the island - a terrifying place - there were asylum seekers from iraq, palestine, lebanon and afghanistan, all from war zones. i therefore believe that we should ask ourselves for a long time whether we need to ensure that the right of asylum is respected, avoiding what has unfortunately often happened in europe in recent years, namely collective expulsions and the failure to guarantee the right not to be rejected. we have seen too many times an emblematic case, namely that in recent years the pressure to migrate has increased and the number of asylum applications in europe has decreased. i think that this is indicative of a problem we have in the european union.
i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the national assembly of the republic of korea is in the gallery. i warmly welcome the korean delegation here to participate in the 10th european parliament-korea interparliamentary meeting. mr lee sang-deuk is the head of the korean delegation, which comprises six members of the national assembly. in recent years, our dialogue has become more in-depth and regular. it has now become entirely political and covers a wide range of issues ranging from regional and international security to the daily concerns of citizens, alongside the increasingly active role of the european union and south korea in the international community. we are very happy about this fruitful and stable cooperation with the republic of korea, which is constantly growing in depth.
the debate on the report by zuzana roithová on consumer confidence in the digital environment continues.
member of the commission. mr president, we have heard some well-informed and very substantive contributions to this debate. i appreciate them and thank those who have taken the trouble to speak. the importance of building trust and confidence should not be underestimated and i am very grateful for all the remarks to that effect. the digital environment is, in many ways, still new to many citizens. we need to continue efforts to create the necessary conditions for well-functioning markets and we need a simple and coherent legal framework, as well as the effective application of rules. the current review of consumer protection legislation should result in a single straightforward set of consumer protection rules, which will benefit consumers and businesses alike. we are at the beginning of this process and i will need your support and cooperation to make it a success. that is why i am very grateful to those of you who have already given such a boost to our joint efforts in this area. the rapid development of new technologies also renders consumer relationships with product and service providers in the digital environment much more complex. we need to empower consumers. only empowered consumers will be able to make real choices based on accurate information and be confident that they are effectively protected by solid rights. finally, we have to ensure effective application of the rules and place a strong emphasis on enforcement. consumers can be confident only when they are able to effectively exercise their rights, when rogue traders are truly excluded from the markets and all those involved contribute to the application of consumer protection laws. i think we agree on these elements, which are also stressed in your motion for a resolution. we will now carefully consider parliament’s other recommendations and suggestions. however, as guardian of the treaties, the commission will do so by respecting the existing framework. i would like to thank you for the progress made towards enhancing consumer confidence in the digital environment. we need your input and continued cooperation to make the right choices on this ambitious journey. i am very glad that we have made progress today and look forward to continuing and firm cooperation with parliament. i listened carefully to all the remarks on strengthening the nature of this document, namely on having a charter, and i have already had thoughtful discussions with mrs roithová and many of you. we will continue to work on this area and to cooperate, and i believe that, after the necessary revision, especially in mrs reding’s area of responsibility, and in relation to consumer legislation, we will come up with a positive solution.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
to sum up for the benefit of all colleagues, an oral amendment to paragraph 38 has been tabled by mr casaca, which already in the original version and with the addition of the rapporteur provides for three words to be added at the end 'via, especially, the tim' to the text which you find attached to your voting lists. are there any objections to the oral amendment in its entirety? there are no objections. the rapporteur, quite exceptionally, asks to speak again.
- the second oral amendment was tabled at the same time, concerning the deletion of recital n. it will be a later vote, but the two amendments are linked. (the oral amendments were accepted)
i too join in congratulating mr fruteau and we shall proceed with the agenda.
mr president, i would point out that there is a mistake in the italian translation, which we consider to be substantial and not marginal, where it says 'invites the regional authorities to set up special administrative courts'. this is a reality that we had in the time of fascism and that can no longer be restored. i therefore ask that the word 'commissions' be written as it is in the english and french texts. i would also suggest that the arbitration powers attached to the courts should also be revised and replaced by 'decision powers'.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
thank you, your honor. i think the answer to the question was precisely to save time. however, i will of course report back and check with the bureau and the president what action is to be taken on your request.
that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for once i do not agree with mr romeva i rueda, because i believe that there is an urgent matter concerning cuba, and that it is also a matter concerning ourselves, the european union, because otherwise it would be useless to treat as urgent matters the problems of dictatorial and undemocratic countries that have been in power for decades. in this case, the urgency is about us and our policy. a decision has been taken in the council to invite a cuban delegation. what can and should this opening up of dialogue mean? in our view, this must mean that any change, reform or step towards strengthening relations with cuba must be accompanied by an equally concrete plan for reforming the human rights and democratic situation on the island. it is true that our strategy as the european union is not that of the embargo - and i shall propose to clarify and reiterate this in an oral amendment - but it is also true that it must not and cannot be a strategy of unconditional and unilateral opening up, because this too would prove to be a failed strategy, as it has been in the past. we must, for example, give concrete support - and this is an urgent matter which concerns the european union much more than cuba - to those dissidents who have united under the banner of unidad por la libertad. one of the problems of the cuban dissident and opposition has always been the division within them, whereas this time there is a manifesto and a joint document that speaks of non-use of force and democracy. our job is to support these dissidents. the opening of discussion and dialogue must take this into account, otherwise it would be contrary to the policies and principles of this union on human rights and democracy.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in iraq. the technology of this house has also been affected by the lapse. in fact, that is what we should have been discussing, namely the four million iraqis who are trying to get to europe and whom we are not giving a welcome. we are discussing cuba instead, because there is an international campaign going on which led this parliament to vote against venezuela in the last session and which will probably lead it to vote against cuba today. we are waiting for someone from the spanish people's party to take up some resolution against ecuador and bolivia. we're waiting for this action. in fact, the real objective is to counter the economic policy that a large part of latin america is currently implementing, in contrast to neoliberalism and the imperial logic of permanent war. that is an objective fact of our discussion. i think we must instead call for a review of the european union's common position and a review of the embargo. what the council did last monday, inviting a delegation of the cuban authorities to brussels, was a very important step which we should have taken to open a positive dialogue and to make a positive contribution to the progress made by cuba. i think that what is said in this resolution, starting with article 1, expresses the will of a part of this parliament. it is a question of changing the economic, social and political system of an island and a sovereign country. i think that is unacceptable.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to point out to the commissioner a contradiction in which we are in danger of falling. in 2005, it was we, as the european union, who encouraged everyone in ethiopia, including the oromo representatives, to participate in the elections to contribute to democratization. we also sent one of the most important observation missions to the country. today our colleagues elected to the ethiopian federal parliament and the oromia parliament, who had the courage to come out in the open, are forced to leave their country. they have appealed to us, since some of them have been killed for political reasons, while others are fleeing to neighbouring somalia with thousands of oromo refugees and are being persecuted by ethiopian troops. at this point i believe that, having helped to encourage and initiate this process, we cannot abandon these people and we must assume the responsibility of immediately adopting a support strategy under the special measures provided for in the new instrument for democracy and human rights.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission remains worried about the situation in myanmar/burma. the biggest worries concern the deep social and ethnic fault lines which divide the country and which result in human insecurity, widespread poverty and lack of progress in economic and social development. it is obvious, that in a climate of human insecurity and ongoing armed conflict in a few border areas, there is little space for respect for human rights. the authorities of myanmar/burma are confronted with a number of challenges, like establishing national unity and political stability, and – most importantly – advancing the development level of their country which remains one of the poorest in the world. for the international community, helping the transition of myanmar/burma towards a more open and more developed society – led by a legitimate and civilian government – should remain the paramount goal. the military leadership’s erratic governance continues, in economic terms and in the political sphere. the military continues to employ practices of forced labour, while civil society faces repression, uncertainty and operational difficulties. the ‘88 students’ – the then leaders of the 1988 uprising – continue to exploit the minimal space for civil society as much as they can, while the national league for democracy is marginalised and while the unjustifiable detention of mrs aung san suu kyi continues. transition is hard to imagine with more than one thousand political detainees, among whom mrs aung san suu kyi sticks out as the icon of peace and reconciliation. such transition is equally inconceivable without a genuine dialogue with the various ethnic groups, including those continuing their armed battle. the commission supports the work of professor paolo sergio pinheiro, the un’s special rapporteur on human rights in myanmar. he said, in his last statement, that ‘grave human rights violations are indulged not only with impunity but authorised by the sanction of laws’. the commission also welcomes the appointment by the un secretary-general of professor ibrahim gambari as special envoy for myanmar, and expects that the government will extend its full cooperation to him, in order to allow the good offices of the un secretary general to continue. regarding the forthcoming session of the national convention, we call on the government to listen to the voices of ethnic groups and political stakeholders in opposition. we note progress in the working conditions of the local international labour organisation office, which will hopefully improve the situation of victims of forced labour practices filing a complaint. but we deplore the deteriorating working conditions for the international committee of the red cross (icrc) and call on the government to allow the icrc to resume its humanitarian mission. among most observers, there is a growing consensus that more needs to be done about the political and socioeconomic situation. the european union, in its common position, has mandated the commission to engage the government in a dialogue over its responsibilities to achieve the millennium development goals. the eu has, therefore, been looking for effective policies which may help the people of myanmar/burma and which may help to bring them back into the international community. the three diseases fund, supported by the eu and its partners, is an example of this policy. our approach focuses on the most basic and immediate human security needs of the population, and it clearly recognises the limits which exist for all external actors. however, withholding aid and contributing to more isolation would only make the population pay the price, that is, the people of myanmar/burma who are already suffering. we simply do not believe that through increased sanctions the suffering of the people can be relieved. moreover, such an approach would not help influence the military leaders. the commission is fully committed to stepping up its programmes in myanmar/burma, in quantitative and qualitative terms, with a view to contributing effectively to development and reconciliation.
madam president, i have two oral amendments. one is to insert a recital ia as follows: ‘regretting the united nations human rights council decision to discontinue moratorium human rights abuses in cuba’.
madam president, i should like to add the following new paragraph after paragraph 15: ‘condemns any policy of sexual discrimination and repression, such as the one until now effective in cuba, and welcomes the educational campaigns on sexual discrimination that are currently implemented by the national centre for sex education of cuba’.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the almost maniacal attitude of the social democratic president against the polish government - the expression of the polish people - is likely to cloud this day of joy, in which the goodwill of all of us has brought us to an agreement, i thank above all chancellor merkel for her efforts, and we would like to thank her sincerely and wholeheartedly. we thank the president for having set our institutions back in motion and we also appreciate the mediation of president sarkozy in these last days. as a former member of the european convention, i would like to stress a number of points which remain negative for us: the reduction in the composition of the commission, the fact that the charter of rights deprives certain fundamental rights for the family and the child, the lack of references to our roots and the omission of the symbols that have identified the union up to now: the flag, the anthem and the motto have symbolic value for our fellow citizens, and it is dangerous to erase them in an era of great immigration and loss of reference values. the union is not and should not be a state, it is a community of states, which requires a visual symbol to represent it. if we separate social policy from trade and monetary policy, we risk a europe which, under the old treaties, is concerned with windscreen wipers but is incapable of playing a decisive role in creating widespread prosperity at home and abroad. the increase in the power of the european parliament is a positive development. it must be able to re-create in citizens and political forces the capacity to defend national and territorial traditions by combining them with the wider western culture. cooperation in the field of justice and criminal law must lead to the harmonization of trial times and the abolition of reductions in sentences for serious and security-related offences. we need immigration policy now! the mediterranean countries of the union can no longer be left alone! we therefore welcome the strengthening of frontex. strengthening relations between the union and africa means defeating poverty, terrorist organizations, the increasingly worrying synergy between the islamic radicalism of iran and hezbollah, which threaten both moderate and secular islam and the west. we therefore thank you, madam president, for your efforts and we would like to renew our invitation to you: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have just put the vote on parliament's opinion on the intergovernmental conference on wednesday's agenda. i would simply like to draw the attention of my colleagues, in view of the meeting this evening of the committee on constitutional affairs, to the fact that in the past the mandatory nature of the european parliament's opinion - even though it was not our binding opinion - had been used, for example by altiero spinelli, to influence decisions to reform these treaties. the fact that we have chosen instead the times and procedures - i am permitted to do so - with almost military rhythms, so that the committee is discussing and voting immediately this evening and parliament is then taking its decision on wednesday, is tantamount to renouncing that power of influence which we could and could have exercised in our assembly, for example, with regard to those who even want to remove the symbols of this europe from the treaties. i hope that some of the members present will be able to raise this possibility in the committee on constitutional affairs.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to extend my sincere congratulations to mr ferber on his work. i believe that other committed colleagues have been involved in this work and i do not think that it was a "duel at dawn behind the convent" between mr ferber and mr simpson, however delicate and complicated it may have been. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already said that it is not in the interests of the market but in the interests of consumers. the market can only be an instrument for achieving and ensuring this objective in the best possible way by reducing the cost of quality services. i too believe that the old monopoly system was not adequate to meet the challenges: but it would be risky to imagine that the only answer in these cases is to open up the market to competition. this is a step which, although useful, fundamental and important, is not sufficient. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are several options, all geared to the need - given the diversity of markets - to find a way of competing at net costs for a service which will never be provided in many situations, except by a market operation. to this end, as has been mentioned, fair competition is crucial. i do not share the suspicion of licensing dynamics, which are regarded as almost an inappropriate guillotine to prevent or stifle competition. they can be very useful tools in guaranteeing the qualification of undertakings and ensuring that competition takes place freely but within a framework of rules which, while respecting social security rules, professional qualifications, the definition of substitute services and requirements in the general interest, can be applied in a transparent manner to all operators in the sector. this too will be a means of preventing those who are burdened with the burden of universal service from entering the ring of competition with their hands tied behind their backs.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive amending the directive on the full completion of the internal market for postal services, put forward by mr ferber, has found broad convergence, as is shown by the reception in committee and also by the compromises reached by the groups on this subject. as i have already said on other occasions, i am not a convinced supporter of liberalism, quite the contrary. the commission has also been very active in the field of the environment, and has been very active in the field of the environment. in fact, in italy - and i challenge my italian liberal colleagues to prove otherwise - the liberalization of the various sectors, from insurance to energy, railways and the postal service itself, has resulted in higher costs and greater difficulties in the use of services. so much so that in italy, despite being of a certain marxist tradition, people become advocates of liberalization and become ministers, not just communists, but communists who, in order to meet the market, become ministers, after having, far from being committed and making a profitable contribution, sat in the aisles. and so from communist ministers we agitate to strike at the various categories, from lawyers to notaries, taxi drivers, to reach the bakers, to assert the rightness of consumption and competition. so a nationalist-popularist like myself has, in addition to the ideological conviction, also the concrete proof that the free market does not cure all ills at all, but often fuels them. however, in the hope that in my country at least greater competition in the postal sector - another public sector which, partially privatised, has only seen an increase in costs compared to a service of no european standard - will finally lead to an improvement in service, i intend to support the ferber report. i cannot help but acknowledge that in italy the service provided by private companies in the shipping sector is often excellent and seems to have created more jobs than were lost in the public service. i cannot ignore the fact that while large commercial customers do not need special protection for non-services, the opposite is true of small customers for universal service. it is right and essential that universal service be guaranteed at least five days a week in all the member states, just as, i wonder, who could oppose the wish for better timeliness, regularity and reliability of the postal service or a fair system of reimbursement or compensation so often invoked in the ferber report? the matter is complex and, as usual, time is too short to analyse all the aspects, positive or negative, of the relationship. i hope that from january 2011 the non-maintenance of exclusive rights for the provision of postal services will result in a generalized advantage for everyone. it would also be the first time that i would be forced to reconsider the positive aspects of liberalization.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a postal directive is a further step towards a very important objective: the completion of the internal market in postal services, since services of general economic interest play a key role in the context of the various countries, both in terms of economic development and social cohesion. it is therefore essential that, in the face of a full opening up of the market, the sustainability of the universal postal service be ensured by appropriate measures for its financing. however, some critical issues still remain to be resolved. i will mention only two: firstly, it is important to define more clearly the criteria for the authorisation of operators who intend to provide both universal and non-universal postal services. this is to ensure that all actors in the field have equal conditions of competition and equal obligations, both in the provision of the service and in their contribution to the financing. in this respect, the original commission text seems clearer than the text proposed by amendment no 44, which excludes the various postal operators and designated suppliers from the conditions for the granting of authorizations. a second aspect concerns the regulation of access to the postal network. in general, the general principles of transparency and non-discrimination being observed, there is no need for additional regulation. some member states have already defined access criteria based on the needs and characteristics of their national postal markets: the regulation of access cannot be defined in a general way but depends on the situation of each individual national market.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 july 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by jacek protasiewicz, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century' (2007/2023 (ini)) (a6-0247/2007)
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the green paper has created a good opportunity to discuss the need to improve labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it has generated a huge amount of reactions from a wide range of stakeholders. these responses contain useful information on national legal systems and on the new challenges of the european labour market brought about by increased cross-border mobility and the wider scope of international business activities across the eu. the quality of the response to the green paper was astonishing. i believe it is the result of consultations and discussions between governments and some national parliaments, as well as the social partners and other stakeholders at both eu and national level. some of the issues raised during these public consultations have already been the subject of european parliament debates and resolutions. i congratulate the rapporteur, the political groups and the members of the european parliament for their contribution in the form of this own-initiative report. the report seeks to identify how the debate launched in the context of the green paper can be put into practice in the form of concrete measures that would gain wider support. in doing so, it fully recognises the competence of the member states in the field of labour law and their labour relations and the traditions and practices of collective bargaining. the debate highlighted the importance of labour law as a tool for addressing labour management issues in a rapidly changing world with high capital and technology mobility. labour law and collective bargaining are closely interlinked. labour law is the basis on which the social partners at all levels can negotiate compromise agreements on employment, lifelong learning opportunities, flexible working time arrangements and the organisation of labour markets, which would allow for easy transitions between jobs and from one type of contract to another. it is perhaps no surprise that the reactions of the social partners to the green paper also showed sharply contrasting views on how to proceed. sharp disagreements emerged in parliament's debate on this report, as well as in parallel debates at eu and national level, on the following points: the status of the standard contract for an indefinite period of full-time employment compared to new flexible forms of work and the emphasis on measures addressing labour market segmentation; the approach to be taken to non-standard employment contracts, some of which lack adequate guarantees of employment security; the cases are mainly those of multilateral employment relationships; very often flexibility is required without adequate employment protection and without a real chance of achieving genuine security in a more stable employment relationship; the focus of the green paper on individual employment relations raised doubts as to whether sufficient attention had been paid to the collective dimension of labour law and the contribution of social dialogue; it was argued that the commission should have confined this debate to the social partners at eu level and not opened it to a public debate involving eu institutions, member state governments and social partners at both eu and national level; there were also objections to the contribution that the eu can make to supporting labour law reform and the development of minimum social standards applicable to all forms of employment contracts. i believe that the report in principle supports: the view of flexibility and security as two mutually reinforcing factors contributing to productivity and quality of jobs; adopting a life-cycle approach to the development of employment security; providing basic protection to all workers, regardless of the type of contract they have signed; helping workers to change jobs quickly and sustainably; ensuring that efforts to modernise labour law are consistent with the improvement of legislation approach and with the reduction of excessive administrative burdens, in particular as regards compliance with legal requirements for small enterprises; proper enforcement of eu labour legislation and raising awareness among employers and workers of the minimum eu rules in force, in particular to combat undeclared work. we consider the principles of non-discrimination, equality between women and men, flexibility of working hours to reconcile work and family life, and opportunities for education and retraining to be the basic pillars of employment security, necessary for a smooth transition from one job to another and from one type of employment contract to another. the report recognises the difficulty of distinguishing between the categories of workers and self-employed today. there is concern that increased crossborder mobility may affect the consistent application of the community acquis. i agree with the positive interest of parliament in finding ways of tackling this problem, while respecting the right of member states to determine whether it is an employment relationship. i believe that the report also rightly emphasises the usefulness of the dialogue between the international labour organisation and the eu in this regard. we need to draw on the expertise of the ilo and learn from its efforts to establish basic labour standards in which flexibility and security can be successfully combined. the commission has the task of trying to assess the main themes and alternatives of this policy, which have emerged in a number of the replies received. this includes those recently presented in the european parliament's own-initiative report. ladies and gentlemen, i look forward to a debate on this highly sensitive and complex subject and hope that this debate will provide further impetus and result in the successful adoption of the report presented.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is proving itself. the work done so far in the committee on employment and the economic and social committee has been of a good standard. it has broken out of the narrow band of ideological clashes and oppositions and has brought attention back to the real purpose of the green paper on employment policies and to the real possibility of designing innovation. globalization and demography are just two of the major challenges. sustainable development also requires changes in the organisation of work and the use of time. the most careful reflection shows that there is no such thing as time away from work, but time for personal life as well as family life; that it is wrong to identify the new frontier of social conflict between insider and outsider; that the relationship between flexibility and safety is ambiguous and involves the needs of employers and the needs of the people who work; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in congratulating myself on the work done, not only by the rapporteur but, i believe, by all the groups as a whole, which produced the text in question, voted by the committee on employment, i would like to try to clarify a point. i do not think that the text we have voted for is dominated by conservative and disappointing reflections. i believe that this text will help to break down all ideological resistance and barriers to the forms of flexibility in the employment relationship which today often not only exist but are a necessity in order to enable the european business system to respond to the competitive challenges which are posed to it in a more global sense. however, to protect these requirements, it is necessary to ensure that these forms of contract are genuinely concluded. a more flexible contract which is part-time, fixed-term, with temporary employment agencies responds to a need for flexibility in responding just in time to spikes in demand and production supply requirements, which exist in the competition of the labour market. it cannot be the wrong instrument for introducing forms of discrimination on the basis of costs and protections, which would turn the flexible contract into a kind of raft or shortcut for social dumping which has nothing to do with the requirements of competitiveness and which turns the challenge to competition into a challenge to cost competition only. i therefore believe that, while we affirm the need to accept the existence of these forms of contract and not to oppose them from an ideological point of view, we must also raise the level of specific protection and guarantee associated with these forms of flexible work. the rest is as follows: the primacy of collective regulation over individual derogations; the fact that there are european powers which respect national prerogatives in social matters and that there is a community dimension, in subsidiarity, of specific regulatory powers, for the guarantee of minimum standards, which give a connotation to the european dimension, not reducing it to being crushed on the market; the fight against undeclared work and the rejection of the logic of exchange. the problem is to ensure these objectives in a balanced way and certainly not to confuse protections such as, for example, protection in the company with that of the labour market. we must also strengthen all those measures which promote virtuous forms of mobility and transition and which are not linked, once again, to the contradiction on social protection.
the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in the debate on the future of the union. and certainly in this guilty and deliberate underestimation there are many of the reasons and problems of europe, a europe in which precariousness is widespread and hinders social cohesion, representing a real drama, the main social drama experienced by whole generations of young people but also of mature workers, who are prematurely expelled. and all of this is reflected in our cities, in our families, in all of us. the fight against precariousness is essential to build a future, to give certainty and hope. that's our main job. instead of fighting precariousness, the commission seems to take it upon itself and almost use it to reduce individual and collective rights, to reduce the role of the trade unions even further and to contrast those who have rights - which are actually decreasing - with those who do not, in the name of an alleged employment policy. this is not acceptable. what must be said is that europe considers work to be the basis of its democracy and social cohesion and that europe has its own idea of what normal work is: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals which have been put forward by the rapporteur. this idea of work is a healthy idea, which is also good for production, because it says that competition is not about exploitation but about quality and innovation. saving on labour and putting workers in competition with each other guarantees easy and short-term gains but it does not grow the economy or society. it is this social model that europe must present to the world, by proposing itself as a model. the right to work is a fundamental part of democracy, because it sets the rules for the activity that is the basis of society and around the rights the social unity of young and old people must be built, and not in absurd oppositions. the employment contract must contain these rules and rights, which cannot be delegated to others or substituted by external intervention, leaving the employment contract at the mercy of the law of the strongest. that is why we are not convinced by the idea of "flexicurity", weak contracts substituted by social guarantees: no, the guarantees must be in the contract and serve as protection for the worker, a european citizen. the text that comes to the house is a compromise, with points of ambiguity but with important elements. attacks on this work, such as those contained in certain amendments, would be negative and would cause us to take a serious step backwards. i say this in particular to my socialist colleagues, and particularly on the subject of those amendments which distort the nature of normal work. we would regard the adoption of these amendments as a breach of the compromise reached in the committee.
the vote will take place at the end of the debate. it will be resumed at 3:00.
the agenda will be followed by a debate on the report by mr jacek protasiewicz on 'modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the need to modernise labour law in the face of the innovations of the 21st century poses real and demanding challenges to the current labour market, particularly for all those who are looking for new employment, quality work, work that is in harmony with other aspects of personal life. combining the flexibility of work - a characteristic of a competitive and global market - with the security of the job - a right/duty for every european citizen - requires, as envisaged by the lisbon strategy, making professional skills and abilities expendable. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: there is an educational and training emergency in european society which prevents or slows down the maturation of skills and knowledge. for the european union, investment in human capital and training of young people is the best and most modern way of asserting the right to work. the green paper raises this challenge among others. i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done to harmonize the various points of view which have been raised in the debate.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that parliament has taken a comprehensive view of the system of european seas, oceans, coastal areas and islands. this is an extraordinary wealth for europe, which has some 68 000 km of coastline, twice as much as the united states and three times as much as russia. a dimension and issues that have been overlooked in the past. the green paper is a turning point in the construction of a new maritime policy based on this enormous heritage, which has unique and unexplored potential. the piecyk report, for which i congratulate my colleague, makes an important contribution in this respect: i particularly agree with the emphasis on environmental aspects. coastal areas are particularly vulnerable, where the effects of climate change and intensive resource exploitation are most evident. in the face of this emergency, we must adopt a protective and respectful attitude so that the sea can continue to be a resource for the people living in coastal areas. the piecyk report, in my view, must be accompanied by further proposals, in the form of amendments, which clarify the scope of this important initiative. firstly, a european maritime policy should be endowed with the appropriate resources, as should any other policy. the negotiations on the next financial framework must therefore take account of the objectives identified in the green paper on the sea. similarly, the commissioner for maritime affairs should remain as such and his portfolio should not be limited to fisheries issues alone. finally, special attention should be paid to islands, which, because of their attractiveness and natural characteristics, constitute a valuable resource in terms of sustainability and competitiveness for european maritime policy.
the agenda includes the report by michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the implementation of the first railway package (2006/2213 (ini)) (a6-0219/2007)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 july 2007.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 july 2007.
the agenda includes the report by etelka barsi-pataky, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on 'for a europe on the move - sustainable mobility for our continent' (2006/2227 (ini)) (a6-0190/2007)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, we are now looking at an excellent report which enables parliament to understand, support and align itself with the work which the committee will have to carry out in this last phase of its work. the barsi-pataky report covers all the problems we have faced in recent years and thus makes a strategic contribution to our policy. i had the misfortune, so to speak, of arriving just a moment before the obvious shift in priorities that has taken place in recent weeks, with the prospective inclusion of the fight against climate change in the union's activities and a direct take up of the issue of energy costs. i think that this requires us to re-examine everything in the light of the new priorities, legitimizing or making clearer the set of policies that we should implement to ensure that transport also contributes to the achievement of these two objectives. this means working to use other fuels or the same fuels with more efficient engines, trying to organise more efficient journeys through logistics but also and above all giving back criteria and logic to the need to insist on better exploitation of the most energy- and climate-efficient modes of transport and also in organising our lives in such a way as to reduce our unnecessary demand for mobility. this only underlines once again the historical strategies which, in the end, do justice to european transport policy. interoperability, market access and network integration are coming back with a vengeance, albeit with two qualifications: time and money. time is getting more urgent: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the other problem is that of funding. the intermediation of the union in relation to investment by states needs to be reconsidered in the medium term: i am not just referring to infrastructure financing, which is certainly the most important, but also to interoperability or other measures to facilitate access to markets. this is funding which not only needs to be obtained at european level but which requires that the commission be able to coordinate the policies and funding of all the member states in order to ensure that the results we need are achieved quickly.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the title of the report is very good: 'for a mobile europe' 'sustainable mobility for our continent'. the clearest statement in mrs barsi-pataky's report is in paragraph 14: it is a fact that the mid-term review of the 2001 commission white paper does not contain any long-term objectives and answers. the eu's transport policy is full of contradictions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the report clearly states that the negative effects of climate change have increased, not least because of wrong transport policies. many still believe in eternal growth: ever faster, ever higher, ever further. it's also sustainable, but it's negatively sustainable. this will not achieve the kyoto targets, and the intention to halve co2 emissions by 2050 remains an illusion. often, only symptoms are cured, but the causes of the ailment are not eliminated. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the courage to insist on full cost-truth is lacking. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's railways are not affected by the consequences of the accident. air transport is being excluded from the co2 calculation and transport across europe is being promoted. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the railways, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the economic viability of the bbt is more than questionable after the experience of the euro-tunnel under the english channel. the financing by the member states, which are already in breach of the maastricht criteria, is on very shaky footing. some of the access routes are not even planned. it would really be a cathedral in the desert! there is talk of moving freight to rail, but a high-speed railway for passengers is planned. the objectives of a socially and environmentally sound transport policy must be: reducing unnecessary traffic flows, shifting to more environmentally friendly modes of transport, cost-effectiveness, i.e. the allocation of all costs of construction, maintenance, repair of damage to the environment and health or of accidents to transport prices, and a sustainable taxation of transport based on co2 emissions, including and especially in air transport.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 july 2007.
the agenda includes the debate on the oral question to the commission on eu-china bilateral trade relations (by helmuth markov, on behalf of the committee on international trade) (o-0032/2007 - b6-0129/2007)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the european commission has started negotiations with china for a new partnership and cooperation agreement, the committee on international trade in parliament feels it is necessary to draw the attention of the community executive to certain well-known issues which characterize relations with the asian giant. china has the right to economic growth and development, and that means the well-being of its citizens, which is also an opportunity for the world economy. but this must not be at the expense of respect for the rules of international trade, of what has been agreed in the legitimate places and of what china has accepted when it joined the wto, otherwise the repercussions on the economic partners, starting with europe, could be catastrophic, even for chinese citizens themselves. the negotiations with china are the most appropriate opportunity to deal with these issues at bilateral level. the lack of adequate protection of human rights and of environmental, social and safety standards must be addressed. no one is asking for our standards but for progressively more acceptable standards to be acquired. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the european union's financial interests against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. the chinese government must do its part and show political will and enforcement efficiency to counter a phenomenon that worries many businesses and above all consumers around the world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not adulterated. this fight against counterfeiting and forgery must involve the european authorities and the chinese government. on these three points we expect the commission, in the course of the negotiations which parliament will follow with the greatest attention, to adopt a firm stance leading to clear and unequivocal results for our businessmen, our consumers and also for the chinese people, because well-being is not only the european welfare but also the welfare of the chinese people.
member of the commission. i think in the circumstances and in view of the time, it might be better if i gave the member a written response to his question.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the latest serious and most recent case of counterfeiting of a consumer good - a toothpaste containing an antifreeze, sold on the european market and produced in china - brings to the fore the problem of combating the 'multinational counterfeit'. it is in this large asian country, where de facto slavery is permitted for workers without any security, that the majority of the industry is concentrated in the counterfeiting of medicines, cosmetics and foodstuffs, as well as toys and clothing containing carcinogenic chemicals which are strictly prohibited in the european union. unfortunately, this phenomenon - which until a few years ago was limited to high-end products (creams, perfumes, watches and luxury bags) - is now spreading to products that are available to an increasing number of users, with a consequent high risk to consumer health. today more than ever it is necessary for the political and industrial west to take a firm stand against the powerful and wealthy china. on the one hand, we must strengthen the coordination of member states' inspection activities on imported products and, on the other hand, we must persuade the chinese government to apply extensive and very strict on-the-spot checks in order to protect the european industry from unfair competition, also due to counterfeiting and piracy.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, a stronger europe for a better world. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 'a stronger europe for a better world': i and my group very much like your slogan and i think there are three things the presidency should do in the next six months to remind us of this 'stronger europe'. as regards the intergovernmental conference, there must be no tolerance for those who want to reverse the agreements reached, while finding room for improvement, for example in the field of climate change, and seek to promote and allow the opening up of the intergovernmental conference to the european parliament and public debate. these are the conditions for the success of the reform of the treaties, a reform which will not be the last because we are already committed in this parliament to relaunching the battle for the european constitution. on the lisbon strategy, we think that we will not make any progress if, in the next six months, we are not able, together with the commission and parliament, to strengthen the climate change agenda, because the latter cannot be separated from the lisbon agenda. after the decisions taken during the german presidency, the time has come to act, rejecting the temptation of many member states to get lost in bargaining and negotiations in which each of the parties has the objective of minimizing its commitments. we therefore want to relaunch and ask you to take into consideration the idea of a climate and energy security pact, based on the objective of limiting the temperature increase to 2°c compared with the pre-industrial level and its instruments including sanctioning mechanisms, exactly like the stability pact. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the question of energy saving; transport, which remained incredibly outside the agreements of last spring and responsible for 30% of emissions; the commission has not yet done anything, unfortunately, with regard to the renewable energies, especially with regard to the directive on heating and cooling. the question of renewable energy enables me, mr president, to bring to your attention the question of agrofuels and relations with brazil. we are preoccupied: the mystical vision and miraculous meaning given by president lula to agrofuels, as the new "green gold" not so popular; we are not at all pleased that the issues of deforestation, illegal timber imports, food security and the european contribution to the development of innovative renewable energy technologies have been excluded from the agenda. i would like to make a similar comment shortly on the question of africa. the fine words of presidents socrates and barroso have a worrying practical implication which i would like to take into account: the european union is pressing various african countries to sign the economic partnership agreement by the end of the year. the commission is using the money from the development fund to convince these countries, many of which are opposed to civil society, that a total opening up of their markets would ultimately reduce and limit their chances of integration into the international market. i would have liked to say many other things, mr president, but i cannot. i hope i have other opportunities to do so. (applause from the left)
(ni) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister sócrates, we have welcomed the presentation of the guidelines which portugal intends to follow in the coming months: we naturally share the priority for the intergovernmental conference and can only wish you the best so that you can achieve the objective of fully and faithfully translating the mandate into a new treaty. as you yourself have said, the presidency will not be limited to this task in the coming months. we appreciate the list of priorities you have set and we understand the reasons why portugal will be particularly committed to some of these priorities - lisbon, africa, brazil - but at the same time we would like to stress that in order to turn your slogan into reality and to demonstrate that a stronger europe can serve a better world, it is necessary that intentions be accompanied by facts, which are not chosen by us but by the objective priorities of the reality around us. in this connection, i would like to draw your attention and that of your presidency to the priority of priorities, which is given by a region close to us in the mediterranean, the middle east, on which europe can and must do more. the region has been scarce in the recent past, but now that the dangers are becoming more acute, and the opportunities are also becoming more acute, europe must show that it can be stronger in order to contribute to a better world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the portuguese presidency is right to engage in dialogue with africa, which perhaps needs more the presence, for example, of an army of european small and mediumsized enterprises, which will return and bring about a healthy economy in those regions, rather than an invasion by the chinese or by multinationals not always inspired by humanitarian criteria. however, it is equally essential to exclude from that summit a leader like mr mugabe, whom europe should condemn not only for his anti-humanitarian initiatives and activities but also for his anti-white and anti-european racism, because racism must be condemned everywhere and not just in certain directions. we are concerned, however, about the attitude of mr manuel lobo antunes towards an extremely rapid and rapid opening of the turkey dossier: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are very worrying issues, also of a geopolitical nature: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. alongside institutional reform, without which the european union will not have its proper role in the world, and the challenge of competitiveness in the framework of the lisbon strategy, i hope that the portuguese presidency will be able to tackle with vigour what, as i have already stressed on several occasions, represents the main impasse to be overcome, namely energy independence and the challenge of combating climate change. energy will be both the business and the problem of the future, given the warning about the imminent exhaustion of non-renewable sources and the commitments of the kyoto protocol. only by being sufficiently independent of external suppliers can we guarantee europe a leading role in the world economy in the long term, as well as a stronger position on the geopolitical chessboard, not subject to external blackmail, which is an indispensable condition for promoting stability, democracy and respect for human rights in the world. we are therefore trying to concentrate our attention, energy and resources on what we already have, nuclear energy, and on what we can have, renewable energy, by promoting research, co-financing by the member states and the private sector, by intervening in taxation, by reforming the transport sector, by recalling european experts who have fled abroad for lack of opportunities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr leinen for pointing out the presence of minority views. our rules state in article 2 that we cannot be bound by instructions in receiving a binding mandate. this applies to the substance of the questions and, in my view, also to the method. a system whereby, in relation to a decision which will have effects for the next few years or decades, we have had an hour and a half to table amendments to the original versions, and not even that time in committee, is a kind of imperative mandate not to debate, which parliament has received on such an important matter. it 's not a formality . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have, however, renounced ourselves, renounced being a parliament and renounced exercising the powers at our disposal. that is the reason for the minority opinion.
mr president, i would like to propose an oral amendment to this amendment to add the word ‘european’ before ‘referendum’, so it would then read ‘european referendum’.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although i have heard the explanation of the rapporteur, i would point out that if we approve paragraph 4 which we are going to vote on, we must bear in mind that the text of amendment no 21 is exactly the same as that of paragraph 4. so if we do this, we're going to have the same text in the report twice. if we want to move the text, we should reject a first paragraph and then pass the amendment.
in writing. i agree with the convening of the conference which, in the context of the conclusions of the european council of 21 and 22 june, will have to draw up amendments to the existing treaties. this will be the end of the long transition period in which the union has lived, between lost illusions, confirmed ideals and renewed hopes. one thing is certain: the attempt to break the monopoly of political legitimacy of nation states legacy of the 17th century treaty of westphalia has failed. the europe that sees itself as the europe of the euro-realists must be able to prove that a union of sovereign states is capable of acting effectively through the expression of a common will. if it does not, it will have to abandon for a long time the prospect of having any say in international relations and in the balance of the great powers. i welcome the strengthening of the arrangements for the participation of our assembly in the work of the conference and i hope that the results of the work will also be published in the form of a provisional consolidated version of the treaties for reasons of transparency. the europe of peoples and nations is taking shape. i am convinced that the conference will not disappoint in this future.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, unfortunately, as early as 1942, in the manifesto of ventotene, your europe of the fatherlands was prophetically denounced as the main danger of an alternative to the united states of europe, to the european fatherland. on 14 february 1984 the european parliament defeated this lethal policy. now, in retaliation, the european council has launched a real blitzkrieg, led by general erwin rommel, to impose on us obedience - now undeservedly granted - by the 'parliaments' of the 1930s, whether fascist or communist or of continental cowardice. you are afraid of words, of our anthem, of our symbol, of our name, of "laws" themes forbidden, you want "directives". it 's been days . the european parliament has been a very important instrument in the development of the european community, and it is not only the european parliament that has been the instrument of the european community, but also the european parliament. you're afraid of the powerful and the bullies. we will call for the fight against this degradation: by european federalists in the name of those you betray: the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information it has received from the member states. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and to give its opinion on the budget for the financial year 2000. i hope that we are wrong, but i am sadly convinced that we are not. long live the motherland of europe! and i vote against it!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, have you seen how all our colleagues have run away at lunchtime? in fact, they called in the suspension, they claimed it, and they all ran off to lunch. but why don't we cancel lunch? one a day is enough... in this way, the members who have fled would know how pensioners in europe live, who cannot eat more than once a day because their pensions, which also derive from the work activity that protasiewicz discusses, are so low that they cannot afford more than one meal a day. in italy today, the news is all about pension increases, which are crumbs. i therefore hope that in future a members' meal will be abolished and pensions increased throughout europe, even though it is not europe's job to increase pensions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, president trichet, president juncker, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament can say with satisfaction that the euro area is a key element of stability in the global economy. as the rapporteurs rosati and mitchell have already made clear in this second report, parliament can see that the economic situation improved in 2006 and that this has led to a positive change in economic growth and particularly in employment, with the creation of as many as two million new jobs, as has already been mentioned. this is a positive trend that the euro area member states have been able to achieve thanks to a sound and prudent fiscal policy and the efforts made to implement the necessary structural reforms, which are also due to the increased interdependence that the euro area imposes on the member states. nevertheless, some questions had to be asked, the main one of which has already emerged in the report of commissioner almunia: what is the public's perception of this positive development? what are the positive outcomes for individual citizens? unfortunately, beyond the official data, the tangible effects are not yet really felt by the public. we must recognize that the repeated demands for wage moderation, under certain conditions certainly justified from an economic point of view, are in reality far from the daily life of individual citizens and it is therefore clear that at the moment some states, including italy, where there are strong social tensions, have objective difficulties in allocating all the additional revenue to debt reduction. i therefore believe that, in keeping with the commitments we have made in the medium term, we must meet a challenge: how can we reconcile the rigid rules of economics with the demands of social equity?
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i really hope that tony blair is in the process of redemption from his sins in the iraq war and can help bring peace and justice to the palestinians and peace to the israelis. i am very grateful for the input of the ten european foreign ministers who gave blair four key points to work on. these are urgent and truly dramatic points. to help mahmoud abbas, the palestinian people and israel, i believe it is absolutely essential to negotiate a decisive agreement and end a brutal military occupation that has lasted for more than 40 years. that is essential, but so is the emergency. as the european union we have responsibilities: reopen rafah, six thousand people in the sun, with nothing, who can't go home. we must make the eu bam work. the political prisoners must be released, not only gilad shalit, but also the palestinian political prisoners, including marwan barghouti, who can be a factor of political unity and peace in the middle east.
acting president of the council. mr president, may i first of all express my congratulations, in particular to commissioner benita ferrero-waldner, and also draw attention to her first speech, which was very clear and very explanatory on the action that the european union is taking in palestine, within the framework of what is the commission's competence, an intervention which i very much appreciate. i should like to refer briefly to two questions raised here, mainly by mr josé salafranca, the first of which concerns the appointment of mr tony blair as representative of the quartet and then also the letter signed by ten ministers of foreign affairs of member states of the european union. as regards the appointment of mr tony blair, i think we should be glad that he has been appointed, firstly because he is a european, secondly because he has been president of the european council, thirdly because he is a politician with extraordinary experience in international affairs, and partly also because he is a man of conviction. so i think that the quartet, the european union, we europeans, all of us have something to gain from this appointment, and we must give it all the cooperation we can. his mandate is defined, it is known, and mr tony blair will naturally act within the mandate given to him. we naturally hope that your action will be of benefit to the middle east peace process and we wish you every success in this task. as regards the letter referred to here, i must say that it was drawn up and signed in the context of an informal and specific group of ministers, and the portuguese minister for foreign affairs signed it in exactly that capacity. if i see the letter, it does not say luis amado, minister for foreign affairs to the president of the council of the union, says luis amado, minister for foreign affairs of portugal, and it was exclusively on that basis that this letter was signed. we may or may not agree with its contents, with its content, but there is one thing that i think is important: the reason for this is that, at least in its spirit, it calls attention to the urgency, the complexity, the need for the european union as a whole to be able to play an important role in resolving this conflict, in resolving a conflict that has dragged on for 40 years, and thus responding to the call made here by many members for the european union to try as much as possible to play a decisive role in this matter. and i must say, ladies and gentlemen, that we will try to make our contribution as intensively as possible, as fruitfully as possible, in our presidency, of course in collaboration with the commission, so that the middle east peace process can be brought to an effective development, to a positive advance.
member of the commission. mr president, i will be really brief. we must take from this discussion the positive elements in this very difficult peace process and try to put the puzzle together in such a way that there is a step forward. i hope that the next meeting of the quartet, where, i think, the political horizon and the political settlement will at least start to be mentioned, will be such a step forward. secondly, i would mention all the daily improvements for the palestinians: the mobilisation of international assistance, the institutional and governmental needs of the palestinian state and the plans to promote palestinian economic development. in this respect, we are also ready to revive our interim association agreement with the palestinian authority, which, among other things, provides for the importation of agricultural products from palestine – although, of course, on the basis of a quota system. we all try to do our best, but it also depends on the political will of both sides, which, unfortunately, we cannot substitute for.
i have received six motions for resolutions. in accordance with article 103 (2) of the regulation. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in pakistan.
acting president of the council. mr president, very quickly, i think that, as i have said here, the association council with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 24 july will be very important for us to have a clearer idea of the progress that has been made in that country, also in the context of its application for full membership of the european union and, of course, we will also await in the autumn the progress report that the commission will present to us on the state of play of the application process of fyrom. the commission's opinion on this matter will certainly be of great importance to the presidency and the member states. it is clear that when the former yugoslav republic of macedonia fulfils the criteria for opening the negotiating period, these negotiations should begin. the question of the name or designation of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has also been raised here on several occasions. i should tell you that during the first portuguese presidency in 1992 i was part of the portuguese team which was in charge of the question of the former yugoslavia - with lord carrington and ambassador josé cutileiro - and at that time this question was already being raised. i see that after 15 years the problem still exists. i hope that the parties can sit down at the negotiating table and find a mutually acceptable solution.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate. i fully agree with mrs ibrisagic, who underlined the security aspect of eu enlargement. we often talk only about integration capacity, but fortunately the december european council last year was able to renew our consensus on enlargement, with the support of parliament and the initiative of the commission. this renewed consensus on enlargement covers both sides of the coin: the strategic importance of enlargement for security and stability for enhancing our values of democracy and human rights, and combining it with integration capacity of the union. both sides are essential and both sides are important for a carefully managed eu accession process. in this regard the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a prime example. in 2001 the country was on the brink of a civil war. in 2005 the country was granted candidate status. it is a success story in this sense. last year we saw slower progress in the reforms, but that is a further reason why 2007 should the year when the country gets back on track on the european road, through the determined reforms that lead to practical results. therefore, the focus for the government and all political parties should not be on dates for opening eu accession negotiations but rather on pursuing the reform process with full determination and practical results. the reforms are the journey that will lead to the destination of opening the negotiations and then one day closing such negotiations. for that, the objective of eu accession should not become a party political football: all parties should be united in pursuing this objective and fostering a political climate conducive to the successful adoption of the necessary reforms. that is why the mission of the representative of the parliamentary delegation of the country today here in strasbourg is of paramount importance, and i trust they will carry this significant message back home with them to skopje. finally, the commission notes that there has been no progress recently on the main issue, as mr lobo antunes said. that situation pretty much covers the past 15 years. the commission hopes that both parties could renew their efforts, with a constructive approach to find a negotiated and mutually acceptable solution on the main issue under the auspices of the united nations, thereby contributing to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the council by mr gianluca susta and mr johan van hecke, on behalf of the alde group, mr kader arif, on behalf of the pse group, mr georgios papastamkos, on behalf of the ppe-de group, mr vittorio agnoletto and mr helmuth markov, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr carl schlyter, on behalf of the verts/ale group, mrs cristiana muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the trips agreement and access to medicinal products (o-0036/2007 - b6-0130/2007);
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the secretariat of the inta committee for their assistance in this work. access to medicines for the poorest countries is a priority for us, even in the light of the international commitments we have made. we cannot therefore simply accept the protocol to the trips agreement blindly and consider the matter settled. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, ladies and gentlemen of the council, generic commitments are no longer enough. the european union can and must do more, and if it is not realistic to think that it can renegotiate the protocol, the council, if it wants to have the assent of the european parliament, must make a firm commitment to declare that the mechanism created by the wto decision of 30 august 2003 is only a small part of the solution to the problem. this means ensuring that member states have the right to invoke article 30 of the trips agreement in their national patent legislation to authorize production and export to meet public health requirements in importing member states. limit the commission's mandate in the negotiation of economic partnership agreements with the poorest countries so as not to include provisions going beyond the trips agreement. support developing countries that use the flexibilities included in the trips agreement to provide essential medicines at reasonable prices. support cluster supply strategies to ensure economies of scale in the production of affordable generic medicines and to stimulate direct investment in local manufacturing facilities. actively support the work of the world health organisation's intergovernmental working group on public health, innovation and intellectual property. recognize that the european union urgently needs to take additional measures to promote technology transfer, research, capacity building, regional supply mechanisms in the poorest areas of the world. ensure a specific level of funding to upgrade or build locally owned pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities in developing countries and increase overall funding for public-private partnerships dedicated to the research and development of medicines of particular relevance to developing countries. we therefore believe that we have made a real contribution to tackling this urgent issue, as the images coming from the poorer worlds show. the ball is now in the court of the council and the commission and if we have timely, precise and non-generic answers, without hesitation, the european parliament will give the required positive assent.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the export mechanism provided for in the decision of 30 august 2003 has introduced so many technical and administrative restrictions and obstacles that, in fact, as médecins sans frontières pointed out in a publication of september 2006, it has never been able to be used. parliament had already asked the commission and the council for a specific commitment in its resolution of 2 december 2004. on 30 november 2006, the european parliament again took a firm position on the issue of access to medicines in the global south and unanimously voted a resolution calling on the commission, i read verbatim, 'to recognise, five years after the adoption of the doha declaration, that its implementation has been a failure, as the wto has not received any notification from an exporting/importing country of mandatory medicines, nor any notification under the wto general council decision of 30 august 2003 on the implementation of paragraph 6 of the doha declaration. secondly, parliament was asked to take the necessary steps at the wto in cooperation with developing countries to amend the trips agreement and the provisions based on the decision of 30 august 2003 to abolish, in particular, the long and complex procedures for the granting of compulsory licences. so far, seven months later, the council and the commission, duly requested by all the groups in this parliament, have not given the european parliament any answer. the extreme defence of a mechanism such as the one of 30 august 2003 reproduced in the amendment to the trips agreements that the eu would like to ratify is indicative of a very precise choice of field: the european union's policy is to side with the big pharmaceutical companies and leave millions of patients in poor countries at the mercy of deadly diseases like aids, tuberculosis, malaria and dozens of other forgotten diseases without research and without treatment. the european parliament has been a party to the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, and it is not the council that is responsible for the negotiations.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mr susta and all the other members who have made it possible to carry out this cross-cutting work and launch this political initiative to ensure that people in the poorest countries of the world have access to medicines at reasonable and affordable prices for those populations. if extreme poverty is a severe social disadvantage, when it is accompanied, as is often the case, by serious illness, it is the most absolute discouragement: that's the central message we want to send. the agreement reached in the wto, which is probably the only viable legal way in multilateralism to facilitate access to cheap medicines, leaves many, many questions. the commission has also proposed a new system of taxation of the income of the selfemployed. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the mechanism to the member states. few countries have so far ratified it and - even more worrying - no country has asked for the instrument. we must calmly determine what is not working and how to remedy it. we must have the courage to go further and to recognise that the de minimis agreement only partially solves the underlying problem, which calls into question the effectiveness of the wto's multilateralism rules. we must propose measures at european level which go beyond the agreement and are able to make a valuable contribution to access to medicines at reasonable prices, helping to save many lives. we must encourage the transfer of research and technology to facilitate the production of medicines in poor countries. we must be vigilant - that is the commission's task - because all too often counterfeit medicines arrive in poor countries, and we must therefore also fight this distortion of international trade with determination. but above all we must be vigilant to ensure that the citizens of poor countries are not also subject to this outrage.
i am not sure that the commission and the council are here to make fun of us. i would ask the presidency to allow me to have the tape of this session because i believe that broadcasting it in africa will explain better than any words the absolute and utter indifference of the council and the european commission to the problem of access to medicines. if we, all the groups, ask you about a regulation which has been in force for three years and which has not worked once, will you tell us that this regulation will allow developing countries to have access to medicines? but he didn't let him for three years! what's your magic wand? that is the council's concern. the commission tells us: "we worked so hard to get this agreement". but if it doesn't work - whether you've worked hard or not hard - that agreement has to be changed or you have to find other ways to move forward. the commission and the council are also talking about 'asking the pharmaceutical companies to offer lower prices for the global south', which is to say: "let the drug companies themselves do some good, because we are not in the least able to guarantee a right". they also claim to be "increasing local production capacity in the global south". but how? we are talking about the transfer of technology and nothing is transferred to the south. these regulations prevent the production of it! it is only words, and then you come here and say that this is how the millennium development goals are achieved. it seems to me that there is a complete lack of interest on the part of the commission and the council in the question we have raised.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is, in principle, very correct, although i also asked whether it was intended to deal with the matter in a concrete way. i gave a concrete example of a kurdish mayor who was fired for providing municipal services in his own language in a place where 72% of the population is kurdish. so i wanted to ask if the council thinks it will take steps to address the issue during the dialogue and ask, for example, that the mayor be reinstalled, because in the meantime it is also forbidden to write the names of villages in kurdish and the office of the governor of diarbakir, for example, yesterday opposed and practically dismissed the provincial council which instead wanted to write the names of the streets in both kurdish and turkish.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too join in the rapporteur's congratulations on the excellent work done. the fact that it has contributed to the adoption of the resolution at first reading is a significant fact, which shows the efficiency of this house. as the commissioner and others have already said, the purpose of community statistics is therefore to provide regular support for the formulation, implementation and evaluation of community policies. the union proposes and implements its economic, environmental and social policies on the basis of this information and therefore the need for it to be as relevant as possible to reality, reflecting ideal situations as well as the concrete needs of citizens. as far as the alde group is concerned, i would like to reiterate in this house our strong general approval of the commission's proposal, knowing that it touches on important issues and themes such as prosperity, competitiveness, growth, solidarity, economic and social cohesion, sustainable development, security and the further enlargement of the european union. i believe that we as the european parliament have done well in supplementing and therefore completing this proposal by including innovation and human development, regional cohesion and the demographic challenges facing european society. so this is the meaning of our contribution: the commission's proposal is to be supplemented and not distorted. in fact, we believe that there is a problem at the moment, which we raised when we were finalising the approval of this pathway: the quality of the data is also a guarantee of the quality of the decision. to have therefore introduced into the final text, which is the subject of the compromise, the concept of preparing the programmes of annual statistical work and the need to take account of the optimal use of resources. this is the case with regard to the principle of better regulation, which we have already approved, and in the light of the commission's communication on reducing the burden of responding to the simplification of the objectives in the field of community statistics. finally, i think it was important to introduce the need for the commission to carry out ex ante analyses of the financial impact of new planned statistical activities which impose additional burdens on the member states, and to include feasibility studies to achieve a quality label for european statistics and to strengthen the credibility of the european statistical system, including eurostat, the national statistical authorities, the other responsible bodies in each member state responsible for the production and dissemination of european statistics. the objective is certainly to have independent statistical centres, but we still have to work on this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, during the last parliamentary term, my radical colleague, maurizio turco, put questions to the european commission on the tax privileges of the catholic church and the companies that revolve around it in italy and spain. the commission's replies to the request for information have also reached italy in recent weeks. in spain the questions had the effect of bringing about the amendment of the vat act, which was amended precisely to eliminate those advantages and privileges. in italy, however, this has triggered a series of absolutely disorderly reactions: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this parliament should be pleased that for once the questions to the european commission have had such a tangible effect and i think we should maintain our support for this initiative.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank commissioner špidla for his presence and for his testimony. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the greek people in particular, but also with the people of other countries, for example in sicily and southern italy, who have suffered similar disasters, and then i would like to acknowledge the self-sacrifice of the firefighters and volunteers and, of course, also express my solidarity with the victims and their families. i would like to take up the last part of mr schulz's speech, namely the importance of prevention, which i consider to be the main and priority task, particularly in relation to climate change - i would like us to be convinced that it is a reality and not a slogan. it is essentially a worsening of extreme events, which means more intense rainfall and longer droughts. it's a completely new challenge for our territory. we need to maintain our territories with a view to taking concrete action against these phenomena, particularly forest fires: the forest must be cleared of fire load, cleared, and anything that may be a factor in the spread of fire must be removed, with the aim of reducing the fire load and the rate at which it spreads. this is therefore maintenance which must also cover watercourses as far as floods are concerned, in order to increase the retention times of water. we simply have to look at the many proposals made since the barnier report for a community structure for responding to natural disasters. in conclusion, all this shows that the civil defence sector is also an area where the union's intervention capacity as such is needed, precisely because there are disasters which exceed the size of individual member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of fires has sadly affected many countries of the european union, even causing victims. italy has also been deeply affected, once again, this year. unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon, it is one that is growing and, above all, one that cannot be treated as an emergency year after year. in all honesty, in order to give meaning and effectiveness to our proposals and demands, we must first of all make it clear that in most cases these are not tragic accidents but real criminal acts, crimes against the environment, people, society as a whole and its future, carried out for speculative purposes. these crimes require a rapid, effective, severe, deterrent and planned response. what role can the european union play in helping member states respond to these disasters and criminal acts? what tools can you provide? the idea of a european union task force to provide rapid relief, resources and assistance is a good one, but the objective we must set ourselves must be broader and must be to tackle the root of the problem. we must fight crime and its system of perverse speculative interests, against micro-conveniences, by implementing legislative coordination between the member states on the layout and use of the territory subject to fires and devastation! we must have time constraints to prevent building abuses in agriculture and livestock farming! we must invest resources in building a common detection network and help the local communities too, so that repression is combined with prevention!
before concluding the debate, i would like to thank all the speakers from all the political groups for the high level of their speeches. i was born in peschici, one of the towns in southern italy that was hit hardest by the fires this summer, which claimed three lives. i understand the shock and grief of many and i want to thank you all for your great concreteness and determination. i hope that the council will be able to meet the concerns of parliament and the commission. i have received five motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda for the joint debate is the following: - report by katalin lévai, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the better regulation programme in the european union (2007/2095 (ini)) (a6-0273/2007); - report by bert doorn, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on better regulation 2005: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality - xiii annual report (2006/2279 (ini) (a6-280/2007); the report by giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the strategy for simplifying the regulatory environment (2007/2096 (ini) (a6-0271/2007); and the report by manuel medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the legal and institutional implications of the use of soft law (2028/2028 (ini)) (a6-0259/2007).
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in november 2006 the european commission adopted a working document, a first progress report on the strategy for simplifying the regulatory environment, followed by a further communication in october 2005. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the working document was approved by the legal affairs committee, which took stock of the progress made in implementing the simplification programme, which was launched in 2005, as i said. in particular, 43 refusal decisions are announced and i would like to give parliament this news, these figures: the commission has adopted 12 codifications, 8 repeals and 46 other substantial simplification measures, to which must be added 500 new legislative initiatives contained in another programme specifically modulated and dedicated to codifications, while 200 are already announced for 2007. i would therefore like to make a few comments on this point, which are the substance of my report, and of course very brief, to give parliament a real and concrete picture of the situation and the in-depth reflection of the legal affairs committee as a whole. i would like to make three strong points to the commission - and i think it is important to say and emphasize this - that: 1. to systematically include simplification initiatives in a specific part of the legislative and work programme in order to identify them specifically; 2. indicate at the same place the priority it intends to give to individual simplification initiatives; 3. avoid the proliferation of documents containing lists of simplification initiatives in order to have as precise a reference framework as possible. the commission must therefore - and i must stress this again - be consistent with itself and with the aims of the simplification it has highlighted and initiated. in particular, it is worth noting the desirability of recasting finally becoming the ordinary legislative technique. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in this way, the entire text of the legislation is always available, even if it has been amended from time to time, with the new parts and the parts which have remained unchanged clearly indicated. this is a very important piece of legislation for parliament. the result would be the much-needed greater legibility and transparency of community legislation. the commission working document ultimately proposes to use the initial summaries of its proposals to explain better the objectives of simplification. however, the initiative may also prove counterproductive, and while a summary may be justified by a discursive text such as a communication, it is not so for a normative text, which in its initial summary may also find uncertainties and therefore we must be very careful and very precise about this. finally, the report highlights the strong signal given by the amendment of parliament's rules of procedure with regard to the improvement and introduction of the procedure provided for by the codification of article 80 and of a new ad hoc procedure for reconsiderations, article 80a. these are the questions which parliament must consider, i hope unitedly and as a whole without amendments, so that this can become an important point for the approval of parliament itself tomorrow.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for this very difficult task, and for another problem: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the legislation, and it is particularly difficult to work on this, especially to see what can be achieved for our citizens in the context of better lawmaking. i would like to say very briefly that my group agrees with almost everything in the reports by mr gargani and mr medina, but i would like to stress - as did commissioner verheugen - that as regards the alternative instruments to legislation, it must be made clear that their operation, and i am speaking in particular of self-regulation and co-regulation, is highly unsatisfactory. as mr medina points out, the key is to focus on the legal and legislative value of the acts. mr doorn knows full well that my group and i have some reservations about the idea of concentrating all our attention on the issue of subsidiarity and proportionality, which is the initial theme of his report, and on the question of administrative costs: the question of administrative costs is a minor one for us compared with the question of the ability of the legislative provisions of our institutions to arrive at legislation which is clear in substance, which can be applied in a fair and balanced way, which cannot be ambiguous and, above all, which cannot be drawn to one side or the other. the debate on substance is at least as important as the debate on cost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, i'd like to know one thing: how much will it cost, commissioner verheugen, to do everything you are asked to do? committees, reports, monitoring, all these things cost, if we really want to go in the direction of building this whole big scaffolding, we also need to know how much this is going to cost.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i have listened carefully to the discussion on the future of the single market and i would like to thank all participants for their comments. the review of the single market is an essential part of a reference to the delivery of a europe of tangible results with the clear focus on the citizens. the single market is not a means to an end. our policies must serve the people and improve their quality of life. all europeans, you and i, should be able to identify with these policies. big challenges remain in the single market. some of our proposals are already on the table. others will soon come. we need your support on these initiatives to bring them to a successful end. we are rethinking the way we govern the single market, at national and eu level. any initiative is thoroughly prepared under the better regulation principles. this allows us to examine all options before taking action and this may include considering self-regulation in specific areas. we need to improve the ownership of the single market. it belongs to our consumers, to our companies, to our workers and our civil society. it belongs to national, regional and local authorities. we need to facilitate the cooperation between member states on a daily basis. i would like once again to thank the rapporteur and am looking forward to receiving further comments from parliament in the coming months.
the debate is closed. the vote on this will take place today. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the oral question by mr giuseppe gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, to the commission on the state of play of work on the 'statute of the european private company' and the 'fourteenth company law directive' (o-0042/2007 - b6-0137/0000).
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this question is very important, both institutionally and politically, because it has great political and institutional value. i must say this very clearly, on my own responsibility: the european commission is very, very seriously in default of the european parliament because it has not followed up parliament's formal requests and has not put forward legislative proposals on european private companies and the relocation of the registered offices of companies. the legislative proposal on company statutes was formally requested in february 2007, on the basis of article 192 of the treaty, and - i want to emphasise this and ask the commissioner to listen because it is a very important oral question, mr president, which will have to be answered - after a thorough debate, supplemented also by a hearing with qualified and representative experts, who have shown us how necessary and useful such a tool is to the benefit of small businesses that want to operate effectively in the internal market. the commission had a duty, commissioner, to start the procedure for adopting the legislative proposal immediately, starting with an impact assessment. on the other hand, the commission already had a feasibility study in december 2005, but it did nothing, instead taking its time and starting a consultation in july on the need - and therefore still only a hypothetical discussion - for a european private company, as if parliament, which universally represents the whole of the union, were not entitled to base the request on a substantive legislative act. i shall not go into the substance of european legislation, but klaus lehne, a leading expert on the subject in the commission, will be speaking shortly on the subject of the substance of the law. i would like to go into the matter in greater detail and remind the commissioner, so that he can take note of all that i am saying, of the relationship that exists at institutional level and which must characterize the necessary cooperation between the commission and parliament. i think the commissioner, and you personally, have done something very wrong, you have slapped parliament in the face. when you ignore parliament's requests under article 192 and above all the interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking, and the many failures - i was chairman of that committee and i know the outstanding issues well - such as when the commission formally undertook not only to take account of the requests but also to provide rapid and appropriate answers to the parliamentary committees. none of this was done! the failure to comply with these obligations leads to a responsibility, which i have no difficulty in defining as legal, of the commission towards the european parliament. in fact, my colleague mr lehne rightly said at the conference on company law organized by the german presidency that the european commission could be sued for non-compliance before the court of justice. then parliament, i say this very clearly, must know that the commission has already confirmed on its website that the consultations carried out in 1997 and 2002 have highlighted an important and precise demand from economic operators. so he knows how important this is and he is aware that it is a duty and an obligation to respond to parliament's demands. but not only did he not approve the legislative proposal, but at the berlin conference the commissioner even said that it was still necessary to discuss whether the proposal was necessary or not. all this raises a great question for us, because we must consider whether the european parliament still has the chance of actually demonstrating the validity of this legislative proposal. a directive on this subject - i conclude - is needed to give legal certainty to the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment of companies. we are waiting for a specific proposal from the commissioner, which means not respecting the various lobbies, i believe from england, the united kingdom and ireland, but facing a negative situation. we must not look after the interests of individual countries, commissioner, as you well know, but the interests of europeans! parliament is not a lobby and we are actually and concretely expressing this need and this necessity!
member of the commission. i wish to thank all members for their comments. i am afraid i cannot agree with mr gargani when he said that the commission has not done anything and that it ignored parliament. when we discussed parliament's resolution on 1 february 2007 in brussels, i undertook to answer parliament in detail and i have every intention of living up to that commitment. i also noted the request from a number of members, during our debate on 1 february, not to ignore preparatory work. consultation on the epc was duly launched in july. there is some support amongst stakeholders for a european private company. but it would be wrong to assume that there is consensus on its possible content, as both mr titley and mrs bowles have illustrated. jumping to a conclusion risks parking the proposal on the shelf before it even gets started.
the debate is closed.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the possible closure of the gdansk shipyards.
member of the commission. mr president, may i just emphasise that the commission understands the historic significance of the gdańsk shipyard and the sensitivity of the case. we all agree on the objective that the gdańsk shipyard should be restructured to make it a viable yard. this is the process that the commission wants to encourage. however, the commission has the responsibility to do so while ensuring a level playing field in the european shipbuilding market and consistency in the treatment of companies under restructuring. i would hope that the ongoing discussions between the polish authorities and the commission can lead to a satisfactory outcome.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask that the words 'and cadastral updating' be added at the end of paragraph 23 as an essential tool for monitoring the situation and also as a tool for territorial policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to speak on a subject which is on our agenda: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that this is a matter for discussion in parliament, because the welfare of our children, who must go to school with their parents, is also a matter for this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the dramatic fires which have hit greece and southern italy this summer, killing people and destroying thousands of hectares of forest and agricultural land, have raised the urgent question of greater coordination of the member states' civil protection forces in their rapid response. to this end, it is now clear that a european civil protection agency is needed to coordinate and manage the measures taken to eliminate or reduce the causes of disasters. moreover, the aforementioned agency - which the writer has repeatedly proposed to the european commission to establish, on the basis of the positive experience of the us federal emergency management agency - would not only combat the devastating fires that annually cause great damage in the mediterranean countries, but would also deal promptly with emergencies following all kinds of disasters caused by natural events, such as the recent floods that have struck bulgaria, or man-made. in stressing the supranational nature of disasters, europe must not rely solely on the generosity of volunteers or on the skills and resources of the affected state alone, but must have adequate human, financial and other resources ready to respond in a timely manner.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is really not much to discuss about mr liberadzki's excellent report and therefore the well-argued proposal for a directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods. i voted for it in committee and i confirm my vote here, which i believe will be followed by many colleagues in the its group. the more trade in goods increases between countries of the union and within the union, the more useful it is, in my view, that the conditions for these flows are the same, especially in terms of safety, but also in terms of controls and related administrative practices. it would be illogical to criticise or, worse, to reject such a technical text, on which the consultation of so many experts from the member states has been broadly and qualitatively informed. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to pay tribute not only to mr liberadzki but also to the work of the committee on dangerous goods, and to point out that this work has been carried out without any break with the existing international agreements on the subject. i would like to conclude by noting that the amendments, at least many of the proposed amendments, are in my view to be incorporated, in particular amendment no 2 to recital 14, the amendments concerning the comments on the obvious absence and therefore the exemption of those countries of the union which do not currently have a railway system and frankly i also intend to support amendment no 45.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure to see such an important report completed and fulfilled today. i would like to thank all the colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, the groups and the officials who made this possible. the desire to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol consumption has become a priority in health and social policies worldwide in recent years, and the european union is also doing its part. the european commission has given us a text containing some very good ideas, and we have tried to develop them and add to them. the study of the damage caused by alcohol abuse has brought out a most dismal and disturbing picture: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. healthcare costs in europe amount to €17 billion, with €5 billion spent on treatment and prevention. it should be stressed that the problem arises from the abuse of alcoholic substances, while alcohol consumption cannot be demonized in itself, it is part of the culture, history and traditions of many european states and the quality of certain alcoholic products in many cases are the flagship of the producing countries. the employment aspect must not be forgotten either. it is estimated that more than one million people in europe are involved in the production and processing of alcohol. the european commission, which i thank, has presented a communication focusing on certain priorities, and we have welcomed it by seeking to broaden the scope of action through a number of key points: research into the phenomenon of youth consumption; dissemination of information, assistance and prevention at a cross-cutting level; strengthening public information campaigns, educating the community on the risks of irresponsible alcohol consumption; the commission will also be taking account of the phenomena of violence, especially domestic violence, linked to alcohol consumption. in particular, actions identified to counter the damage caused by abuse are: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the council of ministers, and that the council should be given the opportunity to adopt a decision on the matter. another innovative aspect of the report, which was welcomed by the commission, is the idea of spreading a responsible and conscious approach to alcohol consumption through the so-called short intervention. gps, through their direct, daily contact with patients, can become a valuable tool in identifying the existence of alcohol-related problems even before the patient himself is aware of them: a simple questionnaire called audit, which is already being used on an experimental basis in some european cities, can help with this ad personam intervention. other measures include the promotion of measures to reduce road accidents caused by alcohol abuse, such as increased checks on drunk driving, the spread of tests to determine the alcohol content in the blood, the promotion of alternative driving programmes, the so-called shift driver, the lowering of blood alcohol limits and the tightening of penalties for drunk driving. the report proposes, and in this it seems to have the support of all the groups in the european parliament, a blood alcohol limit as close as possible to zero for newly-patented people, in order to give practical utility to the strategy beyond the mere appeal of principle and the caution expressed by the commission in its text, although many of the measures that could be taken to combat the damage of alcohol abuse fall within the competence of individual states, especially those concerning safety and health. the european union can seek to stimulate, encourage, promote and suggest the adoption of some of these measures. one of the points on which there was no agreement was certainly the issue of labelling the risks and dangers of excessive alcohol consumption. i personally think it is appropriate to ask the commission to carry out a thorough study to define the various information and communication systems, including labelling. in conclusion, the strategy, as amended by parliament, will bring substantial added value compared to individual national policies, especially as it will have the power to direct the action of the member states towards common objectives. in the text of the report i have tried above all to treat the subject with the necessary balance and common sense, avoiding demonizing moderate alcohol consumption, even in keeping with the millenary tradition of good drinking, but trying to suggest useful measures to reduce the negative phenomena, which unfortunately are now more and more frequent in the european and world context. i would like to thank everyone for their support and cooperation.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr foglietta on his excellent report, which deals very effectively with a dramatic and topical subject, namely the abuse of alcohol, particularly by minors. it has already been said, and this is certainly not a question of criminalizing the consumption of alcohol, which, when taken in moderation, can also be beneficial to health. it is a matter of strongly denouncing the spread of alcohol consumption by the very young. alcohol is often consumed with drugs or alcohol itself, which eventually becomes a drug in its own right. alcohol abuse is now a social emergency among young people because it causes very serious physical and psychological damage, to which unfortunately must be added the increasing number of road casualties caused by drunk drivers. unfortunately, italy has the highest number of car accidents in europe, and half of the victims are young people under the age of 30. most of the time they die on the weekends, in the evening, at night, many coming home from a party, from the disco where they've had too much alcohol. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that this report is a good one, an excellent one, and that we share its line in that it has been able to reconcile the prevention of the phenomenon with appropriate interventions in terms of education and communication and with zero tolerance for those who do not respect the rules.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we have postponed this debate from july to september, and that we are doing so in the circumstances in which we are doing so, with the council absent from the issues we wish to raise, is a clear indication of how unprepared europe is in fact to deal with the problem of terrorism in a comprehensive and forceful manner and how this parliament is unfortunately still too weak politically. there used to be terrorist groups in the various countries of the union, internal problems, europe was already largely united and even then there was talk of a common strategy which never came into being. we have arrived at 2001 which has shown how terrorism is global, and it is not a pyramidal organization but of cells connected to each other mainly through the internet and the best computer systems, rooted all over the world and able to strike as they want and when they want. however, there is no eu policy to control the internet and to give certain rules of security to citizens, who do not understand what measures the union has taken and what it intends to take in the short term. first of all, to hold accountable the providers who host sites that foment, support and justify terrorist acts, for example by compulsory blocking of sites that are directly or indirectly linked to people who preach, incite and justify violence. switzerland has done this for a long time, but europe is still wavering and thinking in vain. there is no common position on monitoring false places of worship, false imams, who, as recently happened in the netherlands and italy, have used places of worship to sow hatred, to plan attacks inciting violence against the west, democracy, human rights, including those of women, and even to carry out terrorist attacks in our cities. it is no longer enough, mr president, to talk about a common strategy against terrorism; what is needed is the strength and courage to take decisions, to act with the aim, on the one hand, of preventing future attacks and, on the other, of rendering harmless the terrorist cells that are nesting and proselytizing, using our values of freedom, freedom of worship and freedom of expression, to act precisely against freedom. the arrests in denmark of people suspected of planning an attack with explosives in the last few hours are proof that this is no time to let down our guard and that the anti-terrorism laws passed by denmark are working, but they also sound an alarm for the whole union: we cannot rely solely on the effectiveness of national laws and the efficiency of the investigative forces in individual countries, we need more coordination. political correctness is too often concealed by the inability or unwillingness to make decisions. democracy, freedom and the right of individuals to live in peace and freedom are at stake! freedom is guaranteed by the rules! we must do what is politically right to safeguard not only our own peoples but those throughout the world who have their rights respected and who are aware of their duties. every delay makes us accomplices! let us come out of this debate with a common commitment to immediate achievement and not with supposed positions of right or left, but strong and united. this will be the best tribute to the memory of the lives that since 9/11 have been taken by barbarism around the world. for each of us, terrorism is and always will be a crime against humanity.
author of the book. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we often say that the fight against terrorism is a priority and new legislative political initiatives are called for. i think we should first assess the choices made over the years by asking ourselves a few questions. firstly, is terrorism stronger or weaker as a result of our legislative initiatives? the second: we have made a decisive contribution to the growth of our legal culture, our values, or have we sold them out in the name of the terrorist emergency? i think that these two questions should be answered first, to find out that the emergency measures have often been wrong, the lists of terrorist organizations have been approximate, often dictated more by political reasons than by the real danger of the organizations. we called a guy to coordinate counterterrorism activity, then we found out that without a clear reason, we can do without this guy's functions. i therefore ask the council not to appoint a new anti-terrorist coordinator precisely because in recent months we have discovered that we can do without him. we have often said, and we say it forcefully, and i think it must be reiterated in this house, that terrorism is the enemy of our civilization, it is the enemy of democratic law, terrorism is barbarism. terrorist attacks represent the transition from the rule of law to the rule of law. all this is true, but instead of bringing back the debate on the restoration of democratic rules we have chosen to address the issue through the restriction of the rules of civil coexistence. we have chosen to fight on the privileged ground of the adversary, to compete on the violation of human rights, on military control of the civilian population, on the denial of the core principles of democracy. the images of abu ghraib or the images of the guantanamo base are the emblem of the victory of the culture of terrorism over our rule of law and the core principles of our legal culture. the other symbol may be represented by what has happened with the cia flights and the kidnappings in europe, with the explicit involvement of the european governments in this matter and there is an embarrassing silence - i too, as have other colleagues, ask the council to express itself on this point - there is an embarrassing silence, everyone has spoken! this parliament has spoken about the responsibilities of the cia, the responsibilities of european governments, the responsibilities of our intelligence services. the commission has spoken, the council of europe is speaking. the only embarrassing silence comes from european governments and i think that is unacceptable. we hope that the council will be able to comment on this today. in europe, unfortunately, the exception procedure has become the rule and we should therefore clearly discuss the effects of our legislative choices: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the biometric data in passports and visas, the system for checking personal data, the telephone communications databases, the air passenger databases, the pnr agreements, the swift system, the fingerprint storage system and even the liquidity regulation, which we hope to reject today in a resounding manner, also sending a signal to the commission that choices should be made in proportion to what we want to combat. i think it is necessary to say forcefully that we have chosen an authoritarian twisting of the rule of law instead of choosing the safeguarding of the rule of law to combat terrorism. it is not clear, mr president, whether terrorism has been more dangerous to european citizens in recent years or whether counter-terrorism practices have been more dangerous. one feminist, an american feminist writer, says, "when solutions are offered to us by those who are the source of our problems, we'd better be careful". i think we better be careful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 11 september in brussels many democratic movements of catholic and christian inspiration organized a large demonstration against islamic terrorism and in memory of the victims of 11 september, but the mayor of brussels, a socialist, banned it on the grounds of low domestic policy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the palestinian people are not left behind. we must instead have political signals from europe that are unambiguous against islamic terrorism and that there is a common struggle with those who preach in mosques against us and our security. the commissioner has rightly said that 'european citizens must be and feel more protected, at least as much as american citizens, and therefore transatlantic relations must also be strengthened'. but, commissioner, for example, are we prepared for the imminent danger of acts of terrorism, whether bacteriological - god forbid - or nuclear? southern europe has proved unprepared for the threat of fires, but i think we must do much more. good work, chief frattini.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this debate is allowing us to overcome, to take stock, but also to overcome some dangerous misunderstandings, a first misunderstanding. we are discussing a strategy against terrorism and not against islam and to reduce the causes of terrorism to simply islamic fundamentalism would be a rather superficial solution, a rather simplistic reading; i'm also concerned about some of the expressions i've just heard: flies bring war to our societies! that's a pretty broad opinion, and it's pretty violent, and it's pretty crude. we think that if tomorrow in turkey a member of parliament stood up in the turkish parliament and said: 'christian churches are bringing war to our society', what would be the disdainful reaction of this parliament? i would also like to make a suggestion to commissioner frattini: we know that the work of repression is absolutely as fundamental as that of prevention. but i believe that the accounts should be drawn up not with the alleged terrorists arrested, but with the real convicted terrorists. it would be useful to monitor and to know how many suspected terrorists have been arrested in our countries in recent years and subsequently released. we have received some answers from the council, some of them partial. i would like to focus on three points here which we need to look at: we are not quite clear what the role of this parliament should be, how it will actually be involved in this european union strategy. we do not think it is enough, as other colleagues have pointed out, to have a meeting every six months between the vice-president, the chairman of the committee on civil liberties and justice and the council. we believe that there needs to be a quality and intensity of sharing that can't be limited to these formal and ritual appointments. it is not clear what will happen to the european union's coordinating role in the fight against terrorism. it was explained to us that this function is primarily linked to providing strategic assessments and disseminating information. when one of our committees had the opportunity to speak to mr de vries, we were told that the function was completely devoid of content and instruments. in this case, i believe that nothing can be more damaging than an institutional function which has no means of being and of being represented. finally, mr president, it is not clear what direction the portuguese presidency will take on euro-atlantic cooperation. i would like to return to the very simple and very straightforward question that was contained in our question. the question was: 'will this cooperation be pursued by methods consistent with article 6 of the treaty as recommended by this parliament at the conclusion of the cia inquiry?' we need a clear answer! a common strategy makes sense if it shares the deep respect for the fundamental rights of citizens and this has not always been the case. we welcome the initiative of vice-president frattini on a questionnaire to be circulated among the member states of the european union to find out what instruments they have put in place and what responses these instruments have produced, also in terms of respect for the fundamental rights of citizens, but in this sense we anticipate that this parliament will in any case promote a follow-up to the conclusions of the commission of inquiry on the cia and ask formally: what action has the council and the commission taken on the many requests contained in those reports? mr president, in conclusion, i think i can say that the fight against terrorism needs a high level of social consensus and the principles of article 6 of the treaty must be respected. avoiding abuses, avoiding simplifications, is the only way to guarantee this consensus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against terrorism must remain one of the european union's top priorities. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. first of all, we must not make the mistake of letting our guard down when the international terror strikes far from europe. unfortunately, the threat of islamic fundamentalism has not diminished, even when the attack is carried far beyond our borders. coordinated action means first and foremost cooperation within the union, but also a strong link with the united states: the european union is not only a member of the united nations, but also a member of the united nations security council. europe must be at the forefront of this prevention and response, but must give priority to substantive action over bureaucratic action. unfortunately, it is easier to have strict controls on deodorant bottles because they are not transported in regular plastic bags than on terrorists who infiltrate illegal immigrants. i therefore welcome, once again, strong action by the european commission and the council. but the fight against terrorism must also be conducted through political initiatives which will finally lead to a solution of the israeli-palestinian crisis by the creation of a palestinian state and the guarantee of security for the jewish state, without, however, giving any concessions to fundamentalist organisations disguised as political forces - i am referring to hamas and hezbollah. but in the fight against terrorism, we must not forget that in europe, alongside the danger of islamist origin, there is a dangerous network of armed parties linked to internal political phenomena and independence. i would like to conclude by saying that europe must not let down its guard on this front either. the events in spain show us that whenever one lets down one's guard or chooses the path of negotiation, the terrorists attack again.
i have been pointed out that i never say, "your honor, you have the floor, thank you, please". i'm not doing this out of a lack of courtesy, but out of respect for your time, because i don't want to waste it. so please stay on schedule, or we're not done.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the summit between the european union and the united states last april was a missed opportunity. in the light of the findings of the european parliament's special committee on secret cia flights, it would have been necessary to make it clear to washington that the development of transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism will only be possible in compliance with article 6 of the european treaty and in full respect of human rights. this has not been done: this means that the fight against terrorism will not only not be strengthened, but will be weakened because, as this parliament has said, it is not acceptable, and it is counterproductive, to fight terrorism by terrorist and illegal methods. the member states of the union which have submitted to american pressure by applying those methods have not only violated the fundamental principles of the union but have opened the way to illegality, exposing europe to increased risks of terrorist retaliation. strengthening the fight against terrorism means first of all doing so in accordance with the law.
thank you, commissioner frattini. i apologize for the noise, but it was not rude to you. the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on 11 october. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
we will proceed according to the rules and on the basis of the request made.
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
a delegation from the south african parliament took its place in the gallery of official visitors. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the south african delegation here to take part in the 10th european parliament-south africa interparliamentary meeting, which will take place on 5 and 6 september. (applause) i would like to thank
of course, mr titley, we are acting on the basis of the declarations signed by individual members with regard to the denunciation of conflicts of interest at the time of taking office and with regard to individual parliamentary paths.
i take note with personal appreciation of your request, which we shall try to manage in accordance with the parliamentary requirements by proceeding with the voting.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the collapse of the us subprime mortgage market has caused a boom in the stock markets today and has put speculators and savers in a serious crisis. what the real estate agents in the united states have done is well known: they offered mortgages, which were not honoured, even to people at high risk, causing a crisis not only in financial products but also in many banks. this year, a very high percentage of mortgage borrowers stopped paying their mortgage payments, bringing the whole system down. in italy, apart from the stock market declines, it seems that the crisis has only affected the national banking system because italian banks apparently have no direct exposure to subprime mortgages. this was not the case for many german, british and french banks, hence the debate today. we are therefore in no way suggesting that the major international rating agencies should be investigated for their role in this affair and that action should be taken on financial instability and the impact on the real economy. but let me tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in italy - because mortgages and the purchase of houses in my country are important - and let me tell you how a leading italian weekly, l'espresso, has described the morality of some italian politicians (who have also been our colleagues) in the face of the suffering of many savers and those who climb up to pay their mortgages, when a simple institution such as the social mortgage could make home ownership a reality. in the face of all this, here is what l'espresso reveals about so much of the italian political class on the left, it is good to underline this, but also from the centre, but above all from the left. these gentlemen, whose names and addresses are given, enjoyed exceptional privileges in the purchase of the house in rome. the recommendation, some will say, is a practice, perhaps even accepted, perhaps it is an ancient thing, in my country and not only, perhaps it is a thing of the world, but when the recommendation is requested and the favor is obtained by a bank or an insurance company, i ask myself: what does it mean in return, by those who govern? according to the weekly, veltroni, prodi's successor, cossutta, daughter of one of the most radical and convinced communists, violante, former speaker of the house and one of the best-known censors of the morality of others, and with them the honourable marino, mancino, mastella, casini, proietti, baccini have bought houses in rome with sometimes even 25-30 rooms at a quarter, if not less, of the market price, benefitting from the owners who, as it happens, are banks and insurance companies. democracy has its costs, it will be said, and as the proletarian democracy had its costs, so does progressive socialism today, which has inherited from the real one the capacity to be concrete in pursuing its own interests. if you are choked by the mortgage month after month and, like the undersigned, you are lucky enough to suffer a little less thanks to this seat and the activity of the consort who now participates, you must take it out on the communists, old and new, who have decided to liberalize the licenses of taxis and the barber's hours and to sell medicine in supermarkets, but have left the banks free to decide the sacrifices to be imposed on your family, to mortgage your future and your life. it is up to you, italian and european citizens, to take the blame if you have decided to do something other than pursue a career in one of the italian parties which govern and have governed cities, regions and nations, and which govern governed by the bank.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again dealing in this parliament with a subject which was already discussed last july. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the euro area. it was a predicted crisis, as the news coming from the united states indicated. that us property prices were overinflated and that the us system allowed loans to be given too lightly to people with poor creditworthiness, or that these mortgages were at such high interest rates, had been news for some time and therefore chain-linked turbulence in the global market was inevitable. who are the subjects who participated in this game? investors, citizens, americans in particular, but also europeans, who are suffering the negative effects; citizens and investors, savers. the question is therefore whether this house and the institutions in general have the protection of savers as a reference point. protecting savers means understanding what the role of the other players is in this framework or scenario, what the role of the rating agencies is, which very often show great inconsistency and sometimes unreported conflicts. i think that rules and regulations should serve to determine all of that. the crisis has also highlighted a strong contradiction in the fact that the ecb is forced to release money to the market and raise interest rates at the same time to deal with the threat of inflation. we hope that this situation will not be determined any time soon. however, if this happens, it means that we have to ask ourselves how the rules governing the players on the world chessboard - since this is a crisis that has once again highlighted the aspect of globalisation - are going to define the behaviour of each player.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a serious spectre of the debacle of subprime mortgages in european banks. many of their funds have irresponsibly filled up with derivatives. there is a serious risk of contagion through private equity. banks irresponsibly rejected bonds from institutional investors and then from savers by presenting them as having a triple a rating, theoretically without the risk of government bonds and not at very high default risk like negative equity loans. speculation, given free rein in the global financial market, has led small savers to believe that derivatives are the philosopher's stone of the third millennium. nothing could be more fake. the spiral is far from over and the real perpetrators, the hidden manipulators of high finance, remain unpunished. we are simply pointing the finger at the rating agencies, but why has it been allowed that the assessment and control of the riskiness of financial products should be entrusted to companies which are heavily involved and have a share in the growth of a market which is addicted to speculation? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. derivatives are to the real economy as usury is to savings and to the productive economy, as we were taught by a great american poet, ezra pound who sang about usury nobody has a solid, square, smooth stone house to decorate its facade, with usury nobody sees gonzaga, you don't paint to keep art in the house but to sell, sell quickly and with profit, a sin against nature. pietro lombardo was not made with usury, duccio was not made with usury, nor piero della francesca or zuan bellini, nor was "la calunnia" painted with usury, angelico is not interested in usury. usury rustens the chisel, rustens art and craftsmanship. usury suffocates the child in the womb, arrests the young drudo, gives the bed to old decrepit, stands between the young spouses. the world is not governed by usury, nor is the widespread interest of honest people who work, produce and save protected! (the president cut off the speaker)
the eighth conference on desertification is a very important occasion, in a just place like the united nations, but it also requires concrete responses to a dramatic situation. climate change is accelerating processes that are already affecting very weak areas such as africa, but it is not sparing our continent either. famine and disease, biblical-sized migration or fires are our future, but they are also our present. strong, clear choices are therefore needed. the first is, of course, to implement kyoto and finally sign the post-kyoto multilateral agreement which provides the framework for a different future. other adaptation choices are also needed to defend lives. there's a real drama here. it's called water. the right to water is already denied and is likely to be denied even more to millions of people. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the proposal. the fight against desertification must also be a guiding principle for climate finance policies. for example, all good practices that enable co2 capture through agriculture and forestry should be promoted and incentivised. this must also mean reviewing choices such as those contained in the community's agricultural policy, which have promoted a decoupling from productive activities that are risky for desertification and fires. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment. we must also have a specific and strong policy on soil in europe, as we have for water and air. that is why we cannot oppose, as some of the european people's party are doing in this parliament, but we must support the framework directive on soil proposed by the commission, which provides that it is an integral part of climate policies. desertification is also caused by the desert of politics. we must fight it with good politics!
i am very grateful to mr valenciano, because his weighty report highlights, among other things, the steps which the european union still has to take in the consultations on human rights and is therefore a work in progress for all of us. i think it is fundamental that he calls for greater coherence and transparency with everyone and also for a wider involvement of civil society in foreign policy. i think it is important to stress the end, not the beginning, of a policy which is often a matter of double standards. mr flautre, for example, took up the question of torture. i also think it is very important to plan for greater coordination between the various bodies and the creation of subcommittees and, above all, to increase cooperation with the national parliaments and with the european commission's delegations in the world. but i think it is important in the matter of double standards that we as the european union do not apply the agreements we sign. i am thinking, for example, of article 2 of the association agreements. i agree with mr de keyser on one point about the amendments. we thank mr valenciano for having accepted many of our amendments. the amendments tabled are negative, except for one, which was not tabled by any group but by mr flautre, which concerns greater monitoring and greater presence and consistency in the post-electoral phases. i also think, as mr valenciano says, that the commission and the council should involve parliament more in the political dialogue process and take account of our views and inform us more and more consistently during and after the negotiations with third countries, as is also provided for in articles 21 and 24 of the treaty. i also think that this issue is generally addressed not only by the formulation of practices but also by an investment in personnel which is extremely important. i think with sadness, for example, of a question which the european parliament has recently asked: the conference of presidents has not accepted the request to have a full-powered human rights commission. i think it was a mistake because it would have been a great opportunity to see and give an idea of the strength and capability of the mainstream.
member of the commission. madam president, i appreciated the exchange of views on the report, which testify the commitment of parliament to the cause of human rights. inspired by the debate, i would like to convey the commission’s comments on the recommendations for increased transparency of the dialogue and involvement of the european parliament and of civil society organisations in all aspects of dialogue and consultation a point a number of interventions have referred to. while some of the report’s recommendations are already becoming part of normal practice, such as those concerning briefings and debriefings, the three institutions should carefully consider the different suggestions and find solutions, while taking into account the eu legal framework and the arrangements between parliament and the commission, which are foreseen in the framework agreement of may 2005. in doing so, we should be pragmatic. on one hand, this means not hiding behind regulations and ‘business-as-usual’ excuses, and, on the other hand, carefully evaluating the political opportunity and the consequences of increased transparency on the effectiveness of the dialogue and the readiness of third countries to engage in the dialogue in the first place. the impact on the actual dialogue and on relations with third countries should be carefully weighed, to avoid depriving the european union of an effective instrument. in all cases, i am confident that we will be able to find the appropriate arrangements to both satisfy the need for information and to preserve and increase the effectiveness of the instrument. on the issue raised on including human rights in trade and sectoral agreements, the commission considers that there is no need to replicate the human rights clause contained in the association agreement, partnership and cooperation agreement or sectoral agreements. the absence of such a clause in sectoral agreements does not prevent us from carrying out human rights consultations with the country in question or to use any other of the instruments of the european union human rights toolbox. on the subject of cooperation programmes for democracy and human rights, the commission would like to remind parliament that the new instrument, the european initiative for democracy and human rights, foresees specific funds for projects in difficult countries such as cuba and burma/myanmar, mentioned in this debate. on the issue of the universality of human rights, let me emphasise that the european union subscribes to the principle of the universality, indivisibility, interdependency and interrelation of all human rights. according to this principle, proclaimed by the world conference on human rights in vienna, human rights are dealt with globally in a fair and equal manner on the same footing and with the same emphasis. of course, this does not exclude the fact that, in a session, a particular set of rights receives more attention because of events on the ground or because of the readiness of our dialogue partners to address certain issues instead of others. the commission is particularly pleased to see that the report devotes several recommendations to women’s rights and to their inclusion in dialogues. we should also not forget other sets of rights and groups that deserve attention. on the question of electoral observer missions, the commission agrees that political dialogue, and in particular human rights dialogue, offers the opportunity to plead with partner countries for the follow-up to eu electoral observer missions’ recommendations. in that context, the commission has also advocated the continuous engagement of the european union head of missions. this follow-up should focus on actions by the political and electoral authorities concerned and on an active role for civil society and democracy promotion, including electoral reform. the commission is not convinced of the need to put in place a specific and separate post-electoral protocol mechanism for that purpose. the commission takes the view that assistance, dialogue instruments and monitoring mechanisms exist, in order to ensure post-electoral strategies and democracy support, and these mechanisms should continue to be used. with regard to the specific question by mr van orden, i will convey his concern and question to commissioner ferrero-waldner, who do doubt will provide you with an answer. to conclude, let me state that i have taken note of the many other specific comments made on particular situations. i assure you that such comments will be forwarded to commissioner ferrero-waldner, who will certainly give them due consideration.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for her work, because i believe it is essential to pursue a european policy of coherence on human rights and democracy in the context of international dialogue. too often, in fact, the logic of economic and strategic interests has prevailed over the good intentions and european values expressed here. in particular, in economic and trade agreements with third countries or in negotiations within the wto, the eu sometimes pays insufficient attention to the rights of workers, minorities, women and children outside the eu, thus becoming a silent accomplice to heinous crimes and intolerable practices. a european economic, social and energy policy that would make the eu more autonomous in terms of human and energy resources would also help europe to get rid of some of the geopolitical constraints that in some situations force it to be silent on human rights. finally, many ep resolutions and declarations on specific situations are often ignored: it is important that both the council and the commission pay greater attention to the appeals of members, who give voice to the demands of people or ethnic groups otherwise excluded from any form of communication.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has lost one of its greatest artists today: luciano pavarotti died this morning in modena. i think it's right to remember this great man of art and culture who brought european music to the whole world. i think this is a great loss for the whole of the european union and i think it is right to remember luciano pavarotti in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot actually quote any article. i would like to say that yesterday you said that the european union should not interfere with the taxation of the church. he also said to say these things in a personal capacity. i believe that the president of the european parliament does not express his views personally on matters which fall within the competence of the commission of the european union, and i would therefore like to say that i regarded these statements by you as particularly inappropriate, because you are also my president and i believe that this question of the taxation of the church should be clarified in the light of european rules. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for insisting, i am referring to the rules of procedure which give you the right to be represented in this house, but also to the rules which provide for fair relations between the european institutions. the problem, contrary to what you have just said, is that there is an ongoing investigation, an ongoing investigation by the european commission, which has asked the italian government for information on the risk of a violation of competition, a task which does not concern subsidiarity but the rules of the european union. you said quite literally that we should leave this to the italian authorities. but how can you say that when the investigation is precisely about the possible violation of community law by the italian authorities? that is the contradiction in what you have said. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i just wanted to reiterate the correctness of the speech by the president of parliament, mr pöettering, who said that he was speaking in his personal capacity. i would remind mr cappato that the european union has no competence in competition matters when it comes to the provision of public services.
a writer. the commission is not we are dealing this afternoon with three countries - burma, sierra leone and bangladesh - which are among the poorest in the world, and yes, one might say, not the countries, but their people. the reason is, of course, the lack of democracy - which is of course quite different in the three countries - the exploitation of the population and, above all, the violation of human rights of all kinds. the first is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is basically hair-raising and should shake us privileged europeans. the military regime's treatment of individuals, especially the various minorities - and i would like to mention the karen in particular - is appalling. we can't just look the other way. i would like to add something which is not mentioned in this motion. we greens are very happy to support the content of this motion because it is very justified from a social and human rights point of view, but i think that the environmental disaster caused by this military regime should also have been emphasized a little more. let me give you an example. a huge dam is planned, during which you have to let it melt on your tongue 10 million people will have to be relocated. what this military regime is doing there can only be countered by the strongest joint action of the eu, the un and the peoples of the world.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have noticed that the voting images have changed. the vote on the nomination, however, seems to me to be only male figures, and since women also vote here, i would ask that the image be adapted to reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you have very rightly said, this parliament has spoken out several times on the situation in burma, but what is happening today has not happened since 1988. there are thousands and thousands of people, of monks, who are demonstrating and the situation is definitely moving. so far the community institutions, the commission and the council, have said nothing. there are scattered reactions from one member state or another. we therefore think that wednesday is an excellent time for a statement by the council and the commission and for a round of speakers from the political groups, if only to show our support for this movement in burma. we cannot be silent at this time and we cannot help but bring public attention to this country, for a reason that has to do with opportunity. so i really hope that the house will support the three groups who have put forward this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 october 1985 altiero spinelli, fearing that the reform of the european parliament in 1984 would be swiftly dismissed in favour of a europe of the homelands against a european homeland, entrusted us in this parliament with the task of continuing the european revolution. i simply quote what he said on december 31st: the european parliament can therefore censure the commission, it can make it resign, it can reject the budget, it can vote a different budget from the council's, but above all it must give the council its opinions. the council cannot decide if it does not have them!' and concludes altiero spinelli, who held dozens of meetings in various european countries on this subject, 'the european parliament should have the courage to strike at its opinions. " we have chosen a military operation, not a parliamentary one, to achieve a new structure, a new shape for europe. i think the polls tell us very clearly what the european people think of this and of the bureaucratic europe of the homelands instead of the european homeland.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate ms thomsen on her excellent report. renewable energy has always been high on the agenda of the european parliament, and now member states are also increasingly aware of the need to strengthen their performance in this field. constantly increasing the use of renewable energy resources is one of the main pillars in european policy to achieve sustainable, competitive and secure energy supplies. therefore, ms thomsen’s report will play a crucial role in the formulation of the commission’s proposal for promotion of the use of renewable energy that i intend to present to the college by the end of this year. i would just remind you that mr vidal-quadras’s report played a huge role in the formulation of our package on the internal energy market. i am pleased to say that my approach in preparing the proposal is already very much in line with most of the calls from parliament. i would like to mention that the proposal will be adopted together with the greenhouse gas reduction and emission trading scheme proposals. we will continue the integrated approach from the january package to ensure consistency between renewable energy and climate change policies, and create synergies between them. now i would like to turn to some concrete points of this report to discuss them in more detail. i share your view that the completion of the internal energy market is a very important issue in our energy policy, and it is indispensable that renewables are rapidly integrated into the internal energy market. that is one of the reasons why the commission adopted the third internal market package on wednesday. access to the grids is an essential precondition for the successful integration and expansion of electricity generation from renewable energy sources, as well as objective, transparent and non-discriminatory authorisation procedures. you rightly pointed out the importance of reaching an agreement soon on assigning a share to each member state to achieve the 20% binding target for the whole eu in 2020. as you would expect, the methodology to be applied is quite a politically sensitive issue. we are currently working on the proposal and the commission is discussing this topic with member states. it is vital that the national targets are established in a fair and transparent way. but just as important is the establishment of a trading scheme which can give the needed flexibility, and to ensure that this will work in an eu-wide market. this will also contribute to our goal of producing renewable energy cost effectively. i agree with you on the importance of creating and implementing national action plans. national action plans submitted by each member state and approved by the commission should contain the national sectoral targets, the development paths in each sector and measures to be taken in order to reach these targets. the commission will assess the national action plans based on specific requirements and criteria laid down in a new directive. i agree that renewable energy sources in the heating and cooling sector have to experience a significant growth, and this has to be ensured by the legislative framework. the intention is to cover this sector in the directive as well. many heating and cooling renewable technologies are highly economical and there is a lot of potential in this area. i welcome the support of your report on the minimum 10% biofuels binding target. i agree with you that we have to ensure that biofuels are produced in a sustainable way. the commission will include measures on biofuel sustainability in its proposal. these measures are not aimed at limiting biofuel imports, but the standards would apply equally to domestically produced biofuels and imports as well. to sum up, the new legislative framework on renewable energy sources should ensure that we reach the eu-wide target of 20% by 2020. this will require serious investments to be made, a regulatory framework and, most of all, strong political will. i believe that this report gives us confidence in it. i would like to come to the last point. there have been doubts expressed that the commission intends to let nuclear energy count towards the renewables target. can i say clearly that this is not, and never has been, the case. the 20% target of the renewable energy in the final eu energy consumption will only be met by renewable energy. nothing in the internal market package adopted last week, or the forthcoming directive on renewable energy, changes this. honourable members, you have been our strong support in creating a european response to the global energy challenge. i count also on the support of the european parliament for the legislative proposal of the commission. but i get more and more encouragement coming from member states. today, gordon brown, at the labour party conference, said, ‘by investing in energy efficiency, renewables, carbon capture, clean fuels and new environmental technologies, i want britain to lead in carbon-free vehicles, carbon-free homes and carbon-free industry. and i want the new green technologies of the future to be the source of british jobs in british businesses.’ the only difference is that i want it to happen in the whole of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs thomsen for her report and commissioner piebalgs, because i believe that an alliance between parliament and the commission is really possible. in this respect, i believe that parliament has already made a fundamental contribution to the promotion of renewable energy, with a vision of the future and the use of renewable energy precisely to tackle the major problems that lie ahead. so, an effort of this magnitude must have a general consensus and we can start with a certain degree of gradualness, because i think that we need a system policy to be able to apply the different renewable energies to the system as a whole. first of all, i would like to point out that the envi committee also had a very thorough discussion on biomass and the importance of a gradual approach, first of all in the use of agricultural, forestry and municipal solid waste, because they can be exploited to a great advantage without upsetting the balance between energy, food and raw materials. that is why what we have before us is an extremely important task, not an impossible challenge. the system will also have to lead to a general improvement, i am referring here in particular to heating, cogeneration and trigeneration, in order to achieve full exploitation of the energy content of resources, and to a whole policy which will be necessary to support and give priority to the supply of electricity produced from renewable sources, and so that the conversion of biomass to gas can also be encouraged, so as to allow for much greater rationalizations and efficiencies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report now before us is a compromise at third reading and can be largely described as a victory for the european parliament over the council, over the member states which often overprotect their secluded national railway administrations. the three rapporteurs jarzembowski, savary and sterckx deserve a compliment for this. they have succeeded in incorporating into the final document, in negotiations with the council and the commission, many of the demands made by parliament at first and second reading. passengers on european railways will now have stronger rights nationally and across borders. as a frequent rail user, especially in italy, i am glad and hope that trenitalia will also have to adopt european standards. i would like to give a small example to illustrate that the italian railways are far from being as customer-friendly as mr rack described earlier, when he said that a lot had already improved. in a railway station with a catchment area of 20 000 inhabitants and almost twice as many tourists in high season, there was a railway switchboard open all the time and staffed by officials until about 20 years ago. meanwhile, not only has this ticket office been closed, but all personnel have been removed from the station. in a very poorly maintained room there is a ticket machine. this one was out of commission for weeks last summer. a note was pasted on it, expressing regret at this non-functioning. but railway customers were urged to board the train with valid passes. with such a service at railway stations, it is incomprehensible that you cannot buy a ticket on the train as in other countries. in italy, on the other hand, anyone caught without a ticket has recently been fined 50 euros. i hope and wish that such and similar abuses on the italian railways will soon be a thing of the past. i could give many more examples, especially of information not working. i hope in particular that the swiss federal railways will serve as an example. there the train user is really a passenger, a customer whom the railway administration is trying to serve, not a nuisance to the public, often seen as a nuisance to the railway.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, china knew and knows that many of its products, not just toys, are dangerous. china has repeatedly assured that the vast majority of its exports comply with european standards, but consumers have little confidence in chinese products. the commission's 2006 harmful products report shows an increase in dangerous goods infringements, from toys to hair dryers to lighters. toys are the most irregular products and china is the country of origin with the most infringements. commissioner kuneva warned that if china does not respond to the union's demands, the next step will be to ban the import of certain chinese products. i believe that customs barriers must be lifted because the union must not only defend consumers, not only its industry, not only assert free competition through equal opportunities for market access, but also take action for social and environmental reasons against the highly speculative production of chinese industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years there has been a purely ideological approach to the so-called freedom of trade as the only dogma of liberal globalisation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. is there a problem with china? i did! it's about the warranty rules that have to be respected. we are thinking of an effective guarantee mark in addition to the ce mark and, for products coming from outside europe, also of the possibility of a mark of recognition, the so-called 'made in'. but there is also a problem with western multinationals that manufacture in china or elsewhere and that have, even in the case of toys, great responsibilities for safety and control; there is also the problem that products declared as made in europe must actually be made in europe. we cannot ask china to respect labour rights and environmental standards, as is necessary, and then actually prevent this from happening through the responsibility of our multinationals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of mr jarzembowski's report, partly because i hope that our excellent rapporteur will listen to the pensioners who, in rome, when they heard that this report was being voted on, said to me, starting from strasbourg: "but fatuzzo, you haven't made any statements of vote for a long time! we would like you to tell the european parliament, even if when you speak they all go out thinking about their own business and gossiping, i would like you to tell the president who is listening to you carefully, that they should finally get the free movement cards throughout europe, for pensioners who want to see europe with their own eyes after having built it up over so many years of work".
in writing. i have expressed my support for the thomsen report which stresses the need to obtain 20% of energy from renewable sources by 2020. this will be a great challenge for every european country, which can no longer be avoided and left to the most virtuous and farsighted member states. i believe that differentiated national targets should be set, equitably distributed in relation to the existing level of renewable energy, with regard to the energy mix and the different development potential due to the different climatic, geological and territorial conditions of the member states. renewable energy is the future. the investment in innovation and technology will have to be massive if europe is to overcome its energy dependence within a reasonable timeframe and at affordable prices for the consumer. i think, however, that we must be realistic and avoid falling into hypocrisy. it is unrealistic to think that renewable energy production alone will enable us to achieve such ambitious targets, despite the preconceptions and often ideological arguments of certain leftists and greens who would have us believe otherwise. what can save europe in the medium term is an energy mix that also includes non-purely renewable energy sources such as nuclear, which, whether we like it or not, accounts for a third of electricity production in europe. (the text of the explanation of vote was withdrawn pursuant to rule 163)
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the statements which the presidency has been making to this parliament for the last year - if we were a parliament like the british parliament or the american parliament, for example - would sound like an insult to parliament, as well as to the truth. no, mr president-in-office of the council, i think you are misinformed by the apparatus and the structure behind you at the moment, which has been carrying out an unworthy and incomprehensible action since 1994, for which the successive six-monthly presidencies are responsible, and which they are able to hold accountable! in 1994, we were on the verge of winning! we lost by eight votes because 20 european countries abstained by consensus, all of them now members of the european union. the universal moratorium could be proclaimed in the world, without the shame that we must not remove! 20 european abstentions in 1994 with a council that is absolutely and hypocritically complicit! you, mr president-in-office, had the impudence to say in 1999 - according to all the european ambassadors we had won because there was an overwhelming majority - that on the morning of the vote a telegram came from brussels saying that we should withdraw. it's inexplicable! in 2003, the italian foreign minister, at the council presidency, said that because of the lack of agreement from the european union, italy was not going to pursue that resolution on which we again had a majority. and now it's more scandalous! but you, mr president, do you realize that? in what country can we tell such a lie? you say that 173 out of 192 member states have abolished the death penalty in fact and in law. and all this hard work! you should have presented it in the 61st parliament, the previous one, you should have presented it at the beginning of this one, yesterday, and already today the news we have from new york is of further postponements. then she also told another small or big lie: it is true that 95 countries have signed a declaration, and that we already had as the italian government, on december 28, 85 signatories and those that you have made together we have made only 11. so if you guys want to lose, go ahead, but it's a mess, we'll do... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to continue along the lines laid down by mr pannella and ask the presidency to give some answers, if possible. i would like to know why the presidency has withdrawn the request or the proposal to establish a european day against the death penalty. there is nowhere in the text that this is a decision that must be taken unanimously. if you could quote an article where this is provided for, i would be grateful. however, given this political cooperation, i am absolutely convinced that if you had wanted to, you could have forced a vote and had an overwhelming majority, minus one. i think this would have been a great day for europe! so, missed opportunity! secondly, i too have many doubts, mr president, about your reconstruction of the sad history of the various tabling and withdrawals of the moratorium resolutions. i would like you to answer a specific question: i would like to know when you will be presenting the resolution, since you, as the portuguese presidency, have decided to lead the way practically by yourself, excluding other countries, including my own - but that is not a problem here - from the un negotiations. because it is still unclear and if you present it too late it will be of absolutely no use. thirdly, you said two things that have me a little concerned. i was up in my room because i was having some trouble, but i heard it in the original in your wonderful language. you said that we must be flexible and that we must leave room for manoeuvre, which worried me very much. what does that mean? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. what is even more worrying is that it is precisely because of this false dichotomy that we have lost so far. so i would like you to give us some concrete answers and i hope that those answers will come.
i was lost listening to frassoni, whose questions and passion i fully share, but i also share what mr pannella said. and let me say that i am really sad today, hearing szymański's speech really distressed me. the idea that the europe for which we have fought, struggled and believed has these reservations, these positions, is truly sad for all of us. but i am also sad today because a great man died in gaza, a historical palestinian figure, he died of cancer, he could not be treated, gaza is under siege, he would probably have died anyway, because he was very old. he was a man who believed deeply in peace, in democracy, in a democracy and in a secular palestine without violence. his name was haider abdel shafi and i want to honor him here, because there are so many death sentences in the world, that we have to fight against. but i also agree with what the other members said. the session has opened and i hope that on the 28th, when the portuguese presidency and the italian government meet with everyone, they will really decide that the resolution in favour of a universal moratorium on the death penalty should be tabled. it is true that over the past 14 years the resolution has been compromised by errors and delays, if not outright obstructive behaviour. this time we can and we must. italy, together with europe, will build a network of alliances on all continents. the vast majority of the international community supports this resolution, while the number of states supporting capital punishment has decreased. and certainly the dichotomy between moratorium and abolition of the death penalty must not be used. we are for the abolition of the death penalty, but today it is the moratorium that can unite and win! we know that it is difficult, we know that it is not a given and we see it in the positions, not only in poland but also among citizens around the world, political leaders in europe who call for the death penalty. but if our perspective of international relations is based on the ethics of values, where human life and justice and rights are valued, we must win! so the next few weeks will be decisive and indeed, the moratorium is a key step in the international community's rejection of this barbaric practice that substitutes revenge for justice. we must do it and we must isolate the voices that say no!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time this year that the european parliament has returned to the subject of the moratorium. we believe that this objective can be achieved within the year, and we therefore urge the portuguese presidency to submit the text to the competent united nations committee in the next few hours. we ask that this be done in close cooperation with italy, the country which initiated the campaign, involving not only the countries of the union but also all those who have shown their willingness to be co-sponsors and co-authors. i would also like to make it clear once again that the objective of the moratorium is not in conflict with the more general objective of abolition, and yet it is the moratorium that we want to achieve today, also as a first concrete step towards abolition. all this cannot be used to muddy the waters! finally, i join my colleagues in expressing disbelief that a major european country such as poland has decided not to declare 10 october as the european day against the death penalty and that this day has been suspended as a result. we ask you, mr president of parliament, mr president of the council, not to give up this objective. i would like to ask you not to waste the little bit of spirit we have managed to put into a europe still too marked by economism, mercantilism and monetarism.
i asked a very specific question. i would like to know on what article the presidency based its claim that unanimity is required for such matters as, for example, deciding on the day of the death penalty and why it did not force a vote in the council. i would like to know why the president did not mention this point which all the speakers have mentioned.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in its report on policy strategies for 2007, the european parliament expressed scepticism about the european institute of technology, stressing the risk of overlapping with existing structures and fearing that it could compete with already limited research funding. there is certainly a need to improve community efforts in research, innovation and education, to create public-private partnerships and, above all, to facilitate access to new knowledge for small and mediumsized enterprises. however, it is not possible to ignore the hasty way in which the institute is presented, which has long-term repercussions, especially in view of the simultaneous launch of new strategic instruments such as the european research council. it should also be noted that the financial allocation for the seventh framework programme was reduced by 30% following the agreement on the financial perspective. given the limited funding for research at european level, it is necessary to ensure that the european institute of technology does not attract resources that would otherwise be allocated to other activities in the field. the financing must be added as a complement to the current financial perspective and new resources must come from a variety of sources, community, national, regional and private. firstly, a transparent selection procedure for the steering committee should be ensured, in which the commission is called upon to report to the other institutions as appropriate. in addition, the european parliament and the council must be given the opportunity to express their consent to the strategic priorities of the european institute of technology before final approval by the commission. finally, the european parliament and the court of auditors must have full visibility into the institute's budgets. i believe that only after a thorough review of a pilot programme on the basis of an independent external evaluation will it be possible to determine whether it is appropriate to establish the european institute of technology as a permanent community body or whether europe could gain more by directing funding towards other community research and development activities.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by mr jacek saryusz-wolski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on a common european energy policy (2007/2000) (a6-0312/2007).
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the depletion of fossil fuels and the changes in the geopolitical situation have put energy security at the top of the political agenda of the european union. the european union's growing dependence on external energy supplies, mainly from unstable countries, raises concerns for the economic and political interests of the member states as well as for the overall security of the union. however, i do not believe that we can meet these challenges and difficulties by increasing production and supply from abroad alone, but rather we must look within europe for the answer to energy demand. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the opportunity to present its opinion on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. as energy production and consumption are the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions, an integrated approach to environment and energy is needed to achieve the objectives of a sustainable energy policy. the fight against climate change must not therefore be confined to environmental policies, but must be at the heart of the european union's policies, both internal and trade. for example, with regard to biofuels, it is essential that the european union verifies that such use does not threaten global food security and does not put pressure on the economy of the global south to expand monoculture and deforestation. support for the development and use of renewables can ensure a fair transfer of technologies to third countries and bring benefits in terms of european leadership in the development of international markets. that is why the proposal for an energy partnership with africa is important, to which must be added a similar partnership with china and india, given the growth of these countries. the achievement of the millennium development goals for developing countries is a priority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur i share the need and the importance of aligning foreign policy on energy policy. i hope that it will not be necessary to stress how much a proper coherence between the two policies, which would both be strengthened by a common strategy, would bring economic growth and welfare for european citizens, as well as greater political stability at world level with a likely knock-on effect on the major european partners. however, the priority must not be limited to security of supply, but must also be to a sustainable and efficient energy policy, which will make europe progressively self-sufficient in this area and thus independent of external pressures which can affect, sometimes severely, the eu's commitment to promoting democracy, human rights and peace. an efficient common policy cannot do without more resources for research into renewable energy sources as well as investment in nuclear energy. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the services provided by the european union. if we also have the political will, we can turn europe's energy emergency into a unique opportunity: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world economy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the proposal for a council regulation, for examination by the committee on agriculture and rural development, derogating from regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers as regards set-aside for 2008 (com (2007) 0523 - c6-0302/2007 - 2007/0194 (cns)).
i believe that parliament must take this as a new element and that it opens up a new way of thinking and a new debate on agricultural production in our europe. the point is not just that we have had a change in climate and that in some areas of the country we have had difficulties in production. the point is that it is changing the overall system of agricultural production on the ground because, and we have had some echoes of this in the previous discussion, much production today goes into other production systems, as has been mentioned. the point is that today we must review the policy which the european community has been pursuing in recent years with regard to agricultural production. we will not only have a problem with cereals, but in a few months' time we will have a problem with meat production, with milk production, because there are already changes in production and declines in production on this land. i think that the commissioner and the commission must give careful thought to this and enable parliament to give a definitive answer to these problems in order to avoid what is happening: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of food waste.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european union continues to face significant challenges in responding to the changing situation in the area of migration. the comprehensive approach to migration adopted by the european council in december 2005 remains the essential framework for defining responses to these challenges. in adopting the comprehensive approach, the european council stressed the need for a balanced, comprehensive and coherent approach covering policies to combat illegal immigration and, in cooperation with third states, to enhance the benefits of legal immigration. the implementation of the global approach has been a key priority of successive presidencies. the overall approach to migration has not remained static, but has been refined and developed by the european council in the light of developments and progress in its implementation, and is integrated into the overall migration policy of the european union. at its meeting on 21 and 22 june, the european council endorsed conclusions on enlargement and the strengthening of the global approach. these conclusions provide in particular for the application of the global approach to the border regions to the east and south-east of the union and for the development of partnerships between the european union and third countries in the field of so-called circular migration and mobility. the importance of implementing the global approach was underlined by events during the summer and, in particular, by the incidents at the southern maritime borders of the union. continuing to apply the comprehensive approach, the measures to be taken should encompass both measures to combat illegal immigration and to develop opportunities for legal immigration. the council has made efforts to pursue these two inseparable objectives. at its june meeting the council discussed the situation at the southern mediterranean borders. the council reaffirmed the importance of the role to be played by frontex and decided to carry out further work in the light of suggestions made by malta. this work was carried out and led to the adoption of council conclusions on strengthening the management of the union's southern maritime borders at the council meeting on 18 september. some of these conclusions imply urgent action which is oriented towards existing measures and possibilities. member states are encouraged to provide support on a bilateral basis to member states facing particular pressure in terms of illegal immigration due to their geographical situation and the degree of cooperation with neighbouring third countries. this cooperation will focus, for example, on return operations, reception conditions, responsibilities for asylum seekers, refugees and minors. the conclusions also stress the need to strengthen cooperation in this area with third countries of origin and transit, in particular with regard to the management of their own borders, the commitment to assume their responsibilities in search and rescue operations, the fight against trafficking and smuggling of human beings and the creation of an effective framework for returns. the need for close cooperation with international organisations such as unhcr and iom is emphasised. another important element is the intention to strengthen frontex's activities, in particular by creating longer-term joint operations and extending activities within the framework of the european patrol network. as regards longer-term measures, the council invited the commission to submit to it a report on possible additional measures, including an in-depth analysis of certain proposals submitted by malta, a study of the relevant parts of the law of the sea and to consider the establishment of specialised teams on asylum in the context of the ongoing debate on the commission's green paper on the common european asylum system. frontex plays an increasingly important role in the effectiveness of member states' control of the external borders of the union. frontex, as you know, only started its operational activities in october 2005, but in the relatively short time since then it has developed its operational capabilities and implemented important initiatives to strengthen the security of the external borders of the european union, focusing in particular on the fight against illegal immigration. several joint operations coordinated by frontex have been carried out and others are under way in the atlantic and the mediterranean. of particular importance was the launch in may of this year of the european patrol network which, in the long term, will integrate the future european surveillance system. another significant development was the adoption by the council in july of this year and the entry into force on 20 august of the regulation on the mechanism for the creation of rapid border intervention teams, the so-called rabbit. the regulation allows for the provision of rapid operational assistance for a limited period of time to a member state which requests it in the face of an urgent and exceptional pressure situation, in particular due to the arrival of a large number of third-country nationals at external border crossing points in order to enter the european union illegally. frontex is currently in the process of implementing this regulation. the availability of appropriate equipment is of paramount importance for the effectiveness of the activities coordinated by frontex. frontex, in accordance with the frontex regulation, has set up a centralised register of available technical equipment, called crate. this register already contains an extensive list of helicopters, aircraft, vessels and other equipment that member states are willing to make available for the purposes of activities coordinated by frontex. in terms of legislative measures to combat illegal immigration, the competent council bodies have already started to examine the proposal for a parliament and council directive laying down sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals. this proposal, which aims to combat illegal work as a factor of attraction for illegal immigration, was presented by the commission in may 2007. in the context of the co-decision procedure and with a view to reaching an agreement quickly, the council also attaches high priority to the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on common rules and procedures in member states for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, which is currently being examined by the competent council bodies. in the context of readmission policy, it should be noted that following the entry into force in june of the readmission agreement with russia, the decision on the signing of the readmission agreement with ukraine has already been adopted and a number of readmission agreements have been signed with the western balkan states and moldova. all these agreements will be concluded after the european parliament has delivered its opinion. a few words about the action programme on legal immigration. as is well known, the council and the portuguese presidency also give priority to the promotion of legal immigration. a high-level conference on legal immigration was organised in lisbon on 13 and 14 september by the presidency and brought together ministers, senior officials and academics, as well as representatives of this parliament and the commission. this conference addressed issues related to legal immigration, such as channels of legal immigration and management of migration flows, integration and the lisbon agenda, and migration and development. the results of this conference will provide a very important guide for our work in the months ahead. the council will also shortly begin work on the proposals for a framework directive on the rights of migrants legally residing in a member state to pursue an economic activity and creating a single residence permit and a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of highly qualified workers which we hope the commission will present in the coming weeks. these two proposals, together with others to be presented over the next few years, follow on from the action plan on legal immigration presented by the commission in january 2006. the council has already started to examine the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/109 in order to extend its scope to beneficiaries of international protection. the proposal is designed to extend the possibility of obtaining long-term resident status to beneficiaries of international protection. the council is awaiting parliament's opinion in order to adopt the draft instrument as soon as possible. on external relations in the area of migration, i would like to inform you that the council has actively pursued the implementation of the comprehensive approach to migration also defined by the european council in its conclusions of december 2005 and 2006. attention was also drawn to the conclusions on enlargement and strengthening the global approach to migration adopted by the council in june. in december 2006, the european council invited the commission to make proposals on how to apply the comprehensive approach to the regions bordering the eastern and south-eastern borders of the european union, to propose ways to integrate legal immigration opportunities into the union's external policies in order to develop a balanced partnership with third countries adapted to the specific labour market needs of the member states, and to suggest ways and means to facilitate circular and temporary migration, and to make detailed proposals on how best to organise and provide information on the various forms of legal movement between the european union and third countries. the commission submitted two communications in response to these calls and the presidency, following the adoption of these commission communications, submitted draft conclusions to the council to take forward work on the actions envisaged by the commission. the euromed ministerial meeting on migration will be held in november this year. the conference aims to develop initiatives and actions to implement migration-related issues. in addition, special attention was also given to africa by continuing and intensifying the dialogue on migration-related issues initiated in 2005 with african countries. priority was also given to the follow-up to the ministerial conferences on migration and development held in rabat in july 2006 and tripoli in november 2006. the ministerial conferences, the first at regional level and the second at continental level, identified a number of areas where cooperation between the countries of origin, transit and destination of migrants could be strengthened. the council is actively working on this matter with a view to translating into concrete action the joint programmes agreed in rabat and tripoli.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the council representative for his speech, which outlined the broad guidelines of our joint action, and i should like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr gruber and mr moreno sánchez, in particular, for the two reports which we are discussing and commenting on today. the first reflection, of course, is how far europe has come in such a short time, so a word of optimism. everyone will remember that until the hampton court summit in october 2005, there was even doubt that europe could have a common strategy on immigration. today, not only is this the watchword for all of us, but we are already implementing some initiatives that have been decided upon and have begun to bear some significant fruit. this is a fact which shows that not only is europe needed to manage the great global and unstoppable phenomenon of migration, but that national action by the member states is no longer sufficient. and how europe's action is beneficial for europe itself, for the member states and for all our interlocutors, all our partners, both in the southern dimension, and therefore first of all the african countries, and our eastern neighbours, because, as i have said, the commission has proposed and the council has fully agreed to extend the global approach to the eastern dimension, that is to say to the migratory flows coming from the east. we are always talking about a global approach, which, as we now know, means linking the external dimension to internal immigration policies in an absolutely inextricable way. we cannot deal with just managing migration within the territory, we have to deal with what we call the deep roots that lead to migration that is still, for the most part, made up of desperate people who are fleeing sometimes persecution, sometimes poverty, sometimes wars, and who have no choice but to leave their homeland or stay. he must leave his homeland to survive. it is therefore clear that the deep roots of immigration cannot be tackled, not even with a security approach alone, with the mediterranean patrols which have been and will be an essential instrument in protecting the area around the canary islands. this is not the only thing that can or cannot be our strategy, and we must certainly take up a need that the member states of the european union have: that's one of the reasons, and one of the best ways, to fight illegal immigration. the more we have the capacity to govern economic immigration, which is necessary, the more we will reduce that dark gray area of illegal immigration. that is why i am starting my reflections with legal immigration, which we discussed in lisbon a few days ago, at an important meeting. we have talked about prospects and i have got the impression, which i hope this parliament will confirm, that there is a positive political moment to deal with economic immigration in a non-ideological way. i 'll say it plainly . i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european social fund, and whether he has not made a statement on the subject of the european social fund. some observers and even some important news articles said: "we are ready to welcome 20 million legal immigrants". these figures are downright dangerous. it's one thing to point to a sure demographic trend: europe is ageing, the number of european workers will decline due to demographic decline; it's another thing to imagine now the numbers that 50 years from now might be the answer. so we're governing this phenomenon with all its components, the first of the components is the demographic decline of europe. but the second component is to implement the objectives of the lisbon strategy in terms of competitiveness and attractiveness of the european economy. this requires manpower in all those sectors which today seem, so to speak, to have been somewhat neglected by many of our fellow europeans. but the third factor is that immigration cannot be the only solution to population decline. we must not forget, for example, that while we are talking about immigration from non-community countries, we still maintain barriers to the free movement of community workers. there are fellow europeans who do not have full freedom to work in all the other countries of the union. this is called 'community preference' in technical jargon, but we must explain it in terms of political action, not in terms of bureaucratic phraseology. it means that europe will truly be the territory of labour mobility when the barriers to the movement of our fellow workers, and i am speaking of course of the new member states, have been removed. so, that's another component we have to consider. and the fourth component is that we look at the demographic decline as a factor that we should not give up on, saying so much that there are workers coming from africa. we must be concerned about our demographic decline as much as our future. and that is why, for example, measures to help the family and the birth of us europeans are just as important in this context as governing the phenomena of immigration from outside europe. to do all this it is clear that we are taking some initiatives, some have already been taken in the area of immigration. i can tell you that we are launching the call for tenders for the european immigration portal. this call for tenders, i hope, will be exhausted in a few months, allowing for bureaucratic procedures, and allowing us to have a portal, the first unified portal in europe on immigration. opportunities, supply of work, demand for work, sectors concerned with demand for work, etc. etc. a portal which will, frankly, bring great wealth to our europe in this field. the european integration fund is finally a reality. we've discussed it before, you've shared it. i must say frankly that the council has reduced it a little economically compared to the proposal i made at the beginning, but that is a first reality. almost a billion euros to deal with this major component of the migration strategy. there is no immigration if there is no integration. today we have a european fund, it is a reality. we are financing language and vocational training courses in the countries of origin. this is another precondition for governing economic immigration: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. i mean, they're destined for a social isolation that we don't want. we are already financing initiatives in this field as the european union. as you probably know, in a few days' time the commission will be adopting two legislative initiatives on my proposal. the council representative has spoken about it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. how many engineers are needed in italy or how many doctors are needed in belgium; the governments and the labour markets of the countries concerned will decide this together. but we are interested in making europe more attractive than competitors such as the united states, canada and australia, which attract 95% of non-european workers, i.e. from african or asian countries, when we are able to attract only 5% as europe as a whole. that's too low! the idea of a european blue card for work is this: the european union has a long history of supporting the right of workers to move freely within the european union, and the right of workers to return to their home countries if they wish, and to return to europe again if they wish, after a certain period of time. a circular migration that also prevents the permanent flight of brains from their countries of origin. the second directive, on the common rights of economic immigrants, will certainly be an equally important directive. for the first time, we'll have work permit and residence permit in one document. you go in to work; so the principle that an economic immigrant, i'm not talking about asylum seekers, of course, family reunification, i'm talking about those who come in to work, there can be no separation between residence and work and there has to be transparency in this kind of documentation. and it is clear that this will open up a harmonization of rights. there are member states where the right to medical care is not fully guaranteed, and others where it is. and it is clear that the proposal which the commission will put to the council and parliament will leave member states free to go beyond this level, if, for example, more favourable national schemes already exist. it is clear that we do not ask the more virtuous country to lower the level of rights, but we say that the less virtuous countries must raise the level of social rights, education, medical care, etc. in 2008 i will make proposals for other categories of migrant workers: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, such as the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people, the introduction of a new system of social security for unemployed people. if, for example, a company has offices in several european cities, facilitate this movement within the same company without starting from scratch in all countries. and then, of course, there will be the unskilled worker. the largest category, for which considerable further study is required. rather than formulating a legislative proposal there, i prefer to put forward options - which will be done early next year - of open proposals, and then gather comments and suggestions to formulate the best proposal. we are not talking about a very limited number of people, but about the vast majority of those who come without any vocational training. there are many components that need to be addressed. it is clear that a central aspect - and i quote mr gruber's report - is cooperation with the countries of origin to prevent the brain drain. this is something that is particularly close to my heart, and i have already said that the idea of circular immigration is aimed at this: to avoid permanently draining energy. but there is a collaboration with some countries in sub-saharan africa, for example, that has already started, precisely to evaluate how to use the best professionals, who work for a certain period of time in europe, when they return home and can be employed and used for the benefit of their home country. it is an open dialogue which i intend to pursue very vigorously in the coming months, also thanks to the great support which i must say the past presidencies, the present presidency and the portuguese presidency are giving. we have a great opportunity for that. we have the opportunity of the two ministerial summits; the european council in madrid in december last year was a very important meeting for the european union. the other is the summit of european and african heads of government. i believe and hope that this summit will bring us a step forward, because it is clear that i expect the heads of government at this summit to adopt a real declaration of partnership between europe and africa on immigration, mobility and work. i think that if that happens, we will have made a great step forward, not least because on the proposal which we discussed with the german presidency, with the minister of labour and with the minister of the interior of the federal republic of germany, we have now agreed with the portuguese presidency the first joint council of ministers of the interior and of ministers of labour: for the first time, at the beginning of december, there will be tangible political action that brings together the different components of the migration strategy, not just the security one, but i would say the economic and labour component which for all the reasons already mentioned is extremely important. another point concerns cooperation agreements with the countries of origin. this is an action which the commission has begun to carry out on an experimental basis with a number of countries. we have, in short, identified country profiles; every country is different, we cannot manage the flow of migration from mali as we do with senegal. each country has its own profile and must be regarded as such. after we do that, we offer partnership opportunities, a comprehensive agreement. we simply called them cooperation plattforms; we called them agreements with a platform of topics to find agreement on: the european union is committed to the fight against trafficking in human beings, because trafficking in human beings begins in the country of origin, and then to eradicate the corruption that protects this trafficking in human beings, to govern employment opportunities by informing and training in the professional and linguistic fields. we have opened the first job centre in bamako, which is a city, the capital of mali with european funding. and we said that we would provide information in that centre, and we are already doing so, on european laws, on employment and training opportunities, and therefore on training courses. it is the first country that has shown interest in us and with this country we have already carried out this initiative. we want to do the same with other countries that ask us. on the integration of the in short, integration is an essential part of immigration policy, and the fund should of course be used for all those policies which serve the social inclusion of those who respect our rules. finally, illegal immigration is part of our political strategy and i know, and i am pleased that the libe committee has approved mr weber's report on the european return policy, we will discuss this in the future, but it is equally important. illegal immigration means: not to encourage undeclared work which is a source of attraction for illegal work. you know that there is a growing percentage of immigrants who are becoming unemployed in europe. this is a matter of great concern to us. a first phase has given many people jobs, seasonal jobs, agriculture, tourism, public works, now there is a negative flow of rising unemployment. what are we going to do about these people who are unemployed? so we do not encourage illegal work, we sanction businessmen who take advantage of illegal immigrants, we guarantee a return policy which respects the fundamental rights of people, but also very clear and very firm about our objectives. we cannot tolerate illegality and the repetition of illegality. the european agency frontex has helped stop thousands of illegal immigrants. it has saved, this summer alone, over 1200 people who would have died and we have to thank the operators of the ships, the planes, the helicopters, the frontex missions that have saved over 1200 people, this summer alone, who would otherwise have disappeared as many as have disappeared. but it also reduced the flow of illegal immigrants into the patrol areas. so frontex has been, is and will be an essential tool in this global approach. i conclude, madam president, by saying that we will have to work on immigration for the next decades and not for the next few months. so it is good that europe is aware that it has an extraordinary opportunity to be an actor on the international stage in this too.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is therefore neither an emergency nor a transitory phenomenon. in 2006, the number of migrants in the eu-27 was 18.5 million. the causes, as you know, are many: wars, poverty, environmental disasters, brutal dictatorships in many parts of the world. the european union is one of the major global players and must therefore break the deadlock and define structural policies to tackle this challenge that concerns us all: we're not going anywhere alone! much has been done in the fight against illegal immigration, but it is not enough. the fight against illegal immigration starts with opening legal channels into the european union: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our economies could no longer function without immigrant workers and without their social security contributions our welfare system is destined to be paralysed, threatened as it is by the sharp decline in population. eurostat is clear: in 2050, one third of the 490 million europeans will be over 65. the commission's 2005 action plan was an important step forward because it re-launched concrete proposals to open up legal immigration channels in a uniform way at union level, although the responsibility for setting entry quotas remains with the individual member states. of the five directives that you, commissioner frattini, will be proposing in the coming months, our priority remains the one that first of all guarantees a common framework of rights for migrants. i wish you well, because we know that the negotiations in the council will certainly not be easy, but parliament will not fail to support you. that is why we must ensure codecision and abolish the right of veto in the council. my report was adopted unanimously, with one vote against, in the libe committee and i thank them very much for the excellent cooperation with my colleagues from the other groups. in the report we ask for harmonised and reliable statistical data at european level. you cannot legislate on immigration without knowing its real scope, without certain numbers it becomes an easy propaganda tool. this phenomenon must be tackled without demagoguery, without populism, without taboos. i therefore believe that it is essential for politicians and journalists to take greater responsibility when dealing with such a sensitive subject, both of which, as you know, play a central role in the process of integration. integration is a two-way process of rights and duties on both sides and cannot be separated from the active participation of immigrants in the economic, social and political life of the host country. i agree with you, commissioner frattini, when you speak of the principle of equal treatment for socioeconomic rights, because the right to equal pay, to job security but also to recognition of qualifications, the right to the transferability of pension rights, family reunification, guaranteeing women a legal status independent of their spouse, are fundamental. the directive on highly qualified workers, the so-called blue card, can be a very good attraction for professionals that europe needs very much. a few more details, commissioner frattini, would be very helpful to us in this blue card, but in any case, as you have mentioned, only 5% of workers in europe today are highly qualified, compared with 85% of unskilled workers. for this last group of workers the seasonal workers directive will have to fill a gap in rights and i believe that those of them who respect the rules should be offered the possibility of priority access to other forms of temporary and permanent immigration. but, commissioner frattini, open proposals, options, as you have called them, on low-skilled or unskilled migrants are welcome. but how long will we have to wait, and i am addressing this to the council in particular, before we have a directive on this matter? we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. the fears and uncertainties of our increasingly restless societies are being met by responsible policy. there are no sealed borders and we are not invaded by immigrants! immigration is a necessity and if it is managed seriously it can become a wealth in a civil society that respects differences. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their work, which has been valuable and extremely accurate. i'd like to start with an image that we've all been carrying around for several months: it's a picture of 40 shipwrecked people who were hung for two days and two nights in the middle of the mediterranean from a tuna net. in that case, saving the fisheries seemed more important than saving the lives of those desperate people who were not picked up on board that fishing vessel that had crossed them. i say this because, as the commissioner pointed out, a global but different approach to immigration is needed. an approach that can bring together balance, solidarity and - as mrs gruber said - no taboos. immigration cannot be seen as a security issue only. it is a necessary challenge for europe, a factor of integration and social change with which we must confront ourselves. the commissioner frattini said that europe was needed. we're in agreement. europe is needed, provided it is able to take up this issue in its complexity. i should like to recall, in the few seconds i have left, the three fundamental principles which are contained in these two reports. the most effective way of curbing illegal immigration is to open channels of legal immigration, provided there is reciprocity of rights and obligations for immigrants and for the countries that receive them. on illegal immigration: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. at the same time, as has been pointed out by many colleagues, illegal immigration must be combated by creating conditions in the countries of origin to solve the causes of the deep despair from which these people are fleeing, the deep roots of which commissioner frattini spoke. finally, mr president, respect for human rights remains a necessary reference point for our policies. the process of european integration will only have strength and meaning if we can prevent europe from closing its doors to immigrants.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are several directives on legal immigration and others will be presented, but the real unsolved problem remains preventing illegal and uncontrolled immigration and defining and guaranteeing in a unified way what is an indispensable prerequisite for civil coexistence and respect for the laws and rules in force in the countries of the union. i thank commissioner frattini for the proposals he has put to us. the problem, however, remains serious, since there are judgments by magistrates, i quote the cases in germany and italy, which have found that the parents of a girl who was segregated at home cannot be prosecuted or that the divorce petition of a woman who was repeatedly beaten by her husband is not relevant, since these facts, according to these magistrates, fell within the rules and traditions of the countries of origin of the immigrants. this is also important in the light of the draft treaty reform, which calls for the creation of a common immigration policy, but which is still to come, whereas we need a common policy immediately to curb illegal immigration. in february 2004 i was an opinion rapporteur on the frontex committee on foreign affairs, which was set up in 2004 and has been operational since 2005, but which still lacks sufficient resources and often does not have the means to control not only the official borders but also the borders, because it is the borders of our countries that need more control. to build a just society, without overt or underground conflicts, whose risks are obvious, including that of distorting our other identities, we need a strong policy to counter illegality! we call on the commission and the council not only to strengthen the control of the union's borders, but also to harmonize laws to punish human traffickers swiftly and decisively and to promote better agreements with the countries of origin of immigrants. defending human rights and the dignity of persons is the antithesis of weak policies that encourage dangerous terrorism and social unrest. we also remember that the lack of a common rule on the right of asylum makes the situation worse, but we do not see much activity on the part of the political groups.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini spoke today first of legal immigration and then of irregular immigration. if the policies of the european union were consistent with his words, i would agree with him, but unfortunately this is not the case. the european union's policies in recent years have first spoken the language of rejection, of the criminalization of migrants, of repressive policies, of agitation of the specter of invasion and now, finally, we are beginning to speak of policies for entry. we can therefore all agree that a legal immigration policy is essential to combat irregular immigration, essential to prevent human trafficking, to prevent the crossings of hope, to prevent the mediterranean from becoming more and more an open-air cemetery. but we should be consistent. so before proposing policies of rejection, we should discuss how to widen legal channels for entry, how to address the demographic challenge. i did not quite understand what commissioner frattini said today, if we are talking about journalistic indiscretions. in fact, 20 million immigrants by 2030 is a forecast that was made directly by the european commission in its green paper, when it explained to us that the demographic crisis in the european union requires us to have 20 million immigrants by 2030. but 20 million immigrants does not mean 20 million immigrants of only qualified people. we are doing the opposite, first we implement the policies of rejection, then we decide how to let in the skilled immigrants and finally we take care of the big problem that everyone else is. i think that the policies implemented in recent years should be carefully analysed and evaluated. an assessment should be made of what the policy of rejection will be; i think that in itself is a crime and a systematic violation of human rights. frontex's policies should also be analysed. this year we spent 45 million euros; frontex has 90 employees and has carried out four operations at sea this summer. i do not think we can be satisfied with the policy of frontex. a policy that has favoured rejection over rescue. and i conclude on this point: rescues have to be a priority. the commission, also at the request of the chairman of our group, was to report to us today on the case of the seven tunisian fishermen who were imprisoned in italy for having saved 44 migrants. i hope that commissioner frattini can shed some light on this matter, which is a consequence of the policies of criminalising immigration.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the quality of their work. promoting and regulating legal immigration is the only viable solution not only to combat crime linked to migration flows, but also to protect and guarantee the rights of individuals. like any other european citizen, immigrants will have to be integrated and integrated into their respective communities with the resulting rights and duties to be respected. a year ago i was rapporteur for the committee responsible for drawing up the report on the crossing of external borders and, as then, i stressed the importance for europe of ensuring, including adequate resources, decent reception centres, training for our staff, access to information for foreign nationals on their rights and obligations, severe penalties for those who exploit illegal immigration and, above all, maximum cooperation between the member states. after frontex has been set up, it is necessary to ensure that it is well-resourced and that other neighbouring countries affected by migratory flows are involved as actively as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot but acknowledge and thank vice-president frattini for having presented an action plan which finally represents an important avenue for debate and work on the future of legal immigration. as regards the report, i believe that it is a balanced text, the result of useful negotiations and important compromise amendments between the various political groups, which allow us to aim at widespread support for this text and thus to support as a parliament also the future work that the european commission will have to do on this subject. the position of the ppe group has been - and i would like to stress this - an important element of balance and concreteness in the definition of this report. the key points of our group's position on immigration have been confirmed. among these key points i would like to mention the commitment to a firm and decisive fight against illegal immigration, the support for a closer link between legal and illegal immigration and the search for more instruments of dialogue and integration for immigrants. the report is undoubtedly a report which, not for the sake of rhetoric, can be described as european. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, because it sees the phenomenon of immigration as something that must be tackled jointly, both in its positive and negative aspects, by all the european partners who must be in solidarity with each other and therefore tackle with the same degree of attention and determination also problems that affect more specific countries. the sinking of a boat of illegal immigrants at the ports of sicily or the canary islands, or elsewhere, must be a common problem. a policy of coordination of the phenomenon of immigration at european level is, to say the least, necessary. this report is intended to confirm this conviction, while clearly reaffirming the full respect for national competences in the management of quantitative aspects and immigration flows.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, president doyle has often warned against the dangers of easy regularization. the concrete results of frontex, which should be supported by other means, something is being done and results are being achieved. france's policy is moving in the right direction and could be an example. the commission has also taken some steps in the judicial system, for example in italy, where it is beginning to confiscate houses rented to illegal immigrants, which are concrete measures which should become measures of a european character. but from the left, we hear a sophisticated, surprising, statement from someone as intelligent as you: the european union is committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. quite the opposite! it is by breaking the bubble of clandestinity that the space opens up and also the acceptability and tolerability, even in numbers, of a regular, clean, transparent immigration. have you ever heard of the mafia? it's true that in your report there is no such word! there is no word terrorism, but the mafia and terrorism make money and gain weight on the deaths and trafficking of the poor illegal immigrants. you should understand that, too, it's not difficult!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon) the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has authorized me to make a very brief oral report because we verified at the sitting on 10 and 11 september last the 18 members of the bulgarian parliament, plus 7 others who were appointed by the competent national authorities for the resignations that took place, and we verified, with all the procedural documents and the minutes attached, that the declarations of incompatibility are perfect, the declarations of financial interests have been signed by the members, so i think that the whole of parliament is in favour of welcoming the 18 plus the 7 others who complete the whole panorama of our europe, and therefore a welcome from today to anyone who joins the work of the european parliament.
on behalf of the uen group . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak before the vote. i am intervening under rule 150 of the rules of procedure. since our amendment, no 19, is in fact similar to the epp's amendment no 1, the uen group withdraws its own amendment and requests that amendment no 1 by the ppe group be co-signed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the gruber report because it covers many of the questions put by the ppe and myself. however, i believe that - while being aware that integration is an important fact - integration must also be implemented with the consent of the citizens. so it is necessary that alongside integration there should be a certain and rigid application of the laws: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. in some countries this is not the case, and if it is not, then the citizens, with their discontent, end up making any form of european initiative on integration useless.
acting president of the council. mr president of the european parliament, commissioners, members of the european parliament, in its resolution of december 2005 calling for the establishment of the temporary committee on the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, the european parliament reiterated, and i quote, 'its determination to fight terrorism, but stressed that such a fight cannot be won by sacrificing precisely the principles that terrorism seeks to destroy, namely that the protection of fundamental rights must never be compromised'. the previous council presidencies have had the opportunity to express in this house their shared feeling. i cannot help but begin by stressing that the present presidency shares the same determination and firmness in this respect. i repeat, the fight against terrorism cannot compromise our values and our principles in protecting fundamental rights. this is a fundamental question for us. in the fight against terrorism, we can only win if we remain free. free from fear and any abuse or manipulation in the name of fear. our most powerful weapon, our most effective protection, is our values and principles in defence of our fundamental rights. although the council as such has no competence to take a decision, there will be no member state of the union which does not recognise the importance of the efforts and initiatives undertaken to get to the truth. it is important to remember that we are talking about fundamental principles on which european democracies are based. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the previous presidencies, who were also here, the secretary-general, the high representative and the coordinator of the union's counter-terrorism policy have always worked with the european parliament's temporary committee to this end. i think it would therefore in no way be fair to suggest any lack of commitment either on the part of the council or on the part of the foreign ministers. i should also like to mention the numerous initiatives, both parliamentary and judicial, which the various european countries have taken in response to these reports. this was the most appropriate course to follow in the spirit of the principle of subsidiarity. as you know, in many areas investigated by the commission, the european union has no power of action on its own. i am thinking here in particular of the supervision of the intelligence services. this is a fact to which the previous presidencies of the council and the high representative xavier solana have drawn the attention of your parliament and the parliamentary committee. they may, of course, regret that this is the case, but the fact is that the treaties in force limit the scope of the council's action in these areas. however, i can assure you that the portuguese presidency will continue to cooperate actively and constructively. i would remind the house of the full and transparent cooperation of the portuguese government, both during the investigations carried out by the temporary committee of parliament, which concluded its work in february of this year, and in the framework of the initiatives of the secretary-general of the council of europe, under article 52 of the european convention on human rights, concerning the alleged cia flights and illegal detention centres in europe. as is well known, although the council does not take a position as such on the reports by mr claudio fava and mr dick marty, under the auspices of this parliament and the council of europe respectively, this does not mean that it ignores them. in fact, the council has been an active and positive defender of human rights and international law in the european union's foreign policy. we have consistently argued that the protection of the fundamental values of international law requires a serious and in-depth dialogue on human rights in the context of the fight against terrorism. in this context, the union has stressed that human rights, the rights of refugees and international humanitarian law must be respected and must be preserved. the council will continue to monitor closely developments in the fight against terrorism in the field of human rights and will take appropriate measures to protect them. the union remains firmly committed to the total prohibition of torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment. we are guided by this objective and we constantly raise our concerns about this problem with third countries. the union and its member states have been pointing out that the existence of possible secret detention centres where detainees are held in a legal vacuum is not in line with international humanitarian law. the union guidelines on torture clearly stipulate that states must ban secret places of detention by ensuring that all persons deprived of their liberty are held in officially recognised places of detention and that their whereabouts are known. the eu directives on torture also require that no one be forced to return to a country where he or she is at risk of being subjected to torture or ill-treatment. it is common knowledge that the matters in question, which concern airport control, surveillance and information services, are essentially the responsibility and control of the member states. it is true that sitcen periodically analyses information provided by states, but it has no operational jurisdiction over so-called 'intelligence' activities. it should be noted that the member states of the union were equally confronted with the complexity which, for this purpose, characterises the system for sorting and processing applications for authorisation to fly over, land and inspect 'on the ground'. this is a new challenge for all of us. for our part, the portuguese government has not only carried out this sometimes difficult and very time-consuming collection of information, but has also set up a working group to evaluate the many procedures and to propose improvements, the importance of which was duly recognised by the final report adopted by this parliament in february. it should be noted that we attach particular importance to the work carried out by the secretary general of the council of europe and we take note of the reports by mr dick marty. the questionnaire and recommendations made by the secretary-general of the council of europe in the context of article 52 of the european convention on human rights have also enabled, both in portugal and, i believe, in the other member states, an unprecedented assessment of the national legal frameworks, safeguards and control mechanisms as a whole, including the analysis of the procedures for the screening, verification and control of applications for permission to fly over and land aircraft on national territory. in the case of portugal, it has certainly allowed improvements to be made at institutional, technical and operational level. as regards the recommendations of the secretary-general of the council of europe on safeguards for control, the dominant view of its members was that the initiatives under way should not involve unnecessary legislative duplication or the conferral of new powers on the council of europe. on the other hand, there seems to be a consensus that there is room for more effective implementation and more scrupulous monitoring of existing mechanisms. i believe that the more rigorously and calmly these investigations are carried out, the more effective their conclusions will be. although it is always advisable to be rigorous, not to confuse facts with allegations and to seek some restraint in language given the importance of the values involved and the good name of european democracies, the truth is that all these initiatives have scope and meaning. they must therefore be pursued, especially at a time when it has become imperative to analyse in a serious and uncomplicated way the new dilemmas, for example, security versus freedoms, posed by the terrorist threats. on the other hand, there is a growing need for an international law response to the difficult questions raised by the fight against an unprecedented threat. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the consolidation of the area of freedom, security and justice, on the basis of the hague programme and the action plan, is one of the main priorities of the 18-month joint programme of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies. the fight against terrorism is one of the major challenges in this context, and the three presidencies set themselves the objective of intensifying cooperation in this area and continuing to implement the european union's counter-terrorism strategy. as you know, the new european union counter-terrorism coordinator, mr gilles de kerchove, has recently been appointed and will be at the disposal of this house, as his predecessors were, for any clarification he may require. i would also like to take this opportunity to stress that the issue of respect for human rights in the fight against terrorism has been particularly covered in the context of the transatlantic dialogue, as happened, moreover, at the last summit between the european union and the united states last april, recalling, moreover, the conclusions of the european council of 11 december 2006. portugal, as the presidency of the european union, has shown its commitment to the continuation and deepening of this dialogue, which it considers to be key for both sides.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank the council representative. the commission, and i myself, have accompanied and supported the work of the temporary committee of this european parliament on the well-known matter and the serious allegations and facts which have been pointed out. it is clear that the seriousness of these events, and the mere fact that these activities have taken place, requires cooperation between all the institutions, between the commission, parliament and the council. and it is clear that we are reiterating once again - and i am happy to do so - that the fight against terrorism must be conducted in full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law, which are the two conditions for a functioning democracy. i believe that in this spirit the illegal transfers of prisoners, the hypothesis that there have been more or less secret places of detention, are certainly facts which, if proven in the appropriate forms, would certainly constitute a serious violation of the rules of international law and of the fundamental rights of persons. everyone knows that the members of the european union are all bound to respect the great principles of the convention on human rights, in particular articles 5 and 6. it is clear that we want thorough investigations into these events to be carried out in the member states and it is clear that these investigations must be carried out by the competent judicial authorities. one point must be clear, but it has been made clear many times, both by the rapporteur mr fava and by the report of the council of europe. a parliamentary report may provide some information, but parliament certainly has neither the power nor the duty to undertake a judicial inquiry. and when, of course, sources are cited as evidence that remain unknown, it is obvious that the rule of law, the very rule of law that we must respect, requires investigations to be carried out by free and independent judges, who, on the other hand, have the duty to reveal the sources on the basis of which an accusation is made. it is clear that to accuse a member state or to accuse a person without revealing the sources of this accusation is a principle which may be included in a report of a parliament, but which cannot be included in a judicial inquiry. that is why i hope that the judicial investigations will continue, as is happening in some member states, including my own country. but it is clear that the report needs to be followed up, and i can therefore list the initiatives which i believe will help to follow up this report. i wrote to the governments of poland and romania on 23 july last, asking them - recalling the obligation of a full and thorough investigation - for detailed information on how the investigations had been initiated and what the outcome of the investigations was. i hope that both governments will respond to me and of course i will inform you of the answers of both governments, precisely because i believe that it is first and foremost in the transparent interest of the truth that an accusation against you has all the instruments of the system to explain that the accusation is not true, to prove that it is not true, or to entrust the investigation to independent magistrates. it is the interest of the accused that requires, in my view, a very clear answer. the second point: i have prepared a questionnaire for all the member states. i spoke about this in the last plenary session, which was devoted to terrorism. i have prepared a questionnaire in which we ask each member state what measures it has taken to combat terrorism, what results it has achieved in terms of the effectiveness of national laws and in particular what level of protection of the fundamental rights of individuals is in national legislation. my intention is to analyse the responses and then prepare a report for the council and parliament on the effectiveness of the member states' counter-terrorism measures and their adequacy and compatibility with the principles of respect for fundamental rights. the third point concerns air traffic. i had a commitment with the libe committee and it was a commitment to look at a very important legal aspect which is currently lacking: what are the boundaries between the definition of civil aircraft and state aircraft, i.e. aircraft exempt from those ordinary civil aircraft controls? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up. this communication will be adopted by the college before the end of this year, so very soon, and we will of course make a proposal to define this concept of state aircraft better, which often lends itself to interpretations which obviously escape the controls which are, on the contrary, necessary. but there is another initiative that is specifically about air traffic. in the framework of a general solution introducing common rules for all member states for all types of aeroplane entering the european common space without flight plans. you are certainly aware that from 1 january 2009 the rules for the application of the so-called single european sky will introduce common requirements for flight plans for all the member states and that within this framework we will therefore harmonise the rules on the flight plan of every aircraft that in any case crosses or enters european airspace. this will bring enormous benefits because it will eliminate the differences in treatment of over-flight and landing in the member states which we have now, to some extent, observed. the other issue is the ratification of the extradition agreement between europe and the united states. if there were, as there should already be, a european agreement which we have signed but which has not yet been ratified, the rules on the extradition of prisoners to and from the united states - and we are talking about prisoners under investigation or suspected of terrorism - would be much clearer. this agreement has yet to be ratified by some member states, fortunately a few. i have repeated a formal appeal to all the ministers of justice to have this european extradition agreement with the united states ratified as soon as possible. again, the issue of control of the intelligence services. this is a theme raised in both reports, but it is a sensitive one. i believe that the national response is what counts here first, but i believe that some common needs can be highlighted. the first requirement is to strengthen parliamentary control in the member states. there are member states which have adopted or are adopting national laws which greatly strengthen the power of national parliaments to scrutinise the activities of the services in each country. that, in my view, is the way forward, because as you will understand, i do not see a common european law regulating the secret services in the future, but i think that a discussion on this subject is particularly useful. in conclusion, mr president, i think this is a subject on which we must continue to debate, taking the rule of law as a principle, respect for fundamental rights, of course, but also the right not to be heard and not to be accused, unless on the basis of evidence which has been properly and procedurally gathered.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. it is a pity, because at least on issues such as terrorism and human rights, this house should be able to overcome its internal divisions and produce a common position. if we have not succeeded, it is because the fava report unfortunately started with a preconceived idea: the united states is guilty! so we have wasted a year not in seeking the truth, but in seeking the evidence of this guilt, omitting and even concealing any element that would contradict this thesis. i will give one concrete example and i dare say it is outrageous: we also went to poland to interview a journalist who a year earlier had been one of the first to report on the existence of cia prisons in poland. when we saw him, unfortunately, and i regret to say this ironically, he changed his mind: he no longer had those certainties: he told us he wasn't going to write that article today! the report contains no indication of his having reconsidered his position, but it is full of testimonies from journalists who agree with the rapporteur's position. we have wasted a useless year, spending taxpayers' money and finding nothing new compared to what we already knew from newspapers and official and unofficial american sources. and if it hadn't been for president bush revealing the existence of the cia prisons, we wouldn't even have this certainty. you, commissioner frattini, tell us that you wrote a letter to poland and romania asking for an explanation and that you have not received a reply. it's always rude not to answer, but it doesn't surprise me, because the complaints are not proven. you yourself, in your letter, speak of probable information, not concrete facts. and both countries have already told the highest levels that they have investigated and that in their opinion there are no cia prisons. it may be true or not, everyone can think what they want, but we cannot, as you yourself have said, commissioner frattini, accuse until there is evidence. the fact is that the fava and marty reports are too full of phrases like "it's very likely", "it can't be ruled out", from which then certain conclusions are drawn. and don't tell me to justify the lack of evidence that we're not a court and that ours is a political document. but then it is no longer political when it is asked to consider whether or not there are extremes to invoke article 7 of the treaty on union. i have to say that i am not in favour of the commission's proposal. let us stop producing biased interpretations of the past, let us stop investigating this subject on which we have found nothing! let us leave it to the judges - as commissioner frattini said - and to the journalists who have the means to do it and can do it better than us. let us concentrate on the future, on the policy, on the propositional part which is the only acceptable part of the fava report. the united states has certainly made mistakes, in some cases it has violated human rights, but it is very easy not to make mistakes when you do nothing to fight terrorism. terrorism is a new phenomenon, our laws did not cover it, today the law must adapt. we are trying to establish rules of conduct to prevent further human rights violations, to prevent the mistakes of the past from being repeated and to adapt our instruments to a new kind of global threat. the commission should therefore try to make an overall assessment of the measures taken by the member states. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. much remains to be done to tackle the problem of terrorism in a global, strong and coordinated way. i'm thinking about the internet or crime prevention and prosecution measures, to avoid a paradoxical situation whereby while governments work separately at the national level, terrorists instead act globally via the internet and their cells rooted pretty much everywhere. our future depends on our ability to defeat terrorism. let's unite to win this battle too.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we approved our report seven months ago and since then the only new signals have come from the united states. one of them was mr gawronski: president bush reaffirmed by executive order on july 20 that his administration will continue to resort to the illegal activities of the cia through extrajudicial arrests and detention of suspected terrorists in compliant third countries. the other important sign is that the us congress has opened its own independent investigation into extraordinary renditions. this tells us that we are not facing a page of history, we are still facing facts of chronicle. judicial investigations are ongoing in four european countries: spain, portugal, germany and italy. thirty-nine pre-trial detention orders have been issued to date against as many us intelligence officers and agents. this parliament has certified facts, not opinions, by its inquiry. the fact is that some of our governments and some of our security services are responsible for the extraordinary rendition in cooperation with the cia. i remind commissioner frattini that our sources in this case were not anonymous, our sources as it appears from the report are statements by governments: the british government and the german government. we have submitted 48 recommendations, mainly to the council, and we would like to know from the council whether any of these recommendations have been followed up during the past seven months. we had made two requests in particular: we called on the european institutions and the council to assume their responsibilities under articles 6 and 7 of the treaty and we expected the council to put pressure on all the governments concerned to provide complete and exhaustive information, with the possibility of opening hearings if necessary. that is not the case, mr lobo antunes, it is not true that the council has no powers, the council has the powers laid down in articles 6 and 7 of the treaty. our request could certainly have been accepted by the german presidency and today by the portuguese presidency. we appreciate the initiatives of commissioner frattini, but we are not satisfied with these two semesters of the presidency, which have in fact brought to an end a year of work by our committee of inquiry. in the face of the demand for truth from public opinion in our countries, the silence of the council - and i must say also of many of our governments - has been a lost opportunity for europe. this parliament is not going to resign, however. i am sorry about mr gawronski, but we shall be dealing with this again. an own-initiative report in the committee on civil liberties will be our contribution to a fight against terrorism, which is always, everywhere and against anyone who respects human rights: first of all, as we were taught centuries ago by cesare beccaria, the presumption of innocence.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that this parliament has done a very good job in approving mr fava's report, and i also believe that the general assembly of the council of europe has made an important contribution to the establishment of a truth which is now clear: there have been thousands of flights, there have been dozens of kidnappings, there has been the direct involvement of european governments and european union intelligence services! we have evidence of this, we also have the minutes of the proceedings of the special committee of the european parliament, which show that the european governments have sat down and discussed the extraordinary rendition with the american government. it is a clear fact, a public fact, which i believe deserves respect even from the colleagues who voted against this report. there's only one black hole in this story: the council's silence. and the council's silence is a little embarrassing in this matter, since everyone has spoken. and i think that there is an anomaly, however, that while the council is silent, governments are acting. in fact, it is not true that governments pretend not to know: governments are acting to prevent the truth from being known. for example, the italian government is at this stage avoiding extradition of the cia agents involved in the judicial inquiry, even imposing a state secret that slows down the initiative of judicial activity in the case of abu omar. so governments are acting while the council is silent. i don't think that's right! we must respect the work that this parliament has done so well and i think that a sign of respect should also come from the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many months have passed since this parliament documented the serious illegalities committed or permitted by various european governments in collusion with the us intelligence services. we found that these european governments had little or no cooperation with the parliamentary committee in the search for truth and accountability. we can say, in the light of the statements of the commission and the council, that things have remained essentially the same as they were then: the commission has done little or nothing, apart from the laudable letters that commissioner frattini has mentioned here, to oblige the member states to provide adequate information on the activities of their secret services. nothing at all to redefine the role and independence of the intelligence services of different countries in relation to the obvious supremacy and dominance of the american ones. in the light of the data which have emerged for italy, poland, great britain and germany, for example, one can only speak of the subordination to the united states of vital nodes of european security. now, even if our main ally respected european laws and principles, we could not accept a reduction in our european sovereignty! but that becomes intolerable after we discover that our main ally is adopting imperial methods towards us and ignoring or violating our laws on our territory! i therefore express my dissatisfaction with the statements made by the council and the commission and i believe that parliament will have to continue to work in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to know whether it would be possible to add articles 6 and 7 of the treaty to the minutes of our debate. we have just heard from the council that articles 6 and 7 would be limited to a statement of principles. as you know, article 6 deals with the principles, article 7 deals with the actions to protect those principles. i think it is useful to remind the council and also my colleagues in the house of this.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our resolutions and declarations, when they do not remain a dead letter or a feeble voice in the council's ear, are overwhelmed by the timeliness of events which certainly do not coincide with and certainly do not await our plenary calendar. a few days ago we voted almost unanimously for a resolution on burma, where the recitals gave a framework to the many human rights violations in that country today, failing to sum up better how and how a regime of marxist inspiration and then military, with the known support of china, has oppressed a people for decades. it is not just oppressive, and it is good to remember that the burmese regime is a system that bases much of its power and budget on drug trafficking. i would like to stress that when it comes to the repression, censorship and the extensive system of harassment that has characterized the burmese regime for years, there is not only the much-praised aung san suu kyi, there are not only journalists like u win tin or actors like mr zaganar or the well-known civil rights activist win naing. i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are also buddhist monks, as you know, but there are also many important minorities. there is one in particular, a cultural and ethnic one, which was not mentioned in the resolution adopted two weeks ago, the karen people. a people who for decades have refused to accept a system that imposes a livelihood through child prostitution and the cultivation of drugs. the mere deploration of the repression of popular protest by the state council for peace and development and the joint demand for the democratization of burma are in fact worth the harsh condemnations, the demands for immediate and unconditional release - i repeat and insist - and all the rest we are busy writing, begging or threatening without having much effect in practice! even president bush of the united states, despite his many pleasantries before the un general assembly, has a point in his favour, as he has gone so far as to call for un intervention and has spoken of a country that has become a reign of fear, where fundamental freedoms are violated and ethnic minorities are persecuted, where child labour, human trafficking and rape are common practices. and so bush announced the tightening of sanctions, as the presidency of the european union has also said. well, let us hope they do, because if they do not, we shall not hear any bombing threats either against the burmese military bases or those of their chinese partner. for the burmese opposition, it's like the decades-long struggle of the karen people: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome.
member of the commission. madam president, i want to thank you for the really many and very encouraging speeches, i'm not an expert on this, but we need more expertise on this agenda. i know this issue personally, but it is precisely a much deeper approach by different institutions and policies that is needed to address this issue. several of them have been identified, and they concern the areas of social policy, equal opportunities, non-discrimination, health, education, training and perhaps many others that have to do with this issue. the starting point is really interest and the will to change the situation, because ignorance breeds intolerance - this applies to everything, including this issue. one of the tasks is probably to bring the views of the states and the union closer together, because there is no definition anywhere and in some countries there are already national days dedicated to this issue. in my view, the definition used by the united nations in the disability convention goes in the direction that might actually be inspiring for member countries, but that's their competence. i would like to repeat what i said at the beginning: we have a number of important programmes which can help in terms of expertise, but also in terms of information and communication to identify ways of finding solutions. it is a programme of education, lifelong learning or research and also a programme of public health. allow me to personally and institutionally thank the team of authors, but also all those who care about the fact that people with asd are seen as equals and even as really often unrecognized, undervalued in terms of talent, ability, potential. the commission has been called upon to be more active on this issue, i mean the commission is active and will be even more active in cooperation with parliament and the presidency countries than we have perhaps been so far.
in writing. i thank the colleagues who have raised this important discussion and the european commission, in the person of commissioner figel, with whom i have already worked on a number of occasions, for their willingness to take note of the suggestions made by this institution. although the health sector is primarily a matter for national competence, i appreciate the efforts the commission is making to try to encourage member states to adopt strategies which enable people with disabilities to have access to care and, above all, the possibility of leading as normal a life as possible. the disability work plan (2003-2010) or the progess programme itself already go in this direction. it is important, however, to raise awareness among european citizens in order to promote the integration of these people, especially children, into society. integration and communication actions against discrimination in schools, the workplace, sport and everyday life are as necessary as access to the health system, because these disorders, sometimes only physical, do not also compromise the personal and professional lives of patients and their families.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank my colleague for her work. as rapporteur for the european parliament on the rights of the child, i would first like to stress an important part of this report, namely the one concerning roma children. i would like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that it is children who bear the heaviest costs of discrimination and social exclusion. in europe there are many, many street children, often of roma origin, who are denied a future because they do not have a proper schooling, and in many cases are completely illiterate. these children do not receive adequate medical care, nor the necessary vaccinations. they are therefore children who have no future, because they have a denied childhood, because they are often forced to beg, to collect alms, almost always during school hours, or are destined for black labor. as the report also states, member states must be committed to implementing positive anti-discrimination policies. in this specific case, policies that guarantee the right to education for roma children and that commit the families of roma children to complying with the schooling obligation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of minors against discrimination, exploitation and social exclusion. i would also like to conclude by saying that it is unacceptable that too many member states, including my own country, italy, have still not transposed the provisions of the directive into national law.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from discrimination is a very good one, and one of the most important. italy, for example, is under infringement procedure by the european union for not having transposed the aforementioned directive. the european union calls on the government of the republic of moldova to take all necessary measures to ensure that the human rights situation in the country is not jeopardized. last december, in the town of opera, near milan, a group of citizens led by the leaders of the national alliance league literally hunted and burned the tents with about thirty roma minors inside. in pavia, dozens of roma were expelled under the cry of "gas chambers". on the outskirts of rome, just a few days ago, 40 hooded men armed with sticks, knives and incendiary bottles stormed a roma camp in ponte mammolo in the night. in italy, almost every day, one or more nomadic camps are cleared by the municipal administrations without guaranteeing the most basic rights to the roma. is this the special social protection that the report calls for, especially in view of the enlargement of the community to include the roma? i agree with the rapporteur that the penalties for infringements of national provisions adopted in accordance with the directive must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. i also recall that on 25 april we approved ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report. we have had several occasions in the committee on women's rights to address this issue, but today mrs kauppi has the merit of highlighting a problem, of shedding light on it, which is to say that once again in europe, in the world of women, there is a wage differential, a wage differential that is unsustainable at equal work. and while recognizing that female education is a high education, women today represent 59% of european graduates, the presence of women in the world of work has increased significantly, this presence sees important recognition in terms of the results it is able to achieve. however, i believe that the main merit lies in having highlighted some of the elements which make it still difficult for women to be present in the world of work, so that this is in fact the case even without justification - even in the face of european and individual member state laws which prevent different wages in the world of work. it is not just happening in southern europe, as is usually said, but throughout europe, even in the nordic countries, even in those where tradition leads us to make the presence of women in the world of work and institutions a more established and more recognized presence. i think i am drawing attention to one of the issues raised by kauppi, namely the decision to make the cost of maternity allowances and parental leave payable by the community as a whole in all the member states, because these costs, while still partly borne by companies, are the reasons for the lower number of women employed and also affect their careers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted for this resolution with conviction, but europe must do much more. i have already written to you, mr president, asking you to invite a delegation of buddhist monks to europe, perhaps accompanied by the high spiritual authority, the dalai lama, to whom the authorities in brussels and the belgian government have shamefully submitted to the dictates of china. and as regards the authorities in brussels, i am surprised, mr president, that you have not yet made a clear statement in this house condemning what has happened, through the fault and determination of the authorities in brussels, to certain members of parliament. the fight for freedom is not just for buddhist monks, it is for those who demonstrate democratically, for example against the islamization of europe! it is a shame that the european parliament is silent when meps like vanhecke, borghezio and others have demonstrated for the freedom of europe! shame on you!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i did not vote on myanmar because i think that despite our good intentions, the authorities in that country do not care what we vote for. i must point out, however, that in myanmar the demonstrations were able to go on without too many problems for several days, whereas in our capital brussels a peaceful demonstration was brutally suppressed, just as it had begun. so let us look a little more closely at the violations of our rights, of our freedom to protest in our europe, before we even go to see other people's houses!
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with the intergovernmental conference just days away, we are preparing for the usual night, the usual day of bargaining, as has always happened, which will end, as always, with a compromise to the downside. the reading of the various texts, the ones we were able to obtain through pseudo-secret channels, because very little is done publicly here, shows us that these texts are a very complicated reading and definitely not user-friendly. but the negotiators, we know very well, have no interest in being user-friendly, in explaining and involving their citizens in what should be an important moment of their democratic life. on the contrary, we have already denounced since the beginning of the mandate that the argument that 90% of the text of the constitutional treaty is taken from the reform treaty cannot hide the reality of an obscure text, full of loopholes and derogations that weaken the european union, particularly in the field of foreign policy and legal clarity. this was a negotiation entirely in the hands of the governments, behind the backs of the citizens, and taking advantage of the fact that the endless linguistic and bureaucratic discussions justified the passion and democratic participation which, for better or for worse, had characterized the convention and also the referendum season. three of our members took part in the work of the intergovernmental conference and followed the work of the lawyers, but it is unnecessary to deny that they were unable to improve the transparency of the process significantly and, if they were able to reduce the damage, they were unable to bring any particular improvement because they did not have the space. so, mr. schulz, mr. brok, mr. baron and mr. duff, i frankly don't see why? we must be considered, we must consider ourselves partly responsible for this text and why, even if we are of course in agreement that we must try - it depends now on what happens in the final agreement - to get the member states to ratify this text, why must we dramatize it? because, as mr schulz says, we must say, even here among ourselves, that if this text does not pass it will be a tragedy, because this text is fantastic, because this text here.... this text is horrible! any reader who sees this clearly realizes that this is not what the citizens wanted. that said, it is clearly better than nothing! that said, it is obvious that it is better no martin, put the thing back because i am not saying that i want to reject it i am just saying that we have to be responsible and credible towards the citizens and that even if this is a compromise that is absolutely not particularly sufficient, we will support it! but we can't lie and we can't say that this is the best we could have done, because governments have taken this constitutional process away from us and made it what it is today and could have been much better than what it is.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, other members will repeat this in the debate that follows, but i think it is appropriate to stress - also in view of the next summit - that a european citizen is anyone who has the nationality of a member state in accordance with national law. it is therefore the case for anyone who enjoys the rights conferred by that status, first and foremost the right to vote and to be elected as a member of the european parliament. for whom have we been working for years when we talk about the right to freedom of movement, to education, to health, to work, to dignity, if not for the citizens who democratically elected us? i think it is equally important to maintain mutual respect between the member states: the european parliament has been a major player in the debate on the future of the european union. linguistically, it has already been violated countless times. the lamassoure-severin proposal is now designed to eliminate this equality of political weight. if that is the basic approach, then let us not be too surprised that it is so difficult to reach an agreement to define a future together. the european summit will therefore reflect in depth on the concepts of european citizenship and democratic legitimacy.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lamassoure-severin report is to be rejected out of hand because of its anti-italian ideological underpinnings and the technical versus political arguments on which it is based. i shall not go into the substance of what i consider to be the importance of the jus sanguinis in relation to the jacobinism of the jus loci, which is clearly absent from the minds of the rapporteurs and the commissioner of the initiative. i am not a jurist, nor am i of such clear reputation as professor manzella, chairman of the european affairs committee of the italian senate, nor as other colleagues, to be able to dispute with such precision the legal inconsistency of what is claimed in the report. i think i am being effective in emphasizing that for the rapporteurs it is not the indisputable facts that count, but the assessment and role that italy has had and has in the institution of europe that counts in politics. the principle of proportional degressivity, so badly italianized, to redefine the distribution of seats fixed by the frozen constitutional treaty, has been applied with obvious discrimination against italy, since for some countries the tier system has been left, with macroscopic forcing, when it is observed that estonia, with three times the population, has been allocated the same seats as malta. the rapporteur, mr glinne, has already said that the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body. i am not saying that the european parliament should be a political body, but that it should be a political body, and that it should be a political body. i am not sure that the italian government was aware of the leak at the time of the preliminary debate in the council. but there's something that can't get through! the rapporteur is concerned with the meaning of citizenship, which he considers to be questionable. they want to include voters who are resident in europe, but who have a passport and citizenship outside europe. but they exclude citizens who reside outside europe. this is a gross, instrumental, unacceptable discrimination against italy, which we firmly reject!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the composition of the seats in parliament contains obvious contradictions, reinforced by the letter that the rapporteurs sent yesterday, as if to justify their position, on such politically sensitive matters, and it distorts the legal concept of citizenship as it has always been codified. the principle proposed in the report goes beyond national states and the treaties. from a legal point of view, european citizenship is the legal status of those and only those who are nationals of a member state and who therefore enjoy all the rights and obligations attaching to that status. and it is citizenship, not residency, that should be the text. this proposal also distorts the approach set out in the draft of the next treaty, which clearly states that the concept of citizenship has nothing to do with residence. the european parliament has missed a great opportunity to demonstrate to the other institutions that it is capable of finding solutions within itself based on recognised and shared legal principles. i ask the rapporteurs why the possibility of using the criterion of the number of nationals of member states instead of the resident population as a criterion for allocating seats has not even been considered. perhaps to give some an advantage over others? the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the elections. mrs. lamassoure and severin: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we cannot support the report. it is not only a penalty for our country, for my country, but also for other countries in the union. and it is a penalty for representative democracy and for the future treaty, which, as you yourself have acknowledged, contains guidelines and principles on which the distribution of seats in parliament should be based. the concept of european citizenship as the basis of the democratic legitimacy of our assembly cannot be ignored.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am in favour of a decisive role for the european parliament, which is often denied, but with this proposal it seems that the governments want to use this house as an instrument. we think that this proposal for the formation of seats is wrong. italy is being penalized and that is important, but what is important above all is that the reasons for this penalty are wrong. the historical parity is broken, and above all the allocation of seats is differentiated in the name of a resident population to whom no right to citizenship is attributed. and those who, like italy, have granted the right to vote to non-resident citizens are penalized. it takes more than that: i think, for example, that we really need a citizenship of residence, which has the possibility not only of counting in the number of members to be elected, but also of exercising the right to vote and to be elected. the representation of political minorities and small states must be guaranteed, by expressly indicating this in the criteria to be followed in national electoral laws, and new forms must be considered which enhance european parties and their ability to stand as such in elections. none of that is in this report, and that is why i shall vote against it.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am certainly aware that the task which lamassoure and severin have undertaken was not an easy one, but i must say that the result, despite the effort made, leaves me rather perplexed both from a legal and from a purely political point of view. the proposal makes reference for the first time to a calculation criterion based on the population resident in each member state, replacing it with the criterion of nationality. this raises a problem of legal and political consistency with the articles of the future reform treaty, in particular article 9a, which explicitly states the principle of the representation of european citizens. but i also think it is a political issue because parliament's role as the voice and voice of the people is being somewhat obscured, at a time when the union is committed to spreading the culture of european citizenship, identity and the rights of european citizens. and please do not reduce the question to a national claim or, worse, to a mere quantitative problem. this would be a reductive and trivial approach, and frankly a disgrace to italy's reputation. i also note, however, a disparity in treatment, a disparity between one group and another; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities for the protection of the environment. i would like to conclude, madam president, by inviting my colleagues to vote in accordance with the provisions of the treaties and with what our role as members of parliament has been and should be: the european union is a citizen of the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr stubb, who i am sorry has left, spoke of sadness this evening and other colleagues have also expressed themselves in the same vein. but i think it is sad to discriminate against countries and parliamentarians, especially those who try to enforce basic principles, as voggenhuber and mr moscardini have said. the lamassoure-severin report is not a question here, it is a probably good construction, but it is built on sand. in fact, there is a legal principle which is being violated in its entirety and in its essence, namely the principle of citizenship. this is also what those who supported it said, and it is also what we see in the compromise proposals of lamassoure and severin, as leinen said, as duff said so well: we don't have the certainty of the voting base here! we want to build a criterion on this absolute uncertainty of the electoral base, a castle that has its own coherence - excluding the base, excluding the foundation - which will lead us to a composition that is absolutely disrespectful of the preexistence and the citizens, and which will lead us as a further consequence - pay attention, i would not be a prophet of misfortune - in front of the court of justice. because it is natural, it is probably a duty, on the part of those who are injured, to appeal to the judge as an extrema ratio, as a moment of supreme decision for such an important moment. i call on my government, the government of my country, which has shown great weakness in this matter from berlin onwards, to finally find a moment of pride and to exercise its right of veto over this proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a minute is nothing. lobo antunes spoke of acts of courage: olmert's courageous step should be to stop all new colonial missions, to free thousands of palestinians, to stop military incursions into the west bank, to remove checkpoints and lift the blockade of gaza! and to get to negotiations with concrete steps, instead we saw yesterday new land confiscations around jerusalem. the courageous step we, the european union, should take is to reject any form of collective punishment being applied by the israeli government to the civilian population. our projects in gaza are stalled because there is no concrete, no pipes, costs have quadrupled and unrwa continues to sound the alarm. with the resolution we are voting tomorrow, we are calling for the lifting of the blockade of gaza and for the free movement of people and goods everywhere, knowing that the palestinian question is not a humanitarian one! our responsibility is political, to end the military occupation and to say: two peoples and two states that can coexist in mutual security!
that concludes the one-minute session.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the carriage of goods by road.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, honourable members, i thank you for your interesting remarks. i am very happy that i have an opportunity to participate in this discussion because, when the commission started discussing the proposal to have more transparency concerning the beneficiaries of eu funds, the information was published only in two countries: in denmark and in estonia. now it is 13, and finally it will be in every country. this, in terms of europe’s decision-making process, is very fast. i would like only to say some factual remarks. first of all, what was mentioned – the disclosure of beneficiaries – will be done in full respect of community legislation on data protection. it is already laid down in the proposal. several people raised the issue of the publication of information on structural funds, but absolutely the same logic applies to the structural funds, to which the same article 53b of the financial regulation applies. so there is no difference. all benefits which will be paid out from the european budget will be open, including the salaries of the highest officials and commission members. this is totally public. so there is nothing – and this has been public since the adoption of the staff regulations. i would like to ask parliament to endorse the commission’s approach as reflected in its proposal. we have sympathy for the substance of some of the amendments proposed, and some of these will be mirrored in the implementing legislation or in the final text to be adopted by council following the presidency’s compromise text. i am confident that the innovations now on the table will make regulation 1290/2005 an even more effective instrument than it already is.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 11 october 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the implications of the agreement between the community, the member states and philip morris on stepping up the fight against fraud and cigarette smuggling and on the progress made in implementing the recommendations of parliament's committee of inquiry into the community transit system (2005/2145 (ini)) (a6-0337/2007)
vice-president of the commission. mr president, thank you for your constant support for these issues raised. i must say the biggest problem is that all the competence in customs and value added tax is in the hands of the member states. i do not really understand why some member states are so reluctant to give more possibilities to use the facilities which exist within the european union institutions. for instance, olaf has been extremely operational in several cases, in the philip morris operation and in the diabolo fight against counterfeit operations, and this cannot happen without cooperation at european level and cannot happen without support from specific commission services. but legally, this is fully in the hands of the member states, as is the strengthening of customs providing necessary resources. the commission is doing whatever is possible to facilitate this cooperation. i must say that, without cooperation between member states, an efficient, effective fight against cigarette smuggling, and especially value added tax fraud, is impossible. i think that we have common interests here, and we should raise this issue constantly to increase cooperation. also – and perhaps i understood incorrectly from the interpretation – the philip morris agreement was between 10 member states and the european commission on the one side and philip morris on the other side, which is quite unique. it was the commission, its legal service and olaf which achieved this agreement, and, with ms gräßle, this is continuing. so i think that we can tell something in the future. but the main issue is really the reluctance of some member states to accept the mutual administrative assistance proposal which has been put forward, which can serve as a platform. we are offering a platform for cooperation, and there are still some member states, some of the bigger member states (i myself have tried to convince certain ministers of the biggest member state to be more open to this proposal.) somehow, there is a lot of suspicion; but, at the same time, being a former finance minister, i know that to fight value added tax fraud and customs is possible only with cooperation between member states.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 11 october 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. as rapporteur on the fight against fraud in the eu, i welcome the important agreement with philip morris to combat cigarette smuggling at customs. customs fraud is one of the main sources of damage to the community's financial interests, and cigarettes are one of the most vulnerable sectors. recent olaf operations - such as operation diabolo (135 million cigarettes seized, estimated value of eur 220 million) - have shown that customs fraud can and must be tackled: it is important to strengthen the operational capacity of the european authorities. the agreement with philip morris can serve as an example not only in the tobacco sector but also in other areas of the fight against counterfeiting. the proceeds of the compensation owed by philip morris, some eur 1 billion, should be used to strengthen the fight against counterfeiting in the eu.
on behalf of the its group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, reciprocity is an important value in interpersonal relations and even more so in commercial relations between states. i have tried to introduce some amendments in the el khadraoui report, and i have tried, without success, to make my colleagues in the commission aware of this and other issues. in this age of communications and air travel enabling unprecedented travel possibilities it is clear that agreements on air transport between different nations are both necessary and desirable. what is not clear, however, is why in this report - as in all the acts that the european union takes on - there is always the inability to demand reciprocity, which also means equal treatment and competition. we should not think like subjects, especially we in parliament, since we are the only institution of the union that actually has a direct mandate from the people. so if parliament is to demonstrate its independence in trying to guide the policies of the other institutions, it should show in its acts and in its already limited codecision that it is not open to extra-european interests. today we have the report by mr el khadraoui, which is otherwise excellent in so many respects, and i would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his efforts. but, as on so many other occasions, it lacks the capacity to say clearly that if there is to be free competition, it is essential that there be equal conditions for cabotage and respect for social and environmental standards. there is no reciprocity in the matter of safety and passenger rights either. the report also recognised that the aviation sector produces many negative effects that contribute to climate change. i do not understand why my colleagues did not support the amendment i tabled on the negative impact of compounds in engine exhaust fumes, which is likely to increase with the growth of the sector, and therefore did not support the inclusion of aviation in the european emissions trading system. finally, as regards the application of international social legislation, it seems to me that there is no equality of treatment between european and american carriers and that there is therefore no bilateralism here either. all this seems to me sufficient to disapprove this report.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a clarification to the rapporteurs and the services of the house: i would like to know whether amendment no 1, firstly signed by mr mayor oreja, if adopted would cause amendment no 51 to lapse. i think that is a mistake, because if mayor oreja's amendment no 1 is adopted, amendment no 51 will not be repealed, but this changes the voting orientation of the italian delegation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to point out that in all the treaties since maastricht european citizenship coincides with national citizenship. they're the same thing! is this concept clear to my colleague severin?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is not yet clear whether amendment no 1 is compatible with amendment no 51, because if amendment no 1 - as i believe - is compatible with amendment no 51, the italian delegation will vote in favour of amendment no 1, but we need this clarification.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the green group/european free alliance has always been a firm supporter of the urgent need for a european constitution, a short, strong text, an expression of european democracy and the cohesion of its peoples. we have supported the constitutional treaty - despite its enormous shortcomings - and we hope today that this confusing thing, let us not call it a simplified treaty because frankly it is a bit ridiculous, that you are presenting us today to be ratified so that we can then, mr crowley, move on to the next stage. we will not participate in the glorification of this achievement, which only contains steps backwards in relation to the constitutional treaty! fortunately, mr president, this igc was short. i do not know what other masterpieces of clarity the council and its legal and diplomatic services would have given us if it had lasted longer. so, thankfully, it was short-lived. today we want to denounce those responsible for this situation, which we consider highly unsatisfactory: the european convention and its president, who systematically refused to put the breaking of the veto on treaty amendments on the agenda in time and is now paying the price by systematically dismantling his work and by being forgotten. no one, including president socrates, has mentioned the work of the convention here; the pro-european supporters of the no-referendum, who find themselves today with a fistful of flies in their hands, less democracy, more nationalism, more confusion. the british government and media system, which with all its airs of pragmatism and reliability, actually shamelessly bowed to the cries of murdoch's tabloids and - after helping to make the bill of rights and the constitutional treaty much, much worse than it could have been - have now succeeded in making their public believe that having less rights, less protection, less transparency, less democracy is a great victory. this parliament and the commission, which have decided to remain silent for two years while awaiting mrs merkel's miraculous initiative, and finally the european council and the governments, which have chosen to throw the process of reforming the treaties out of the hands of public opinion and parliaments and to play the card of entanglement and confusion in order to save what can be saved. mr president, we are now entering the ratification process, a process in which the greens will not lie to the public. this text contains positive elements, but it is full of pitfalls and sticks in the wheels. we will work to ensure that the ratification and application of the new treaty does not forget that the road to a truly free, open and democratic europe is not finished and that this is only a small and not very glorious step.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the reform of the treaty, which i reject in any case, winners and losers. the new distribution of seats in the new parliament has been subject to the reservations of poland and italy. only poland wins other and more important battles: gets the opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights, gets an advocate general at the court of justice, wins over the ioannina mechanism. austria is also succeeding in introducing the possibility of restricting access to the country's universities for foreign students. romano prodi, before entering the meeting, proclaims that he will fight to keep the equality he always had. it comes out with the loss of parity with france but trumpets, as a victory, the regaining of that with england and the commitment to reconsider, from 2014, the division of seats taking into account citizenship; but we had already achieved this in the last plenary session in brussels. the prodi government, which believes that some three million europeans with italian citizenship are less european than pakistanis, indians and kenyans who are fortunate enough to work and live in britain or cameroonians in france, who as such, although not european, are counted in the allocation of seats, has accepted this as a piece of bread thrown to the dog under the table. we could not have expected anything better from the italian government, backed by a purely communist left and a devious and hypocritical centre-left. we have therefore good reasons to consider the europe of these treaties not to be ours and to hope that we can soon celebrate de profundis on the ridiculous prodi government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on a wall in the milan metro there was a very humorous and bitter inscription, which read: "the future is not what it used to be", a bit like the seasons or food. we are living in a time when young people are no longer convinced that the future is as good as their parents thought it would be. i would say that in europe too we often hear the phrase 'europe is not what it used to be'. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration, and it has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. i think the lisbon result is important, more because of the speed with which it was decided that it was a good signal to public opinion than because of the content, too many opt-outs, too many clauses, still too much complication, but now parliament, the commission and the council have eighteen months ahead to recover in front of public opinion the crisis season we had behind us. all of us, at least the majority of us in this chamber, believe that europe is the solution to the fears of globalisation, not the cause, that we are stronger if we tackle immigration, climate change, innovation, research together. that is what most of the members of parliament think. we now have 18 months to convince the 500 million citizens who live outside of here, before the european elections.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon summit has only achieved one result, namely to drive the citizens of europe further away from the european union, while at the same time increasing the space for lobbyists and technocratic powers, the perspective for which we are fighting, that of a europe of the peoples, of the regions, is becoming ever more distant. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. the distribution of seats, our country represented by a hot-tempered prime minister, prodi, has given way shamefully to france, but not enough, for the absence of this prime minister, who seemed to lisbon alice in wonderland totally bewildered, uninformed. it was excluded from the declaration - our country - thanks to prodi, from the joint declaration by which france, germany and the united kingdom rightly ask europe to take action to avoid a repetition of financial turbulence such as that resulting from american mortgages. prodi, speaking to the press, said, "i have no idea what this is, what this europe's stance on mortgages is for", on the globalist financial disorder. the former goldman sachs adviser and former commission president may often behave like a former adviser to the globalist banks, but he does not intend to deal with the very serious consequences for italian and padian families who cannot cope with the end of the month, the burden of expenses ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, according to mr cohn-bendit, there was a very clear majority in the committee on this point and the work done in the house against this decision of the committee was almost obstructive! that's the truth of our work! so it is not a question of procedure, but of political attitude!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that public health and consumer protection should be given a lot of attention, and i want to give my full support to these positions. it is not a question of the commission's being able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the production of foodstuffs. i am therefore convinced that the breyer report cannot stand in this form and that we must amend it accordingly. i voted against it and i am glad that the klaas report, the framework for action for which i was rapporteur in the committee on agriculture and rural development, has found a much more reasonable and practical solution. i therefore hope that we can make a considerable improvement to the breyer report at the second reading, because we have to make improvements.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, while i voted in favour of the breyer report as a whole, i thought it appropriate to support certain amendments to the original draft. it is essential to break the monopoly of large multinationals in the field of data sharing and access and to open up the sector to greater and fairer competition. the sector, on the other hand, is affected by geographical and environmental differences, which must be taken into account. therefore, more flexibility is needed in the mutual recognition and comparative evaluation of substances. at present, small and mediumsized enterprises, which produce mainly formulations, are deprived of a wide margin of manoeuvre because of the overpowering influence of large industrial groups - not only in the field of data storage and exchange - and european legislation must take account of and support their requests in order to avoid their slow but inexorable exit from the market.
the committee on petitions has also tabled a number of amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr virrankoski and mr itälä, for the excellent work they have done. i believe that the budget is the fundamental policy instrument of every public institution, but also of every private sector, because it outlines the political choices on which public money is spent. for this reason, three elements are essential: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it is clear that all this is based on a serious and rigorous policy which also concerns the innovation of procedures - as mr virrankoski said - and with which i fully agree. as regards the question of the committee on petitions, we felt that we should suggest to the committee on budgets that the proposed increase of 4.69% in the ombudsman's expenditure was right and proper, also because he is now a political actor in the democratic and transparent european union and in the good and sound administration of which he must be a vigilant guardian.
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are cases of widespread increases in food prices throughout europe. market surveys show that european consumers are radically changing their eating habits, being forced by too high prices to vary the quality and type of products they buy. the increase is due to the fact that products go through too many intermediate stages from producer to consumer and to the excessive surcharges imposed by large distribution chains. one thing is certain, though: the responsibility for these surpluses cannot and must not be placed on our farmers, who are the first victims of this worrying situation. we, mr president and mrs commissioner, believe that the european agricultural model must be defended today more than ever, in order to preserve the stability of national agricultural markets from fluctuations in international prices and to give substance to the defence of the production and land use patterns which are characteristic of european agriculture. we share the council's decision to approve the proposal for the abolition of setaside for the 2008 marketing year. but this is not enough to reassure us about the worrying situation of cereal stocks and the increase in their price on the world market. we must also intervene in the various coms and use these market rebalancing mechanisms which allow food prices to be brought down at least in the internal market. we have therefore asked the commission, including in a recent question, to propose an urgent increase in milk quotas of at least 2-3% in order to help stabilize the prices of this basic product. in the current unfavourable economic climate, it is up to the european union and the member states to take action to enable consumers to maintain their purchasing power in the food sector and at the same time to protect the right of our farmers to income.
i think it is important to start this debate, but i think that even from what the commissioner has told us, we are not aware of the problems we are facing. i would remind the commissioner that a few months ago on the question of the discussion of the amendments to the coms on fruit and vegetables - and what is now coming on wine - we were asking for a moratorium, to stop and reflect on what was happening, starting with some issues that i would like to highlight. the first: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. first guess! secondly: from 1950, when we were two and a half billion and had 0.5 hectares available for every citizen in the world, by 2020 we will be seven and a half billion (un sources) with about 0.2 hectares available for cultivation, per citizen in the world. i understand mr baringdorf that there is a fundamental problem, but i do not think that the increases that are taking place at the moment are in the interests of the producers. because if we look at the difference in the cost of the product to what it gets to the consumer, we see that there's a very long chain that the consumer pays, that the producer pays. but this is also thanks to the policies we have adopted here in the european parliament, so i think the commissioner here should carefully evaluate the acts we are going to define. of course, it was important to do that act of putting the maggese back into production, but moreover, today we need a thorough reflection. when this european community was born, it was created to meet the food needs of the people of europe. we must adopt the same policy today and we can no longer afford to let land be set aside for a policy of decoupling, because this also leads to a loss of productivity on the market and in our affairs. so it's about getting to a thorough discussion: the commission has also been asked to examine whether the policies of recent years have provided answers to consumers and producers or have not created a problem for these two groups.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation by mr gianluca susta, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the protocol amending the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips) (08934/2006 - c6-0359/2006 - 2006/0060 (avc)) (a6-0403/2007)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to take this opportunity to thank the secretariat of the alde group in parliament for the support and assistance they have given me and all the shadow rapporteurs and mr van hecke, who has been dealing with this dossier before me, for the excellent work they have done and for having managed to keep the unity of our institution until the end. this has been, in my view, the great strength of parliament in its commitment to facilitating access to medicines for the countries most in need, the developing countries and the least developed countries. the right to health and access to affordable healthcare are essential rights, which should be guaranteed to all citizens. unfortunately, we know that this is not always the case. the pharmaceutical industry too often charges too high prices, with the consequence of putting the countries most in need in difficulty. for this reason, as i have said on several occasions, both in the committee on international trade and in the plenary, parliament could not accept the protocol to the trips agreement blindly, as if it were a panacea, and consider the matter settled. parliament wanted more to be done at least within the european union, because the european union can and must do more. even in the light of the unpleasant events of the summer, such as the exchange of letters with thailand, which were only partially resolved, the european parliament, which has always been a strong supporter of the use of all the flexibilities provided for in the trips agreement, could not give the green light to ratification of the protocol without obtaining real and effective guarantees from the commission and the council. i think it is right to stress that in these months of close cooperation with the commission and the council, we have certainly achieved an important goal for the european union, namely to bring a substantially technical dossier to the top of the european political agenda. i believe that the result achieved can be described as a success, not only for this reason but also and above all because we have managed to make progress in very delicate areas, such as encouraging the use of the flexibilities provided for in the trips agreement, so that access to essential medicines at reasonable prices can be promoted, within the framework of the respective national public health programmes. i am particularly pleased with the explicit reference in the council statement - which was presented to us on monday - to article 30 of the trips agreement. for my group it is a guarantee and reassurance that member states can use this instrument without risking pressure and to ensure easier access to medicines in the countries most in need. secondly: i also welcome the results achieved in the field of trips-plus, i.e. those forecasts which are more onerous than those provided for in the trips agreement. it is the common understanding of parliament, the council and the commission that no provision should be made in future bilateral or regional agreements with developing countries which could have negative consequences for health and access to medicines. however, while appreciating the effort of the portuguese presidency, i would ask for the willingness to improve further the text of the declaration in the passage where reference is made to poor developing countries, as this reference can be confusing, since today only developing countries and the category of least developed countries are referred to by practice. the introduction of a new category would complicate the situation. it is important to stress above all that all developing countries, including countries such as brazil, india and others, must be able to benefit from the present system without running the risk of seeing worsening standards introduced in the future. last but not least: i think it is very important to emphasize the efforts made so far in the field of transfer of research and technological development to the countries of the global south. the alde group is prepared to give its assent, because it believes that a 'no' would be a negative signal to the countries most in need and would not be a responsible attitude on the part of the european union, since the reopening of the wto negotiations is not realistic. this does not, however, remove our reservations about the effectiveness of the mechanism which has been designed and approved by the wto. i would like to conclude by saying that the union must not stop there. parliament will do everything in its power to ensure that the guarantees given to us in recent months are respected in practice. in this respect, we ask commissioner mandelson, who in his letter reiterated that he does not intend to negotiate trips-plus provisions, which will remove from the draft economic partnership agreement with the caribbean countries the requirement to respect and accept the obligations of the patent cooperation treaty, the patent law treaty and the provisions on intellectual property, directive 2004/48 on enforcement, which are unequivocally trips-plus-type provisions.
the european parliament has been asked to express its opinion on the advisability of making permanent the amendment to the world trade organisation's intellectual property agreements, the so-called trips, which should provide a rapid solution to the crisis of access to medicines by developing countries. given that this amendment has so far shown no real effectiveness, it is important that the european parliament has seized the opportunity offered by the ratification of the amendment to the trips to have greater guarantees that the european union's policy on access to medicines is comprehensive, coherent and effective. the trips agreement, as the council has recognised, is only part of the solution to the problem of access to medicines and public health; it is therefore important that the council itself, as parliament has repeatedly stressed, should have declared its support for all those countries which wish to avail themselves of the flexibility provided for in the trips agreements in order to be able to supply essential medicines at reasonable prices. the european union must make a stronger contribution to curbing the health emergency in the poorest countries of the world, in particular by ensuring that these countries can meet their own needs and by avoiding burdening them with bilateral or regional agreements, the so-called trips-plus, on provisions relating to pharmaceutical products which are likely to have a negative impact on access to public health and medicines. we also believe that it is the duty of the commission and the council to support initiatives within the world trade organisation to make the trips rules less complex, especially to maximise the availability of products.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that tonight we are embarking on the report of a major project that has been awaited for years in europe, in every member state, in every region, in every city of the union, an objective pursued for years and called for by various actors in the world of education, work, the market and the economy, in short, demanded by society as a whole. tomorrow, with the adoption of the european qualifications framework, we will lay the foundations for a better future for the next generations, who will be able to have a common point of reference for their cultural, educational, training, professional and, of course, work commitments. in fact, in accordance with the lisbon strategy, the european qualifications framework is a direct link to improve the relationship between school, university and work, to improve the relationship between formal, informal and non-formal learning throughout the life course, to ensure transparency in the recognition of qualifications and certifications, both at national and sectoral level, always in relation to the european framework, and finally to strengthen cooperation between the member states in such a delicate field as that of comparing different systems. this is the leitmotiv which, in accordance with the lisbon strategy, has led us to take on the responsibilities we owe, with a choice which, i am sure, will promote growth, development and competitiveness in a europe whose objectives cannot be separated from social cohesion. it is a project that starts from afar and has its origins in the bologna process with the system of accumulation and transfer of credits, then passes through the barcelona summit for an equivalent system in the field of vocational training, finds its strengthening in bergen in 2004 and then again in the council of 2005, in which the need to adopt this framework is reiterated. a historic excursion which clearly shows the will of european decision-makers to create this new instrument considered by many to be revolutionary but above all necessary for the process of european integration which has been under way for many years. i am convinced, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that this framework will not only benefit crossborder commuters, but will also be a driving force for internal mobility within the union - we are thinking of students, workers, researchers and volunteers in general, all those who will need to move freely in europe without causing alarms or unnecessary worries. you remember the story of the polish plumber who scared france: it was perhaps one of the decisive factors in the french people's vote against the european constitution in the referendum. the text we have reached is the result of many months of work, of close cooperation with the representatives of the council, under the portuguese presidency, which immediately sensed the importance of this ambitious project. it is the commission, in the person of commissioner figeľ, which has accompanied this process with the utmost care and availability, and it is in this framework of sharing that we have been able to enrich the text by including the key concepts dear to the committee on employment and social affairs. i am very grateful to the shadow rapporteurs, mr castex, mr kusstatscher, the liberal group, mr mann, mr kasoulides and all those who have contributed to this, because they have worked hard and, above all, generously, to introduce these concepts, which are: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we have also stressed the non-binding nature of the recommendation, which nevertheless remains legislative in nature, not out of weakness but rather out of a sense of responsibility and realism, in order to encourage and promote the application of this instrument in those countries which need more time. it is certainly a perfect work, but, alas, in this earthly life everything is perfect, but i am convinced that we are facing a text with a soul and a conscience. i believe that the european parliament's job is to legislate in the real interests of the citizens, and we have done that, and the adoption of the text at first reading is proof of that, thanks also to the committee on culture and education with mr gaľa, the committee on women's rights and gender equality, and the itre committee, which have rightly made their contribution.
thank you, mr. del castillo, but night arguments are always the most interesting.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mario mantovani, who has followed in the footsteps of his banking neighbour, thomas mann, in this matter. we have a result which will force the education authorities in the member states to use this common framework of translation aids and this reference point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to improve the quality of training and to improve the quality of training. i particularly welcome the explicit and equal mention of vocational education and training alongside general education, and the fact that not only formal diplomas but also informal skills acquired in the workplace or in private life are to be given weight. access to the labour market is often made difficult by tricks. the educational authorities, professional chambers and associations often try to defend themselves against external competition by refusing to recognise studies and professional qualifications acquired elsewhere for formal reasons. 2010 is going to be different.
the debate is closed. at the end of this debate i would first of all like to thank the interpreters who have chosen to abstain even beyond the allowance. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency would first of all like to express its appreciation to the european parliament, and in particular to ria oomen-ruijten, for the draft resolution on relations between the european union and turkey. the presidency acknowledges and welcomes the active participation of parliament in the enlargement process as a constructive contribution to the debate on enlargement in general and on the accession process for turkey in particular. there is no doubt that all the debates are useful opportunities to raise awareness of the accession process in turkey. they are also useful because they stimulate the participation of citizens and of the member states and of turkey in this accession process and they are also an opportunity to support the turkish government on its path towards accession to our union. i can assure you that we pay particular attention to the views of the european parliament. the commission will present its regular progress report on turkey's accession process in a few days' time. the council will examine and assess this report very carefully. in the meantime, and at this stage of turkey's accession, i should like to share with you briefly some of my thoughts: we are of the opinion that the recent elections in turkey have demonstrated the turkish people's desire for democracy, stability - political stability and economic stability - and progress. we also welcome the way the elections were conducted, with a high turnout and the increased representativeness of the new parliament. the presidency shares parliament's views and concerns about the reform process in turkey. we want the new government to have a stronger political base and a clear mandate, which should enable decisive steps to be taken in advancing and expanding the reform process in turkey. it is imperative that our government gives renewed impetus to reforms and their implementation, focusing on key areas. the implementation of the accession partnership is of great importance, especially with regard to short-term priorities. i would remind you that the accession partnership is to be reviewed in the coming months. in this context, i would also like to stress the need for a broad discussion and consensus at national level on the new constitution of turkey. we also share your view on the importance of reforms in the crucial area of fundamental freedoms and human rights. more concrete progress is essential, particularly in the areas of freedom of expression, freedom of religion, cultural rights and women's rights, as well as further strengthening of the fight against torture and ill-treatment. most of these issues are covered by the accession partnership with short-term priorities that turkey needs to address. more particularly, in the field of freedom of expression, we deplore the lack of progress, the poor quality of the wide public debate on the issue and we are concerned about the growing nationalism leading to self-censorship. we remain firmly convinced that in order to guarantee freedom of expression, article 301 of the criminal code, as well as other vaguely worded articles, must be repealed or substantially amended. progress in this area is important for the overall progress of the accession negotiations. as regards religious freedom, tangible progress is urgently needed, particularly after the tragic incidents at the beginning of the year. the long awaited adoption of legislation that would deal globally with all the problems faced by non-muslim communities, such as legal status, property registration and the training of clergy to ensure religious pluralism compatible with european standards. the law on foundations could be a positive first step in this respect and will be carefully assessed once it has been adopted and is in force. the recent supreme court ruling on the ecumenical patriarchate is also cause for concern. we share your views on civil-military relations. recent events, particularly before and during the election campaign, have shown the need for further measures in this area to prevent the armed forces from exerting political influence. democratic civilian control over the military, similar to that in the member states of the european union, has yet to be established. we have condemned in the strongest terms the recent terrorist attack in the province of sirnak. we condemn other terrorist acts in turkey and will continue to do so. there is no justification for terrorist acts. we are not going to let the turkish people go unpunished. the terrorism must not, however, make us forget the urgent need to draw up and implement a comprehensive strategy to ensure the economic, social and cultural development of the south-east. this is a complex area which we are following closely as an integral part of the ongoing reform process. in addition to meeting the copenhagen political criteria, turkey's progress in preparing for accession will be assessed against the requirements set out in the negotiating framework. in this regard, as agreed by the council in december last year, progress on the issues covered by the declaration of 21 september 2005, in particular the full and non-discriminatory implementation of the additional protocol to the ankara agreement, on which, unfortunately, no progress has yet been made, will be monitored and analysed. i also stress that the recognition of all member states is a necessary component of the accession process and, consequently, the importance which the european union attaches to the normalisation of relations between turkey and all member states as soon as possible. the work required to meet the union's standards and obligations for membership of the european union is arduous, requiring continued effort and determination. we attach particular importance to the accession process of turkey and i can assure you that the portuguese presidency will also do its utmost to make progress in these negotiations. commitments must be honoured. support for the reform process and the fulfilment of existing obligations will advance turkey's accession process above all for the benefit of all turkish citizens. however, progress in the accession process depends fundamentally and primarily on the results achieved by turkey.
member of the commission. mr president, let me first congratulate ms oomen-ruijten on her solid report and for proposing a draft that is both rigorous and fair. turkey went through an extremely difficult period earlier this year with a severe constitutional crisis and high political tensions. despite such challenges, it conducted parliamentary and presidential elections in full respect of democratic principles and with a very high level of citizen participation. the result was that democracy had the last word. the new turkish parliament is largely representative of turkish political diversity and, as mr lobo antunes said, the new government can now work with the support of a stable majority and a broad popular mandate. thus the way ahead has been cleared in this regard. now the time has come to regenerate a new momentum in the reform process. therefore the commission shares the basic approach followed by the draft resolution, which is to identify challenges and to encourage turkey to meet these policy challenges. this means to support the commitment of the new turkish government to strengthen the reform efforts and to encourage it to translate this commitment rapidly into action. this concerns both the reform process and the ankara protocol. the commission welcomes the fact that the government has put the constitutional reforms at the top of its agenda, with a view to reinforcing democracy and expanding fundamental freedoms. however, this should not result in any postponement of reforms that are urgently needed today, such as the revision of the infamous article 301 of the turkish penal code and other articles related to freedom of expression or the adoption of the law on foundations to ensure freedom of religion. further efforts are also needed to ensure democratic supremacy of civil-military relations, to protect the rights of women, children and trade unions, to improve the judiciary system and to enhance the fight against corruption. let me say some words on the recent events and the current situation, on which we coordinate very closely with the presidency and mr solana and we have taken due note of parliament’s views. turkey faces continual cross-border terrorist attacks from the pkk, which is on the eu list of terrorist organisations. the european union condemns all terrorist attacks and understands turkey’s need to protect its citizens. the eu and turkey are both committed to the independence, sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of iraq. we continue to urge turkey and iraq to tackle this problem through cooperation between the relevant authorities and by respecting international law. the recent bilateral agreement between turkey and iraq on the fight against terrorism provides a basis for this. the turkish authorities are understandably trying to engage the united states as well as the iraqi and iraqi-kurdish authorities in their efforts, with some signs of progress recently. the resolution passed in parliament last week should be seen as part of that overall political strategy. the european perspective for turkey has proved to be a key incentive for reforms in the country. in line with our core principle of conditionality in enlargement policy, the implementation of the reforms on the ground determines progress in the accession negotiations. however, if we are to use this principle effectively to have serious political leverage to encourage reforms, the european union itself must stick to its own commitments. we have to keep our word – pacta sunt servanda. all member states continue to support accession negotiations with turkey, and it is vital for the union’s credibility that the process continues in accordance with the negotiating framework of 3 october 2005 and the council decision of 11 december 2006. these were unanimous decisions of all 27 member states. we should therefore open further chapters once they are technically ready. at least two chapters – consumer and health protection and trans-european networks – could be opened in the coming weeks. we also encourage turkey to work to meet the opening benchmarks already defined for 13 chapters. last but not least, please rest assured that your contribution will be duly taken into account in our forthcoming progress report concerning turkey, which the commission will adopt on 6 november.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one year after the last resolution adopted by this house on relations between the european union and turkey, i regret to note that certain fundamental questions remain of dramatic relevance: turkey does not recognise cyprus as a full member of the european union; the freedom of the press is still under pressure, as article 301 of the criminal code has not yet been amended; turkey is adamant in its refusal to recognize the genocide of the armenian people in 1915. the recent dramatic terrorist attack by the pkk, the consequent muscular response by the turkish army, and the threat of intervention in northern iraq if the pkk does not definitively cease its terrorist activities, are all factors which aggravate the dangerous and delicate geopolitical situation in which the turkish state finds itself. certainly some progress has been made, i am thinking in particular of the increased representation of women in the newly elected turkish parliament, in the economic world and in the academic world, but today more than in the past we have to ask ourselves whether the europe of tomorrow wants to be a great political entity or a strong cultural identity, because these uncertainties are fuelling turkey, which does not want to give up being itself.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council has said: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that europe must take its responsibilities. it is not just a question of turkey and the respect of the formal criteria for accession, the truth is that in recent months europe, european governments, have sent a message, starting with the french president, but not only him, that turkey will not join the european union. the oomen-reuten report is therefore in this context and the text is probably the best that could have been drawn up in this parliament, but it is the context that we must have the strength to change: the political and military crisis on the turkish-iraqi border is also the responsibility of the european union, the door we have thrown open politically to turkey, even though negotiations on the substance are still going on. what is needed is a major qualitative leap, where the european union, the governments, affirm a clear will for a political relationship that concerns the individual right of citizens living on turkish soil to democracy and the rule of law in a european perspective, this can help turkey to move in a european logic and not in a middle eastern logic.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, geopolitical reasons have been invoked by many against turkey's accession to europe: the fact is that the turkish authorities have not yet been able to establish a clear position on the matter. i think we must reflect on why your dear democratic turkey, the earthly paradise of human rights, is knocking at the door of europe, ladies and gentlemen, at the very moment when a terrible, unpredictable, dramatic scenario of war is unfolding on the iraqi front. and when you get back to brussels, do what i'm going to do: you go to visit the armenian restaurant, your non-eu friends are not also armenians? and their place was ravaged by thugs, turkish thugs, who set fire to a restaurant in the capital of europe just because it's armenian: this is the democracy of the turkish nationalists! so why should we welcome them when they still - today, and i invite you to vote on my amendment - do not recognise the armenian genocide?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too am in favour of referral back to committee, although my reasons may be different. in fact, if we look at articles 5, 6 and 7 of the rules of procedure and articles 9 and 10 of the protocol, it is clear that parliament should not have the power to express an opinion on the facts attributed to mr gobbo simply because mr gobbo was not a member of the european parliament at the time of those facts. article 9 of the protocol, which protects the freedom of expression of members, therefore refers to those who, when they use expressions or commit acts which can be identified with those expressions, are members of parliament. since mr gobbo was not a member of parliament at the time of the events, the correct solution, in our view, should be that parliament cannot take a position because he was not a member of parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just a few brief remarks on the new generation of nuclear power: it is worth recalling that in italy the nuclear power stations were closed following a referendum to abrogate them in 1987, perhaps rightly so, although this has gradually led to a situation of dependence on foreign energy sources. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's electricity supply. it should therefore be included in the energy mix which, together with renewables, clean coal and gas, should enable europe to limit its dependence in the future. i therefore voted in favour of the creation of fourth generation nuclear power stations, which will make it possible to produce energy in a safer and more environmentally friendly way. i have serious doubts and misgivings about the storage of nuclear waste. if the report considers that the problem of waste storage has been solved, i do not think it is. the waste problem is a crucial one and, to be solved in the short term, requires massive investment in research. in conclusion, i believe that the choice of the energy mix - three seconds more please - which will guarantee the security of the european union's energy supply in the years to come must be modulated in line with the evolution of research and in particular the development of new technologies.
the agenda includes the report by mr jelko kacin, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on relations between the european union and serbia, containing a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on relations between the european union and serbia (2007/2126 (ini)) (a6-0325/2007).
i would like to apologize to the house for the tolerance it has shown towards the rapporteur in accordance with the practice. i apologise on behalf of the rapporteur to the house, thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the commitment of the serbian authorities to cooperate with the prosecutor, carla del ponte, must be continued with greater determination in order to ensure the capture of war criminals. this is a shared security condition for the entire balkan area and the entire european union, as well as a legal and moral obligation. the serbian government must also be re-committed to a climate of peaceful coexistence between all ethnic groups in the territory. the ministry of interior has already taken initiatives to prevent and control interethnic incidents in vojvodina since 2004, but the participation of minorities in social life and their adequate representation in the institutions needs to be promoted. we are all in favour of an immediate resolution of the status of kosovo as early as december, but many problems will remain unresolved, starting with the necessary repression of albanian organized crime which is destabilizing the entire geographical area, including the neighbouring area of macedonia and albania, and is therefore a huge danger to the common security of the entire balkan area. we must not leave kosovo to itself, we must demand that the whole balkan area be placed under security through a continuing presence of the european union. from this point of view, an acceleration of serbia's accession to the european union would also ensure the stabilization of the area in the face of illicit trafficking in all possible and imaginable sectors that are raging throughout the balkan area, starting with the environmental sector. we must demand that serbia soon embark on a serious environmental policy in the energy sector, in the water treatment sector, in the integrated waste recycling sector, to prevent organised crime from getting its hands on this sector too.
i am grateful to mr martens, especially for the way we worked together in the committee, for the attention and also for the contradictions that emerged, the differences between us, but i think that the result, apart from a few points, is a very important result. relations between the eu and africa have indeed come a long way since the 2000 cairo declaration. a lot has changed in africa, in a continent full of diversity and torn by war, a path has been made with the formation of the african union, the policy of unity in diversity. the pan-african parliament adopted the motto "one africa, one voice", social movements in africa are alive and demanding the things that öger was just talking about; they are alive and they are coming together in networks and their visibility was very clear at the social forum in nairobi and the concept of not a european policy for africa, but an african and european policy concerted in partnership has really grown. the meetings between the african parliament and the european parliament, the presence at the lisbon summit put into practice what we have in the document that was said to be missing, namely the role of parliament. we are not only practicing it, we are not only claiming it, and i think the help and contribution that louis michel has given to this, and of course also to the portuguese presidency, is extremely important, but the contradictions we have are obvious. the pillars of the strategy are important, but we must make them work with consistent policies, and i am talking about arms sales, trade, so we are moving forward on this road, although we know that the road is full of contradictions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the work of mrs martens and the political will of the eu and the african union to build a common strategy on the many issues of concern to both communities: the european union is a major player in the world economy, from security to the environment, from migration to development and the promotion of human rights and democracy. for this strategy to be truly effective, it is important that the eu builds this partnership from the outset, with the real involvement of civil society and local parliaments, and promotes strong and concrete actions to defend human rights and freedom of expression and association and the principle of democracy, so that the economic and social development of the african continent can be truly sustainable and involve all layers of african society. i also join other colleagues in calling for the eu to make every effort to achieve the millennium development goals, to combat aids which is decimating the working population and to formulate european policies which are truly consistent with the spirit of development cooperation, especially in the field of international trade.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007 at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the debate on: - the oral question to the council on the international cluster munitions treaty following the oslo declaration by josep borrell fontelles, on behalf of the committee on development (o-0048/2007 - b6-0319/2007);
let's hope he speaks soon.
acting president of the council. mr president, as i have said, the council naturally supports all the efforts being made by the bodies with direct responsibilities in these matters to try to find out the whereabouts of professor ukshin hoti and we also understand that these questions are part, as i have said here, of the questions relating to human rights and the protection of human rights and also to that extent have to be part of our political dialogue, naturally, with their governments, with governments that may have responsibilities in these matters.
acting president of the council. mr president, as is well known, european leaders have decided to send a strong signal to the international community of their determination to fight climate change by making the following commitments with a view to promoting negotiations on a comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012. pending such agreement, the european union makes a firm and independent commitment to achieve by 2020 a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to at least 20% compared to 1990 levels and, secondly, the european union is willing to commit to a 30% reduction if other developed countries make comparable reductions and if more economically advanced developing countries also make an appropriate contribution. the european union believes that it is necessary to take a leading role in ambitious emission reductions so that developed countries can convince developing countries to contribute to the overall effort. an ambitious target will undoubtedly also strengthen the global carbon market, the continuation of which is essential to limit the costs of reducing emissions. several measures have already been implemented in the context of the european climate change programme and others are planned in the context of the strategic review of the european union's energy policy in order to achieve a significant part of the greenhouse gas reduction target. the emissions trading scheme will play a central role in meeting the european union's long-term objectives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and its analysis will be of key importance for the achievement of the european union's overall targets.
acting president of the council. the instruments at the disposal of the european union are diplomatic instruments, instruments of persuasion and instruments of political struggle. i think the best way to convince others to follow us is to set the pace, to set the example, which is what we're doing. of course, by setting ourselves ambitious targets that correspond to what our public opinion expects of us, we are setting an example, not only at union level, but a global example, to which the public opinion of other countries is also not indifferent and which necessarily forces their governments to take measures that also correspond to our ambitious targets. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the european union's global leadership and example has also had a pressing effect on american society, with the result that the authorities have been encouraged to be more ambitious. and i think, personally, it's my personal view, that the fact that mr. al gore has received the nobel peace prize on climate change issues has a lot to do with this, has a lot to do with our ambitious policy, with our willingness to change, to get others to commit to our goals, of course, within the framework of multilateral diplomacy centered very significantly on the united nations.
acting president of the council. madam congresswoman, thank you for your question. what we have to do constantly is a campaign of awareness and information and to give ourselves examples as well. that has been done. obviously there's still a lot that can be done, but i think that more and more the process of making people aware of the issue of climate change is more and more obvious and more obvious, because it's seen every day, it's real, people feel it. i can tell you from my own experience, if it is worth anything, that the climate in portugal when i was 6 or 7 years old is not the same as today when i am 50 years old. in fact, i notice, and people notice, that something has changed. and people ask why it changed and what are the reasons why it changed and what are the consequences of that change. on the other hand, we also have to adopt the necessary legislation at member state level to encourage, stop or minimise the causes of climate change. then we, the member states, who have made political commitments at the level of the european union, naturally have to make the commitment that we will pass the necessary legislation and that this legislation will be effectively complied with by all of us and once again set an example at the global level. i wouldn't underestimate the campaign of former vice president al gore. i think it has had a very significant impact on all of the world's public opinion.
acting president of the council. mr president, i do have something to say, and i will say it. the informal meeting of the finance ministers and the coordinators of the central banks of the european union, which took place in porto, portugal, on 14 and 15 september, discussed, as you know, developments in the economic and financial situation, among other issues. as stated on the portuguese presidency's website, our assessment is twofold. on the one hand, we believe that we are going through a period of volatility and risk reassessment in the world financial markets, triggered by the difficulties that have arisen in the sub-prime mortgage lending segment in the united states, which have been transmitted to the global financial system through complex financial instruments. the functioning of money markets has also been affected, requiring swift and firm action by the major central banks, including the european central bank. on the other hand, while it is undeniable that financial turmoil has increased uncertainty about the economic outlook, the macroeconomic fundamentals in the european union are sound and global growth remains strong, despite the slowdown in the united states. european financial institutions are sound and the high profitability achieved in recent years ensures that they are well placed to cope with the current period of increased volatility in financial markets. it is noted, however, that no specific cases in the member states were analysed. in this assessment, we also discuss the lessons that can already be drawn from the recent volatility in financial markets. it was stressed that while we have a sound regulatory and financial supervisory framework, which is being strengthened by recent legislation such as the implementation of the capital requirements directive and ongoing work on the solvency ii directive, we must remain vigilant, particularly in the light of the rapid evolution of innovation in financial products. the recent financial turmoil has thus made more urgent some of the issues already on the council's agenda and has made clear the need for the european union to look together with its international partners for ways to enhance transparency, improve valuation processes, continue to strengthen risk management and improve the functioning of the market, in particular with regard to complex financial products. the ecofin council of 9 october agreed on a detailed work programme to be developed by the relevant bodies at eu level, in close cooperation with the main international partners, by the end of 2008. at the same ecofin council meeting in october, conclusions were also adopted on strengthening financial stability mechanisms in the european union. those conclusions are available on the council's website. this is the visible result of more than a year of preparation. in particular, the council adopted a set of common principles guiding cooperation between national authorities in the field of financial stability. in addition, it was agreed to extend the memorandum of understanding on cooperation and exchange of information signed in 2005 between banking supervisory authorities, central banks and ministries of finance to include three new elements. first, the common principles formally adopted at the meeting. second, the common analytical framework for assessing the potential systemic implications of a possible crisis. thirdly, common practical guidelines on the procedures to be followed in potential crises, crisis situations, cross-border. a work programme was also drawn up setting out the timetable for this and other actions to be developed with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of financial stability mechanisms in the european union. all this work is obviously aimed at protecting consumers and investors who depend on the smooth functioning of financial markets. let me conclude by stressing that i believe the council, together with the european parliament and the commission, subscribes to the objective of ensuring effective levels of prudential supervision and regulation with a view to ensuring financial stability, global competitiveness and the protection of consumer interests.
acting president of the council. the council is always capable of surprising members and, as i said, ecofin has indeed instructed a working group to analyse the form and possibly new instruments and new measures in a very thorough and detailed manner, which could in future prevent or prevent such situations from affecting european financial markets and is therefore alert. it asked the competent bodies to do a detailed job and asked that what this working group would propose be the measures that would have to be taken to prevent situations like those we have recently experienced. whether they will prove sufficient in practice remains to be seen. but that is the perspective, it is a perspective of advising the council on the measures that may have to be taken to prevent our economy from being affected in the future by any further financial disturbances. i should also say that this was also the subject of the informal meeting of the heads of state or government in lisbon last week, where this message was also very well underlined by our heads of state or government: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president, you will recall that questions concerning the creation and closure of community agencies should be referred to the commission, which has the exclusive right of initiative in this matter. the legislative bodies, the european parliament and the council, act only on the basis of proposals from the commission. as far as the council is concerned, the honourable member can be sure that the need to create a new agency is carefully considered in each case. as regards the budgetary aspects of the agencies, we would refer the honourable member to the joint declaration of 18 april 2007, in which the three institutions agreed on a common set of principles for the budgetary management of existing community agencies or those which may be created in the future.
acting president of the council. as i have already said, mr president, the initiative to set up an agency comes from a proposal from the european commission and then the council, in dialogue with the commission, checks whether the european commission's proposal is sound, that is, whether it is justified or not. decisions are then taken in accordance with the rules of the treaty. i should like to say that portugal hosts an agency, the european maritime safety agency, based in lisbon, and i can tell you, mr president, that we understand that this is undoubtedly a very useful european agency. as regards the actual management of the agencies, as you know, the agencies have their own mechanisms for monitoring the way they operate, which in my view are quite strict, and on the other hand, as i have already said, there is also a set of principles common to the institutions which are very directly related to the budgetary management of these community agencies. my personal experience tells me that there is a particular care in the rigour of management and respect for the funds that are put at the disposal of these agencies. this is my personal experience. she's worth, of course, what she's worth.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, the council has not been informed of the member states' participation in this network, which is mainly an initiative of the g8 member states and the council of europe, and therefore cannot verify it. however, the council attaches great importance to the fight against cybercrime, as demonstrated by the adoption of framework decision 2005/222/jha of 24 february 2005 on attacks against information systems and the council's support for the swift ratification of the council of europe convention on cybercrime of 23 november 2001. in addition, the council conclusions on a general policy to combat cybercrime will be presented and discussed at the next jha council of ministers, scheduled for november. on the other hand, as regards portugal, there is a national central reference point which is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and which is in charge of this type of crime within interpol and a worldwide operational network.
acting president of the council. i take note of your question and your concern. whether or not it will be on the agenda, whether or not the matter will be discussed, will of course have to be decided later, but i will be the spokesman for the honourable member's concern on this matter.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president, as you are no doubt aware, the decision of a state to grant an entry visa to its territory is a matter of national competence. in the particular case of the treatment of cuban detainees and their families, this is a bilateral issue between the united states and cuba, since, according to the vienna convention on consular relations, the protection of the rights and interests of a state's citizens abroad is the responsibility of the state concerned. the council is therefore not competent to take a position on this question.
acting president of the council. mr president, i have of course taken note of the remarks made by mrs ilda figueiredo and i have of course nothing to add to my earlier answer to your question. furthermore, as you will understand, i have no personal opinion to express on this matter.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report we are proposing that parliament should take the initiative and make a proposal to the council, first of all in the context of the common foreign and security policy, on the question of opium production in afghanistan. if we take into account the results obtained so far, namely that in two years there has been a 50% increase in the production of opium, which is then used to produce heroin, it seems that this enormous mountain of production - which then goes all the way to enrich not farmers, farmers, but the big international drug gangs, terrorists, the taliban - seems that we cannot find an effective policy to reduce it. then the report also starts with another consideration: but at the same time, there is a huge shortage of access to pain medication. 80% of the world's population has no access to pain relief. of course, the two issues could be considered as completely separate, but we believe that it is also the task of political institutions to be pragmatic, and therefore to understand how, in the face of this enormous amount of production which is then used for heroin and on the other hand the enormous scarcity of a product which comes from the same agricultural production, it is not possible, as it were, to combine the two starting points. so, thanks also to the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs and the socialist group, mrs gomes, but also to the amendments tabled by the group of the european people's party for the plenary, they have helped to ensure that the proposal on the table today is not an alternative proposal, let us say, to clash with or to replace the policy followed so far from one day to the next. what we are asking you, what we are asking the council, what we are asking the commission, is to do an experiment, to try to try pilot projects to convert some of that crop which is used today to produce heroin, to use it to produce painkillers and then to start, also on the demand side, policies that go and try to bring painkillers to those continents like africa and asia which are virtually devoid of any medicine of this kind. that is why the report as it has come out of the committee on foreign affairs, and as it is also proposed to be amended, seems to me to strike a fundamental balance and to start from a very simple concept: i think it is probably easier to work with farmers if you ask them to convert some of their production to legal purposes, rather than simply responding by eradicating, spraying, destroying plantations, because this response actually creates more conflict with the local people and has proven, at least up to now, unproductive and useless. i hope that behind the official discourse, which i understand is that of european governments, the afghan government, which in any case claims the need to fight against opium production, in addition to this official discourse, there is also, however, and perhaps the european parliament is more free to propose it - we have assumed this responsibility and i hope that we will assume it tomorrow with the vote - we are more free to propose that alternative experiments be carried out to be evaluated in a pragmatic, not ideological way. everyone here has their own ideas about international politics and drugs, about international politics in afghanistan. this report is not intended to be an ideological proposal but a concrete attempt to help find a solution to what is truly a global drama.
i have no doubt that mr cappato, with whom i have a long-standing friendship, is desperately trying to make a contribution to the fight against drugs in the world and to help the unfortunate young or old who are suffering near death and can also be helped by drugs, but unfortunately i cannot agree with you. i am not, unfortunately, in agreement with you, because i think the problem is that your proposal involves afghanistan, a country where there is as much insecurity as there could be. yes, there is iraq which is perhaps more insecure, but i think afghanistan is certainly not the place where you can start an attempt to convince farmers to abandon the very lucrative cultivation of poppy for them and to move to far more just cultivations and much more from the old testament and also from the farming civilization that we all know. it is clear from your report that the largest amount of drugs in the world, about half, comes from afghanistan, and opium cultivation is illegal in afghanistan. yet, despite being illegal, they supply half the raw materials needed to kill our young people or to make them victims of drug traffickers who invite them, as we know, to this harmful practice of drugs, for them and for society as a whole. i believe that the only weapon to fight all drug traffickers, starting with the farmers of afghanistan, who i believe are the first drug traffickers, is overcome by the inability of the afghan government, not through its own fault at this moment, but through its inability to control and monitor them, which makes it impossible to fight drugs except by prevention and thus helping to reduce opium cultivation as much as possible. that is why the group of the european people's party is opposed to this part of mr cappato's report and i think that what i am saying should be clear to everyone beyond tomorrow's result. (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the uen group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue raised by mr cappato's report is extremely sensitive and requires careful consideration by the european parliament to avoid proposing, even with good intentions, wrong and disastrous solutions. i would like to emphasize two points: first, the growing production of opium and opium products in afghanistan is likely to undermine the reconstruction of the country and the already difficult establishment of the rule of law in that unfortunate region. secondly, the growing opium production - which has increased by 30% this year - has not been matched by an adequate strategy to combat drugs. for these reasons i find the proposal in the report totally unacceptable and i would stress that: 1. the necessary quantities of morphine are already being produced in afghanistan under specific licences and under the control of the united nations agency and the afghan government's ministry of drug control; 2. the international narcotics control board, an international drug control body, argues that there is already a worldwide surplus of opiate products for medical use; 3. large-scale legal production of morphine would result in further production of the drug which would eventually cross demand from the world drug market and be cheaply marketed and accessible to all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat drug abuse, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for action. in a country like afghanistan, in the conditions in which it finds itself today, the solution proposed by this report could be seen as a sign of surrender and defeat and could also undermine the commitment that the international community, the european union, the united nations, the reconstruction agencies are promoting in afghanistan through programmes to diversify opium plantations into agricultural production supported by financial incentives. i would just like to conclude by saying that the international narcotics control board has agreed to the accession of the afghan government, which has rejected the proposal to legalise the illegal cultivation of opium and has reiterated its commitment to comply with the obligations of the treaty.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the question is not simply to recognize that 92% of the world's opium is produced in afghanistan, but to recognize the growth trend: in 2001, according to the un, the un drug agency, there were 8,000 hectares of opium cultivated; in 2006, 165,000; in 2001 the tonnage was 185; in 2006, there were 6,100. this means explicitly that the current strategy of destroying crops by fumigation solves nothing, but rather produces social phenomena which then multiply the production of opium. they destroy other crops besides opium, and the farmers become poorer and poorer and end up in the hands of drug traffickers, whether they are the taliban or the warlords sitting quietly in government. the aim is to guarantee farmers support which, at least in the initial phase, must be at the same economic level as today and to free them from the dependence of drug traffickers. of course, this project does not solve the problem, but i don't think anyone is saying that. we are talking about an experiment in a limited space and it could not be otherwise in a country that is already torn by war and that has territory controlled by rival gangs. but it's still a step forward, which means that some of that opium is not going to end up in heroin, but it's going to end up in morphine. and i think that's good for the west, as well as globally. not only that, i think we should make it clear that the possibility of producing morphine is already foreseen. i do not think, commissioner, that there are all these problems in india and turkey, let alone in the area of regulation, but the resolution proposed provides for a role for international bodies as regulators, not over the whole of afghanistan, which is now unmanageable, but over a very limited area. on the other hand, it is the international medical associations that make it clear that morphine is still needed today, not only in the global south but paradoxically also in the global north. of course, the aim is to sell it by lowering prices, but it is a pain medicine and i believe that everyone has a right to it, including the african people or the poor. but if we talk about costs, we are certainly spending less on such measures and on calming down the price of morphine than on destroying crops with the present systems which do not produce anything. one last note: i appreciated the fact that it's a pragmatic debate, we're not debating here between who wants to liberalize or legalize drugs and prohibitionism, we're trying to make a concrete, pragmatic intervention that can help a part of the afghan population.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, two attempts at answering are on the demand side and the supply side. on the demand side, mr tatarella, who is no longer here, and mr howitt have raised the problem of overproduction, of the availability of opium, which even exceeds the real demand for opiates to be transformed into opiates for medicines. that is true, but it is true only about the current question. what the report is trying to talk about is the potential demand, which is that 80 percent of the world's population is deprived of any access to pain-relieving therapies, even for the most mundane operations, for amputations, for the treatment of cancer patients. so this is what we are talking about and the international narcotics control board has a share of responsibility for the fact that there is no global policy for the promotion of painkillers. on the supply side, i would say to the commissioner: it is true that the proposal for this pilot project would cost money, taxpayers' resources. that is true, but even the current policy costs money and a lot of money, from the taxpayers. so the problem is simple, it's what we ask you to verify: if it's more difficult, it costs more money to go by force to eradicate crops from one territory that then very often move to the next territory, or instead try to buy that crop, to process it on the spot, with the control of the international community, so that that production cannot be used to produce heroin and is used to produce the drugs on the spot. i believe that the second alternative is cheaper, even from the point of view of the european citizen and the taxpayer.
ombudsman. madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this opportunity to address parliament on my annual report for 2006. i also wish to thank the rapporteur, ms sbarbati, and the committee on petitions, for their excellent report. my report records progress in handling complaints, promoting good administration and providing knowledge about the ombudsman’s role. i received 3 830 complaints in 2006. that means that the total number of complaints has stabilised at around the level reached following the 53% increase in 2004. i am delighted to inform you that the proportion of complaints falling within the mandate has gone up. this suggests that citizens are beginning to have a better knowledge both of my mandate and of that of my national and regional colleagues in the european network of ombudsmen, which is thus commensurately strengthened to the benefit of all concerned. the total number of inquiries dealt with in 2006 was 586. of these, 66% concerned the commission. given that the commission is the eu institution with which citizens have most reason to have material contact, it is normal that it should be the principal target of inquiries. during 2006, 250 decisions closing inquiries were made. in 95 cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration. such a finding is not always negative for the complainant, who at least has the benefit of a full explanation from the institution concerned. even when maladministration is not found, i may identify opportunities to improve the quality of administration provided by the institutions. if so, i point them out in a further remark. many of my inquiries result in a win-win outcome that satisfies both the complainant and the institution complained against. during 2006, 64 cases were settled by the institution concerned to the satisfaction of the complainant. whenever i find maladministration, i try to achieve a friendly solution, if possible. three friendly solutions were achieved in 2006 and a further 27 proposals for such a solution were under consideration by the institution concerned at the end of the year. when a friendly solution is not possible, i close the case with a critical remark, or make a draft recommendation. a critical remark is appropriate if it is no longer possible for the institution concerned to eliminate the instance of maladministration. i wish to emphasise that the criticism is intended to be constructive, so as to help avoid similar maladministration in the future. in 2006, i closed 41 inquiries in this way. to better monitor the impact of my criticism and advice, i have this year launched a study of the follow-up to all critical remarks made in 2006, as well as to the 38 cases involving a further remark made during the same year. the results of these studies should provide further encouragement to the institutions concerned to improve their practices and develop a culture of service to citizens. in cases where it is still possible to eliminate the instance of maladministration, i normally make a draft recommendation to the institution, which must respond with a detailed opinion. during 2006, 13 draft recommendations were made. if an institution fails to respond satisfactorily to a draft recommendation, i may send a special report to the european parliament. two special reports were made in 2006. the first concerned the council’s responsibility for the choice of languages used in its presidency websites. the second called on the commission to deal properly with an infringement complaint concerning sports betting services. i am pleased to report that the commission reacted promptly and positively to that report. a new feature of the annual report which i wish to highlight, with an eye to supporting and encouraging good administration, concerns what i call ‘star cases’ of good practice by institutions, revealed through my inquiries. i would now like to mention some other activities that i have undertaken during 2006 with a view to ensuring the best possible service to citizens. firstly, i signed a memorandum of understanding with the european data protection supervisor (edps). our agreement aims to ensure the consistent treatment of complaints that raise issues of data protection and to avoid unnecessary duplication. the agreement allows me to benefit from the expertise of the edps by consulting him in cases where the text of the data protection regulation and existing case-law leave room for divergent views. this has already proved to be a useful mechanism for me when dealing with cases in which it is necessary to reconcile the legal right of access to documents with the right to privacy. i also signed an agreement with the spanish government to enable citizens to complain to the european ombudsman in any of the co-official languages in spain. i thus aligned my practice with the conclusions reached in june 2005 by the council, which provide for the use of those languages to facilitate spanish citizens’ communication with the eu institutions. honourable members, i am grateful for the support for the work of the european ombudsman expressed in ms sbarbati’s report, and i would like to inform parliament that, as requested in her report, i am already engaged in preparing the ground for a memorandum of understanding with the european investment bank. given that the implementation of eu law is largely the responsibility of member states’ administrations, i will continue to develop cooperation through the european network of ombudsmen. i am happy to inform you that the sixth meeting of the network took place last week in this very building. at the conclusion of that successful meeting, we adopted by consensus a statement that aims to make the eu dimension of the work of national and regional ombudsmen better known, and to clarify the service they provide to people who complain about matters that fall within the scope of eu law. the voluntary cooperation among ombudsmen that is now crystallised in the statement can, i believe, make an important and growing contribution to the european union’s ability to deliver concrete results, by ensuring that citizens can enjoy their rights as an everyday reality and that problems are solved in ways that are close to the citizen. the european ombudsman was established to help bring the union closer to citizens and to give the eu administration a ‘human face’. a fundamental aspect of our institution is that the ombudsman is an individual who communicates personally with citizens, who reviews their cases, and who seeks to resolve their problems and complaints. each one of these ‘microcommunications’ constitutes an opportunity to build trust between citizens and the institutions. in pursuit of this goal, i will continue to promote a constructive dialogue with the institutions and to draw their attention to problems so that they can improve their performance. the way in which a public administration reacts to complaints is a key measure of how citizen-focused it is. while progress has been made in many areas, the year 2006 regrettably saw a rise in the proportion of cases which i had to close with a critical remark. that should be cause for concern for anyone who wants better relations between the eu and its citizens. complaints offer an opportunity to put things right and to demonstrate that the institution concerned is serious about respecting the citizens’ fundamental right to good administration. i am not sure that citizens can easily reconcile the statements often made by institutions concerning their desire to get ‘closer to the citizen’, and for ‘more openness’, with the fact that the very same institutions frequently fail to take up the opportunities offered by the ombudsman to improve relations and increase transparency. i am positively encouraged, however, by a number of indications that, during the present year, 2007, there is a much greater willingness to take up the opportunities offered by my inquiries to resolve complaints. such cooperation is essential, because the ombudsman cannot succeed alone. ensuring a top-class administration is a task that must be tackled in tandem with the eu institutions. delivering on promises, providing proper redress mechanisms, learning from mistakes, working openly and allowing for public scrutiny – these are the all-important ‘means’ towards building trust. equally, the european ombudsman must work concertedly and systematically with national and regional colleagues to ensure that citizens’ rights are fully respected throughout the union. finally, the ombudsman must continue to reach out to citizens so that they can become aware of his services. with parliament’s support and guidance, i will continue to endeavour to build on existing achievements with a view to truly fulfilling my institutional mandate of bringing the union closer to citizens and giving the eu administration a ‘human face’.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the ombudsman for the excellent work he has done, as also reflected in this timely report. i also thank the commission's legal services and all my colleagues in the committee, and in particular the shadow rapporteur and mr mavrommatis, for the cooperation i have had. the culture of service to the citizen, which has as its priority objective a quality, transparent, accessible, prompt and cooperative public administration, has been promoted and nurtured at community level through the joint efforts of the committee on petitions and the ombudsman. its birth certificate can be traced back to the resolution of 6 september 2001, the date on which the european parliament adopted the code of good administrative behaviour proposed by the european ombudsman. on the other hand, since the maastricht treaty, european citizenship has taken a great leap forward, offering every citizen the possibility of submitting a petition to a parliamentary body which remains its sole arbiter, or of having recourse to a more technical body, which, although operating in the extrajudicial sphere, follows a procedure without excluding parliamentary scrutiny, in the event of the reluctance of the community institution responsible for maladministration. i shall not go into statistics, the ombudsman has already spoken about them and they are those confirmed in the report. the cases of maladministration today are based on lack of transparency, denial of information, abuse of power, legal error, failure to fulfil the roles, especially for the commission, as guardian of the treaty. the ombudsman's decisions are not legally binding, but the guarantees he offers through his work help to strengthen powers of persuasion. he has the active support of the committee on petitions, before which he spoke at four meetings in 2006, and the cooperation of the european network of ombudsmen, which should be completed and improved. i would point out the case of italy, which still does not have a national ombudsman. it should be stressed, however, that in order to avoid conflicts of competence between the work of the ombudsman and that of the committee on petitions, files with final effect must be exchanged with each other in real time. the report divides the decisions on investigations concluded in 2006 into several categories: lack of openness of the community institutions and bodies (25% of inquiries); the role of the commission as guarantor of the treaty in relation to the procedure laid down in article 266; the management of contracts, allowances and subsidies; recruitment and staff management in the community institutions. the procedure is often terminated by critical remarks, which are a preventive weapon to prevent future instances of maladministration, when the recommendation is useless. the ombudsman gave several examples which can be read in the report. in this respect, however, the committee on petitions asks the ombudsman to carry out a detailed study of the practical impact of the critical remarks he made in the 2006 inquiries. the fact that the institutions have adopted a code of good administrative behaviour is often not a sufficient guarantee for the establishment of a true culture of service. the report also highlights areas of uncertainty about the commission's abuse of discretionary powers by failing to act in the pre-litigation phase of the infringement procedure, and by entrenching itself behind political considerations. in the area of contractual staff management, some of the inquiries initiated by the ombudsman's own office demonstrate how his powers constitute an effective tool to stimulate the sound principle of self-protection of the administration, which must be used more and more. the committee on petitions believes that the timing and the views of the ombudsman and parliament on the handling of the same cases should be avoided by means of a constant and constructive dialogue. the committee on petitions once again calls on the ombudsman to monitor the epso apparatus in order to protect the rights of candidates, especially young people, in the european parliament's competition procedures, and also in relation to alleged discrimination reported to us at the european school in brussels. this year's report shows, mr president, that the ombudsman is an actor in the democratic life of the union. a privileged intermediary of the citizens in their relations with the public administration. he draws the line between good and bad administration by suggesting remedial measures or satisfactory solutions for the applicants, so as to transform their bad behaviour into virtuous behaviour. to that end, mr ombudsman, it would be appropriate for you to draw up not only a list of good administrative practice covering only the positive examples but also the negative ones. the key principle to be upheld is the democratic equality of all european citizens, without national or linguistic distinctions or discrimination. the ombudsman is called upon to continue his vigilance in the interests of linguistic equality. the committee on petitions is in favour of simplifying the procedure for a more rapid examination of the ombudsman's annual report and is also in favour of adapting the statute, so that the changes merely entail a qualitative extension of the ombudsman's powers and do not affect the nature of his competence or the lack of enforcement of all his decisions.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs sbarbati's report informs us that statistics for 2006 indicate that of some 3 800 complaints received, more than 90% are from individual citizens, which is certainly an interesting fact. sbarbati always informs us that the majority of complaints come from the larger, more populous countries of the union and tells us that if we consider the population/number of complaints ratio, the figure changes and the countries with the highest number of complaints are luxembourg and the new member countries, malta, cyprus, slovenia. i think this is consistent with the fact that, as far as the ombudsman's work is concerned, it concerns matters of a european nature, of european competence and legislation. it is interesting to note, however, that in my view it would take more than a european ombudsman to have civil ombudsmen working in these countries, and in particular in italy, so much so that i seem to read that more than 95% of the cases examined, in the majority, fall outside the mandate of the european ombudsman himself, as the complaints do not concern the community institution or body. the cases of maladministration concern lack of transparency, inequity, abuse of power, legal error and so on. there is no evidence of administrative inefficiency and injustice in my country, but i am sure that if there were evidence of this and it were brought to the attention of the european ombudsman, italy would be a champion, especially the left-wing administrations in my country. it is not surprising, however, that the ranking clearly shows the abuse of the commission's discretionary powers, and i therefore urge the european ombudsman to be more vigilant in the relations between the citizen, the council, the commission and parliament. finally, i agree that the ombudsman's field of interest should be extended to include the protection of minors, family problems, the protection of personal data, the rights of prisoners, and i therefore agree with the mavrommatis amendment. i do not agree, however, mr mavrommatis, with the call for investigations to be carried out also in the context of the so-called third pillar. i'm sorry, i don't agree with that. i would like to congratulate sbarbati on her efforts with the european ombudsman.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i apologize for having mispronounced my name, and secondly on amendment no 4, i would like to propose that we retain the factual part of the amendment, so to speak, and therefore only the first part: whereas according to the report by the international narcotics control board there is a global oversupply of opiates for medical purposes,mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and to end the amendment here; if there are no objections, we are in favour of this.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, sorry, it is only here also for a factual substitution, as the afghan law is cited substitute with the appropriate words of the law:whereas the afghan constitution states that the state shall prevent all types of cultivation and smuggling of narcotics and whereas afghanistans 2005 counter narcotics drug law provides for the eventual licensed production and distribution of controlled substances in afghanistan;
the next item is the explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with this report mr cappato has proposed and has made it known that the european parliament is in favour of experiments in converting opium cultivation for criminal use into opium cultivation for therapeutic use in the care of the sick in afghanistan. i must say that i voted against because it starts with the farmer growing poppy in the fields and ends with death and crime, which is linked to those who, consciously or unconsciously, have fallen into the net of this terrible scourge of humanity. it is a pious illusion, in my view, for those who voted for this report, that we can get what is currently being done illegally, i.e. opium cultivation in afghanistan, to be cancelled out just because it is allowed and authorized for beneficial purposes.
the agenda shall include the intentions and the voting corrections. (the sitting was suspended at 1 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i apologize for the delay. i had asked to speak earlier and, despite standing up and signaling several times, i was not honored. i just want to understand. i was going to ask, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, for a statement from the council and the commission on the incidents in the black sea. i do not understand, after a lack of intervention by those who were for and those who were against, what was decided. that was my intention, i repeat, and i had made this request. i was going to ask the presidency: i would like to see a statement from the council and the commission on the serious accidents in the black sea. i simply ask you to clarify what the house has decided to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case. i stood up and gave a signal, even acoustically, and i was given a signal by the presidency to desist, and i stood up several times. i ask you to put this initiative on the agenda and to ensure that there is a statement from the council and the commission. the commission itself, at the beginning of the sitting, said that there was a request from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe. i do not see why we should not discuss this merely because of an inadvertent misunderstanding of a request. i asked to speak, no one noticed me, i even stood up.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, once again i would like to thank the rapporteur for the useful work done. i also thank you all for the debate, which shows and confirms that there is a need for the modernisation of the statues of the euratom supply agency. we adopted the proposal on the statutes of the agency in the spring of this year. your report will enrich the initial proposal of the commission. for this reason, i can assure you that, during the final discussion in the council, the commission will support most of the amendments tabled by parliament. once again, i thank you for your support and your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda includes the commission statement on the application of directive 2004/38/ec on the right of citizens of the union to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, we followed very closely the evolution of the situation in italy. we are worried about the growing street crime and wish to express, first of all, our sympathy to the families of individuals who have been victims of criminal activities. we welcome the bilateral cooperation measures announced last week by the prime ministers of italy and romania. we will ensure that the rights of romanians are respected, as all citizens’ rights should be. under the transitional arrangements to the complete opening of labour markets, romanian nationals must apply for job permits in certain member states. we will make sure that member states observe the principle of non-discrimination in their national legislation and administrative practice. the free movement directive, directive 2004/38/ec, allows for the expulsion of european citizens when an individual represents a genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat affecting one of the fundamental interests of society. this is a decision to be made on a case-by-case basis and in the full respect of the guarantees of substance and procedure. in cases of immediate expulsion, the urgency must be duly justified. under the directive, the host member state may expel european citizens also if they no longer fulfil the conditions attached to their right of residence. inactive union citizens may be expelled if they become an unreasonable burden on its social assistance system; in other words, if they do not have legal financial means to guarantee proper daily living conditions. in this case, expulsion shall be based on objective elements and a ban on re-entry cannot be imposed. expelling european citizens is an extreme measure. it is a limitation of one of the basic freedoms of the treaty. measures should be taken to strike the right balance between the right to free movement and the duty of each member state to react in the interests of honest citizens when the legal conditions to stay are not fulfilled. the italian authorities officially notified the commission of the text of the decree on 7 november 2007. the decree must be adopted by the italian parliament within 60 days. as you know, the italian parliament has the power to change the text of the decree. the position of the commission on the italian legislation transposing directive 2004/38/ec will, of course, depend on the final version of the law as it emerges from the italian parliament. the decree entered into force immediately, but the directive is sufficiently precise in its terms to be directly applicable by national courts. this means that if a union citizen considers that the individual expulsion measure taken against him or her does not respect the guarantees laid down in the directive, he or she can appeal before the national courts. in case of doubt on the application of european law, as you know perfectly well, national courts are obliged to refer the issue to the european court of justice. we will continue to monitor the situation, pending the examination of the decree by the italian parliament. we are also worried about some racist and xenophobic demonstrations that have accompanied the introduction of the decree in italy. roma groups are the largest minority in europe. roma communities throughout europe face difficult conditions. there is a long past of persecution. this situation leads to human suffering and social tension. inclusion requires efforts by everyone concerned, including the roma themselves. specific protection must be given to individuals, children and women especially. criminals of whatever nationality very often exploit particularly vulnerable people such as children. roma children face double discrimination. firstly, they are victims of stereotypes and prejudice. but also they may face violations of their fundamental rights, even from within their communities. we see, too often, neglected roma children on our streets or living in poor, often tolerated conditions in modern european favelas. children may be brought into a life of crime or forced to beg. roma schoolchildren tend to leave school early without qualifications for the future or skills to care for themselves and their families. if we only look at a group when we consider how to protect fundamental rights, then we risk missing the protection of individuals within that group and we miss the opportunity to break the circle of wrongdoing and fear. we are ready to assist italy and romania in making the best possible use of all possibilities already existing under european law and under european funds. it should be also stressed that roma communities live in many other member states such as france, ireland, spain, slovakia, the czech republic or hungary. the social inclusion of roma communities can also be further improved in these member states, notably through the structural funds, which can be quite helpful. european funding, specifically targeted at the needs of roma communities, is already available in areas such as social inclusion, the fight against discrimination, regional development and education. in the previous programming period, the structural funds made available more than eur 275 million for roma-related projects. an additional eur 60 million was made available to romania and bulgaria between 2004 and 2006, under the pre-accession instruments. the funding of roma-related projects will continue in the structural fund programming period 2007-2013. the european racial equality directive (2000/43/ec), which covers roma people, provides for protection against discrimination in employment, education, social security, health care, goods and services, and housing. we are actively ensuring that this legislation is applied across the eu. finally, as much as the commission is not prepared to tolerate any form of discrimination or intolerance of its citizens, we equally will support member states who lawfully protect their citizens from criminality, whether they are nationals or citizens of the union in general. after all, freedom, justice and security go hand in hand.
i am pleased that commissioner frattini has presented the report in its entirety and that he has put forward the proposals, ideas, content and values he has defended. the reunification of europe has certainly led to an increasing movement of citizens within the union, which in no case has turned into a real migratory event. this is the case with the presence today in italy of about half a million romanian citizens. the union has taken steps, by means of directive 2004/38/ec, to ensure that the rights of community citizens who migrate from one country to another are respected while member states are entitled to expel community citizens who do not comply with certain rules: i am referring to the ability to provide for oneself and the risks to public security and order. unfortunately, the community directive has been applied in italy in a deficient and delayed manner. the result: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. unfortunately, there have been crimes that have shocked public opinion, committed by people who had a passport from a european country. this has provoked reactions of unacceptable xenophobic violence. the violence and murders committed in italy must be strongly condemned and all the families of the victims must be in solidarity. the violent and xenophobic reaction must also be condemned, but unfortunately, when the rules are not applied, when the laws are not applied, citizens risk taking justice into their own hands, and this is frankly unacceptable. the states have very clear responsibilities, as do the local authorities. unfortunately, in rome, despite the many complaints, no action has been taken on social realities as such, which really resemble favelas, where roma citizens live, they are realities where action had to be taken in advance and sometimes the interventions made late do not help solve the problems when they have unfortunately exploded. we are not in favour of mass expulsions, and every citizen who commits a crime is personally responsible. it is not a question of nationality or ethnicity. there is certainly a need for further cooperation between romania and italy. it is no coincidence that the ppe text was signed by myself and my colleague mr marinescu. there is also a specific issue concerning the roma population. it is not a matter for the romanian people, and that is why we are calling for the establishment of a special agency for the social integration of the roma communities, in short, a european agency to show that europe is doing its part to solve a problem which otherwise risks arousing ever greater social alarm.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank commissioner frattini for his detailed report this evening. in my view, directive 2004/38/ec is a valid reference point, firstly to ensure the full exercise of the right of movement of union citizens, to avoid any form of discrimination, to affirm the principle of full integration. it is a directive which seeks to protect, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, both the rights of those who establish themselves in a member state and the rights of nationals of the host member state. maximum protection for those who work, for those who study, for those who want to integrate, but also severity for those who do not respect the rules. and we have a duty to give this matter serious thought in this parliament. there are not only rights, but also duties and rules which must be respected. we cannot continue to ignore the fact that there is a percentage - certainly a minority, a very minority - but there is a percentage of people who move to other member states and have no intention of reporting their presence in the host member states, simply because they do not want to be recognised, because they have no intention of respecting the rules and working legally. the problem of those who move and enter a member state determined to put themselves on the margins of social life must be seriously addressed. the instruments can certainly be improved, but some are already available to the member states, starting with directive 38, which must first be implemented in a timely, full, rigorous and practical manner in each member state. it might also be desirable to improve the directive by requiring that the host citizen declare that he is present in the host member state within a certain period of time and also requiring the member states to impose penalties on those who do not comply with the time limits and procedures. in italy, for example, the implementing decree of the directive sets out the procedures and time limits, but there are no penalties and therefore the rule is in fact completely ineffective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. but i want to make it clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections. and there must also be rules for those who do not work, for those who live off the grid and can therefore represent an excessive burden on the community of the host member state. i would like to conclude with a nod to roma children and the case of italy. in italy there are about 50,000 children, at least 50,000 exploited children. these are roma children, forced to beg, unvaccinated children, children who do not go to school, children who live in absolutely deplorable sanitary conditions. i would remind everyone that about a week before mrs reggiani was killed in rome, in the same slum, from the slum where mrs reggiani's killer came from, a two-month-old roma girl froze to death in the capital of italy, in a major european capital. so, i really close by saying, is that integration? is this respect for human rights? we have a duty to take the matter seriously, without hypocrisy, and we have a duty to say that the law is the same for everyone.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini, on 2 november you said: "what you have to do is simple: you go to a nomad camp in rome, say on the christopher columbus, and you ask the people there, "what do you do for a living? " if he answers, i don't know, he'll be arrested and sent back to romania". that is how the european directive works, simple and inescapable, and then we must proceed to the immediate destruction of the nomadic camps. you also said that the uk, france and germany routinely expel unemployed citizens and that italy does not and therefore has misapplied directive 2004/38/ec. i am speaking to you as the co-chairman of a european political group and i am addressing you as a european commissioner, so we must absolutely leave aside the fact that in italy we are probably involved in political forces in different coalitions, but here we are operating and must operate as europeans. i think that these statements which you have made to the messenger are unacceptable and are in total contradiction with what you have said to us here tonight. which one of the two frattini is the real one? the one who said that we should go and destroy the roma camps or the one who told us, as the directive rightly says, that citizens can be expelled on the basis of very precise rules and even more precise guarantees? i would kindly ask you to answer this question. as regards the question of the other countries of the european union, i would like to know from you what the situation is. we have done some research and found that none of the countries mentioned - the united kingdom, france and germany - have ever turned away community citizens on economic grounds, which are prohibited by the directive, and that no citizen has ever been found to be an undue burden on the economic system of the country of residence. i would therefore like to know whether you are aware of this, because it seems to me to be a very important element. i very much agree that this directive provides a precise framework, and i think it could have been more precise and better done, and i also believe that the case or cases we are discussing today have symbolic value in the way this directive is to be applied and in the way member states perceive and see enlargement and free movement, which is a value that is absolutely a priority for us. i would like to say, mr tajani, mr mauro and mr angelilli, that a country where the mafia has a business of some 90 billion euros and where things like what happened in the last few days are happening perhaps has very few lessons to teach on immigration.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. a murdered woman, who is in our thoughts and our pain; roma citizens and romanians shamelessly attacked; the european union is a great example of the european union's commitment to the european union, and we are all very proud of the fact that it has been able to take part in the european union's work in the last few years. from tragedies we have learned dramatically the importance of laws that enshrine rights: there is no security without rights! this is the value of our laws, our treaties, even our economic treaties, which enshrine the value and the right of mobility and residence, which are precisely rights that european citizens can demand and not concessions, which can be regulated but not denied, and indeed european laws are clear: the right to mobility and residence for all, excluding expulsion for reasons of national security, strictly individual and never collective, with guaranteed possibility of defence; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's citizens are not deprived of their right to move freely, and that they are not denied for economic reasons, because poverty cannot be a stigma and a discriminatory violation of the rights of citizens. it is article 27 of the directive, it is the law, all the more sacred because it concerns rights, and the law applies to everyone, first of all to the commissioners. and i must say, commissioner frattini, that in your many statements here in the chamber i have struggled to find the spirit and the letter of the laws, and it seemed to me that i could not find either one or the other. there are still too many dead in this europe. in italy a woman has died after being raped by a romanian citizen. the pain is great and those who killed must pay the price, but this has nothing to do with the roma people or the romanians who have seen some of their citizens suffer undignified aggression. the fault is individual, never collective! many migrants die trying to reach our europe. they're dead people who are attacking us and calling us to account. these pains require us to make europe a land of law and rights, of sacred laws, especially when they speak of reception, which is the basis of security. we want you to solemnly reaffirm this in this house by a vote so that there can be no more misinterpretations of our european laws.
i would ask the members who are speaking to refrain from quoting other members for the simple reason that they can ask for further speeches by appealing to the rules of procedure. so, in order to allow the debate to proceed properly, i would ask everyone to address themselves in general terms by citing the facts. it is clear that the appeal is not valid as far as the commissioner is concerned, who will have every right to explain his reasons at the end of the debate.
on behalf of the its group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini, i should like to begin by thanking you for your constant presence, your commitment and also for the generous availability which honours the nation you represent, but i regret that the same cannot be said of other representatives of the italian institutions and i am sorry to say so. the schengen treaty is being discussed and has been discussed, and minister amato thought that, despite the urgency of the serious social disorder which the free movement of citizens across the union undoubtedly causes in italy, it would be good to deal with something else. it should do something to prevent social disorder from escalating as badly as it is in our country. it does not seem to be concerned with this, however, given the spread of crime at all levels in italy, from the crimes of so-called social alarm to organized crime, to the continuous arrival of illegal immigrants in our country and above all the less obvious phenomenon in the media, which is the failure to return to the countries of origin of those who come to italy with study, work or tourist permits. the current italian government and the minister of the interior are ignoring the seriousness of the crime which in italy is undeniably largely due to foreigners, including community nationals, nomads or supposedly such as was highlighted a few months ago by the report of prefect serra to the italian parliament. but this italian government, which is mortifying and exhausting a people, and not only that, this government which is incapable of understanding social discomfort and preventing it, let alone curing its ills, does not even think of - it would be worth asking in what minds - admitting the failure of the current migration policies and the failures also in the application of the union directives, of which the one concerning directive 38 of 2004 is emblematic in our case. in view of its failure to comply, the italian government regrets the difficulty of determining the exact date of the receipts. it is obvious that the schengen treaty will increase these difficulties immeasurably, and it is equally obvious that my party and i would like to abolish the schengen treaty. moreover, the many incidents of political hooliganism which have repeatedly occurred in italy in recent months, in many cases to the detriment of my party, and in which the epigones of anarchist and more cunning communism, well protected by the representatives of the so-called institutional left, have been the actors, have always been ignored by minister amato. unfortunately, minister amato or president prodi, as well as many mayors, the mayor of rome in particular, do not live in the working class districts, in contact with regular nomadic camps or not, do not use public transport, do not suffer from the bullying, violence and abuse that even visitors from the union occasionally, i would say often, commit in italy. these irresponsible people are not interested in social solidarity and in the name of that solidarity they are afflicting a people with their insane choices. the european union, rather than lamenting the fact that italy has not asked for the funds, should take note of what president barroso rightly said: 'if a state allows favelas to grow on its territory, what do you want the commission to do?' that's why minister amato prefers not to show up at merit meetings. the italians would like to do the only right thing: to go back to the polls and send this government to that country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is right that our parliament should also send our condolences to the family of mrs reggiani. i too would like to condemn the recent statements by commissioner frattini, who in the interviews already mentioned confused his role as commission representative with that of opposition figure, stealing the job from mr tajani, when he would have done well to use his prestigious position to calm the national political climate. i regret making this observation because we have often stressed the correctness of commissioner frattini's proposals and initiatives. commissioner frattini knows full well that, as has been pointed out by some of his colleagues, there is no community text which provides for the automatic expulsion of nationals of other member states for economic reasons. the recent measures taken by the italian government are in line with the european directive, respecting its spirit and reinforcing certain aspects which are important in the light of the situation in italy and the commitment of all the italian institutions - and i say this to tajani, angelilli and other friends of the opposition - from the city of rome, to the regions, to the smallest municipalities. i hope that the european parliament will reaffirm its rejection of the principle of collective responsibility which is being unnecessarily used to foment hatred and violence in the heart of europe. what we must reaffirm instead is the need to fight against all forms of racism and xenophobia as well as against all discrimination based on nationality and ethnicity, and we have a main road, which is respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is therefore important to work, as called for by the prime ministers of italy and romania, for greater social integration of the least favoured populations and for cooperation between member states, both in terms of managing the movements of their own migratory flows and through development programmes and social support through the structural funds. what we have to do for the future is simple: none of us should forget that immigration is a resource, it is a piece of our future, but it is absolutely necessary to govern it. i therefore propose that the member states should break with the tide and define closer european coordination for the regulation of migration flows within the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in these days, in the face of the murder of giovanna reggiani, brutally attacked by a romanian citizen and to whom we extend our condolences, many political forces in italy have brought europe into the limelight, but what has happened is certainly not attributable to enlarged europe, to schengen or to the european directives on free movement within the european union. there are problems which come from far away, which deserve a less superficial approach and which cannot be dealt with by a hasty decree to calm public opinion. that is why we must be careful and bring the whole thing within a plan of legal civilization which cannot be bent to emotions or emergency logic. the rule of law requires that criminal liability be individual and not attributable to collective categories. to deviate from this principle would be a dangerous precedent which would lead to the criminalisation of certain nationalities of migrants. the effects that may follow are also worrying. we have seen a climate of witch-hunting against romanian and roma citizens in italy, with punitive expeditions: even children in schools have been the object of ridicule and abuse. the demand for security is of course legitimate, but we cannot fall into the trap of polemics and artificially created instrumentalisms to fuel hatred and xenophobia for purely partisan purposes. if politics were to return to the path of objectivity, it would be able to indicate to public opinion that italy is not a country overrun with criminal migrants. immigration is certainly a matter which requires european coordination, but europe cannot be invoked merely to restrict the freedom of movement of migrants. the role of commissioner franco frattini is to blame, who has not missed an opportunity to get involved in national political polemics by expressing opinions contrary to european directives. it would be more useful if the commissioner proposed a series of integration policies, for example by starting from the increase in the resources of the integration funds and the need to free national reception policies from the constraints of the stability pact, as has already been done for security policies. it is also very important to push for the coordination and strengthening of judicial and police instruments to tackle organised crime and human trafficking, a heinous crime which has now become transnational. the discussion on the application of directive 2004/38/ec is the right context in which to bring the debate on the expulsion of romanian citizens back into its proper legislative framework, it is an opportunity to reiterate that the free movement of romanian citizens is an inalienable right of european citizenship. the directive is clear: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not prevented from coming to the community.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner frattini, i should like to thank you for your courage and consistency, which leaves no room for hypocrisy, which unfortunately often prevails in our institutions and which we have also heard to some extent here. mr guidoni, the decree you have attacked is the decree of the government you support, so let us be clear here too. the recent events in italy, particularly in the city of rome, are only the latest in a long chain of events that are often overlooked or ignored. europe is founded on the principles of freedom, respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, and the italian people have always shown their support for inalienable values such as non-discrimination, equality between peoples and democracy. however, i think it is right to add, using the data provided in the official report of caritas in cooperation with the italian ministry of the interior, that it describes a very serious situation, which has been determined after 1 january 2007, with a migration of romanian citizens to italy of a size that has no precedent within the european union. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. in 2006 alone, 17,900 romanians were arrested in italy. it's not the fault of a people, it's the fault of people. but we have to think about it, and then we automatically ask ourselves: why did the italian government not approve the decree implementing directive 2004/38/ec earlier? and why does the decree not apply the provisions of the directive on conditions of residence for more than three months? why has the ministry of the interior not ensured adequate enforcement measures in relation to both the conditions and requirements to be met and the checks and controls and possible repatriation of community citizens found to be in breach of the mandatory conditions laid down in the directive? this laxity has given rise to a permissiveness that goes beyond any logical understanding and has generated an indiscriminate influx of indigent citizens who daily feed an incubator of despair, which pushes to the inevitable shortcut of non-compliance with the law. the mayor of rome, for example, tolerated the establishment of hundreds of roma camps and slums where the most basic human rights are compromised and where hygiene and personal dignity are trampled underfoot. it was an act of grave lightness that we are now paying painfully for, and then he decides to dismantle them. we are in favour of solidarity and acceptance, but in compliance with the law, the rule of law and public order.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the government of each member state of the union has the right and the duty to take vigorous action to combat crime in order to ensure the safety of its citizens and of those who live and work in the country. the debate we are having today must avoid the double temptation of emotionalism and instrumental political reaction. a draft law known as the 'security package' has been under preparation in italy for some time. the dramatic events of late october prompted the government to turn it into a law, which immediately began to produce its effects. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the procedure. let us look at the substance of the matter and we will understand that the content of the decree is absolutely balanced: it is a matter of striking at those who, by their behaviour, threaten civil coexistence, compromise public security and also harm all those who come to italy to improve their living conditions by their work. it is therefore not a decree against anyone, but in favour of those who come to italy to integrate in full respect of our laws and who are still the vast majority. the presence in italy, as in any other country, of those who do not accept the rules makes integration more difficult for others as well. i mean, you're triggering rejection dynamics that complicate the mechanisms of integration. the italian government has therefore responded promptly, and on the other hand it has taken steps to avoid instrumental political positions and dangerous signals, such as punitive expeditions or rounds of fire, which would send a misleading, even perverse, message to public opinion.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that i must also use my usual sincerity and frankness with this parliament, which i respect very much, but which does not shy away from responding to statements and considerations with which i do not agree. i did not deal with this matter by starting with actions and statements a few days ago. many of you remember a line or two from an interview i gave, among many others, on november 2nd last year. i began to deal with this matter very seriously many months ago. i did so at the request of the italian mayors, who, as is well known, belong to all political parties, mainly the centre-left. the italian mayors' conference - and since the words i have spoken have been carefully quoted, and i will say this too, i have also noted them - an important meeting that took place many, many months ago, on 19 may, the italian mayors forcefully raised the problem of safety in cities and raised it to europe in a meeting with the italian minister of the interior. on may 19th, minister amato said at the end of the meeting with the mayors: "it is a tragic mistake to think that the problem of security is a problem of the rich who have something to defend; it is a phenomenon which, if not addressed, makes the citizen feel that he is not defended, an enemy of those who are more similar to him". these are the words that inspired the appeal to the european commission: may 19th of last year. on 23 june, during the assembly of the anci - which italian members of parliament are well aware of - the national association of italian municipalities, chaired by the mayor of florence - launched the plan for the reception of roma people, after a meeting i had had a few days earlier with representatives of the assembly of italian municipalities, and that meeting in bari launched the plan for the reception of roma people, to ensure that european funding, which had not been requested by italy until then, was requested to meet the reception purposes. the italian mayors decided that the integration system should be based on the values of reciprocity. i quote again, "we have a duty to welcome and integrate in return for the duty to accept the rules of our country". this was the position i had taken for many, many, many months, since before the summer, when a subsequent event promoted by the mayors of bologna and florence led to a national proposal to criminalize even the window washers, that is, those who clean the car windows, and that the italian mayor of florence - whom you obviously know, is certainly not a person who can be suspected of racist sympathies - even proposed to criminalize the beggar who cleans the car windows. i met the mayors again on that occasion and on 25 october, a few weeks ago, an italian news agency, after the umpteenth meeting of the italian mayors, published a note entitled: "mayors are not in, mayors want the new rules now and say people don't understand the divisions that are being created within the majority". these statements led to an appeal to me by the italian mayors and the italian minister of the interior, because at that time there was no idea that europe had instruments, such as those which were later adopted by decree-law, which could deal with certain situations of objective infringement of the directive. 38 that is why i have started to deal with this matter and i must say frankly to all those who have taken the floor to criticize that phrase: i do not think you will find a single instance in which i have not loyally and positively contributed and collaborated with minister amato, who in italy is responsible for this dossier. i challenge you to prove the contrary, that i refused to cooperate when asked by minister amato and that i did not respond to the legitimate demands that the italian government made of europe, as happened a few days ago. and then a few weeks after these events, when the first data came out, the first data that was published - and i remember it well because i received protests from bucharest, as european commission - from the mayor of rome who stated verbatim that romanians are responsible for 75% of the crimes committed, confusing the fact that it was 75% of the crimes committed by foreigners, so a much lower percentage. many of you will remember that there were street demonstrations in bucharest to protest against these statements, and yet i spoke to the mayor of rome to offer him the action of the european social fund and he wrote me back with a letter, which is obviously on the record, asking for help and support from europe for integration measures. i felt it was my duty to do so and i did. and in conclusion, i do not think that anyone in this chamber can doubt that, beyond what some of you wanted to remember, a point from a specific interview, none of you can forget, i believe and hope, that i have done some things in these years. i have worked and am working to ensure that the schengen area is extended to nine new member states before christmas. what is this if not making freedom of movement even more effective? if this happens, it will also be because of my work, which has been working on this for two and a half years without any fear of saying that the right of free movement is a pillar of the european union. i am not going to be blamed for not wanting this right to be recognized. and the last word goes to romania. i have listened to the romanian members of parliament, and they know better than anyone what i have done personally to help romania join the european union through the reports, the advice and the visits i have made. i think that no one in this house can suspect for a moment that i do not have the greatest respect and the deepest friendship for romania and the romanian people - not for the romanian criminals who are like the italian criminals - but for the romanian people, otherwise i would not have done what i have done in these two years. and i don't think that extrapolating a sentence from an interview is going to change these, which are just facts.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the international public has been shocked by the recent tragic events in rome. i think it is serious that some political forces are trying to exploit this situation for their own ends, even by invoking dangerous and counterproductive returns to the past. community legislation sets certain standards which must be met in all 27 member states, bearing in mind that some countries are easier to reach for geographical and logistical reasons. a system is needed which puts rights first but does not dispense with the duties of individuals: it is precisely the synthesis of these two aspects that underlies the effectiveness of policies in this area. a basic approach is needed which, on the one hand, commits the states to the integration of european citizens in good standing and, on the other, allows the expulsion of those who do not conform to the rules. a challenge, a challenge, in which europe has a fundamental role.
the joint debate is scheduled for: the report by cristina gutiérrez-cortines, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the protection of soil and amending directive 2004/35/ec (com (((2006) 0232 - c6-0307/2006 - 2006/0086 (((cod)) (a6-0410/2007); and the report by vittorio prodi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the thematic strategy for soil protection (2006/2293 (((ini)) (a6-0411/2007)
however, the debate is closed, i am sorry, but that is not possible. i thought you wanted to put an item on the agenda. the debate is closed! let's move on. i'm against this intervention. we cannot go any further with this. i thought mr schultz wanted to put an item on the agenda.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner dimas, i thank you and i would also like to repeat my thanks to the rapporteur, mrs gutiérrez-cortines, for the work we have done together, and i hope that it has also contributed to the improvement of the text. the directive under discussion today was designed to protect european soil from phenomena such as desertification, erosion and salinization, which are increasingly linked to climate change and specific soil pollution. paradoxically, despite the many regulations on the use and release of pollutants into the environment, there has been no directive to date which provides for any kind of obligation to take responsibility for identifying and certifying severely polluted soils and then proceeding to remediate them. but it is precisely this element that seems to bother some people in this house and elsewhere, who are crying out against the attack on subsidiarity, against the suffocating presence of the european institutions which are planning with proposals such as the soil directive to harm a category of farmers or entrepreneurs by unfair rules, by unfair rules, by new administrative and/or financial burdens. what are we talking about? we are talking about the same directive which provides for a period of 25 years for the member states to identify on their national territory all areas which are presumed to be severely polluted, and therefore compromised for various uses, both public and private, all areas at serious risk of desertification, erosion, salinization, loss of compactness. we are talking about indications to enable systematic clean-up work to be organized, where necessary, in the collective interest. we are talking about protecting human health alongside the environment. we are talking about a framework directive which not only respects the autonomy of the member states but does not even impose such onerous measures. so why is there so much reluctance on the part of some member states and parliament - the usual two or three - to attack, to accept a list of activities and sites to be subjected to mandatory scientific investigation by the national authorities? what's so bad about them? why such a dislike when their governments in the council have already accepted the binding nature of the investigation of all sites proposed by the commission in annex ii, and the principle of transparency which must prevail in land transactions? on the other hand, there is an added value of a european approach to soil monitoring activity which will improve the capacity of member states to know their soil and reports to the commission will also be virtually automatic; i'm referring to the satellite tracking. perhaps it is not known that there is already a work done by the commission, the soil atlas of europe, which is a good example of what can be done together. but there is another consideration for a community approach and soil protection and that is the challenge of climate change, a challenge for all of europe. this challenge is the worsening of extreme events, heavy and more intense rainfall, longer droughts, more rainfall and less snowfall, rising sea levels. this implies a duty for us to do soil maintenance, precisely to prevent these challenges: increase water retention times throughout the territory to prevent flooding and promote groundwater recharge, particularly along the coasts to prevent saltwater infiltration, which is more likely due to sea level rise. maintaining forests to control the fire load, worsening droughts, will mean greater risk of desertification in the event of fire. this maintenance of the site will also allow for the further exploitation of renewable energy, hydraulics and biomass. and we must not forget the appearance of the soil, which is the balance of greenhouse gases. i would ask you to think, when you vote on wednesday, of the need, now more than ever, for a strategy and a directive which can guarantee future generations the use, the use and the enjoyment of the same land we now have, each in its own member state, but all subject to the same environmental threats and risks. soil is a resource, a scarce resource throughout europe and we must make this resource as available as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i thank commissioner dimas for his treatment. i say this as a member of a group which is often critical of directives and the commission: that's not the case. this directive is a significant step forward for europe, both in terms of the quality of its policy and its effectiveness. the framework directives on the major natural elements are being supplemented, and soil is being considered as a key element of the biosphere, a fundamental element of environmental and climatic balances. it is no longer a mere platform to be cemented. soil is alive, it absorbs co2, it produces biomass: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. europe understands this. we have had a long and difficult debate in committee, and i thank mrs cristina gutiérrez for her passion. but there is a risk that parliament will make the commission's text worse, and i never like that, i always prefer that parliament should be ahead of the commission. europe must look to the future and the soil is our own soil, the only one we have and which we must protect!
the debate is closed. the vote on the gutiérrez-cortines report will take place on wednesday at 12 noon and the vote on the prodi report on tuesday at 11.30 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/87/ec to include aviation activities in the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading (com ((2006) 0818 - c6-0011/2007 - 2006/0304 (cod)) (a6-0402/2007)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is one of the most serious problems we face. if we want to secure our future, we cannot ignore the environmental issue any longer and we must be prepared to change our lifestyles, particularly in terms of mobility. transport is one of the sectors that contributes most to energy consumption and is the one that is most affected by the use of fossil fuels. air transport is increasingly being included in this sector. in 2004, greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft and attributable to the community increased by 87% compared with 1990. europe is responsible for about half of the co2 emissions from aviation. this is no longer sustainable and serious action is therefore needed, for example by abolishing the tax benefits in this sector. i believe that the commission's proposal for a directive on aviation emission allowances is an indispensable tool for tackling the problems of climate change in a consistent way and we very much welcome the envi report which strengthens the original directive. however, it is important to stress that there are some qualifying points which must be retained in the debate and the vote tomorrow, and i think that the community emissions trading system for all flights, both those arriving and those leaving the union, is important among them, and this cannot be postponed beyond 2010. it is also important that a significant proportion of allowances should be auctioned and the proceeds of such sales should be used to subsidize cleaner transport, for example by taxing environmentally friendly transport, so as to create low-cost tourism using less polluting systems such as the train. the second is to focus on the search for more efficient aircraft engines, more effective air traffic management. i hope that tomorrow the house will not dismantle the advanced compromise which will enable europe to become a leader in the fight against climate change.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, many of the things that have been said by president barroso cannot be shared, especially when he says that we are tough on illegal immigration but very generous and very supportive, and i quote, on integration. so, ok, the directive on sanctions against employers who employ illegal immigrants, but we find no trace in the committees' programme of the legislative measures on legal immigration, which had already been announced to vice-president frattini. there is no indication of the directive on seasonal workers, on highly skilled workers, but also on the opening of legal immigration channels for non-skilled workers from outside the community who are the majority of immigrants in the territory of the european union. we believe that these are also necessary measures to combat exploitation and to ensure the emergence of undeclared work. the reference to a comprehensive and shared approach and the need to avoid 27 different immigration policies can only be agreed, but we expect some more concrete information on this european surveillance system which has been announced in the programme. finally, mr president, i would like to point out that under the new lisbon treaty, from 1 january 2009, many of these matters will be dealt with in codecision with full legislative responsibility of this parliament together with the council and the commission. perhaps it would be useful to prepare the ground for a different quality of cooperation between our institutions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we know the limits and the limits within which the commission operates in its foreign policy, and we therefore acknowledge the efforts made, for example, to ensure the continuity of aid to the palestinian people in the dramatic changes which have taken place since the legislative elections. in this connection we would suggest that the commission should already now prepare possible future scenarios whether the annapolis conference, as we hope, is a success or a failure. the neighbourhood policy has already been mentioned, and frankly we would have expected more than a summary analysis of the progress made as stated in the programme. there is an open debate on the future of mediterranean policy. i do not know whether president sarkozy will want to deal with this issue in his speech today. finally, we would like to ask for greater coherence between the union's internal policies - agriculture, fisheries, trade, immigration - and the policies of development cooperation with the poorest countries, and in particular with africa. finally, we find the reference to latin america very weak. frankly, we would expect a greater centrality in the european agenda, in the relations between the european union and this important continent which is so decisive for choices that affect the environment and also other policies such as trade and energy. so, these are the underlines that i felt i was making on behalf of the group.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should first like to express my thanks to all of you for your comments, whether detailed or general, whether critical or supportive of the commission’s proposal for the work programme for next year. the scope of this discussion illustrates also the scope of all the tasks and missions and activities of the european institutions. it ranges from comments on fisheries policy or fishing agreements with tanzania to the peace process in the middle east – the whole range of activities that we are engaged in. i think also that this debate underlines that the overall objectives that the barroso commission has set itself remain valid and urgent. it has to do with prosperity, security, solidarity and – in everything we do – the role of the european union on the global scene. this also came out very clearly in the last statements. i have now followed this procedure and engaged with the european parliament, in the committees and also here in plenary. i think we can say that the way this procedure has improved has also improved the quality of our proposal for a new legislative and work programme. i appreciate also that all my fellow commissioners have visited their committees; i think that we have appreciated this highly in some of the details that we have been able to add or change in this process. i hope that we can continue to make it even more political, and your comments have shown that we are here to discuss the political content and the overall balance. it also comes out clearly that the various political groups might have different views on this overall balance. i would like to comment on the content in relation to four or five particular issues. first of all these issues come back almost every week on the agenda of the european commission. to start with the lisbon process and the growth in jobs: i think, for the first time, we are getting very visible results. it is not correct to say that this is a total failure and that we cannot see improvements. we have created a clearer focus for the lisbon agenda. we have created more of a political ownership and we have a kind of scoreboard where we make country-specific recommendations – positive or negative comments on what each and every member state does. this continues to be the way forward: more focus, more political ownership, higher visibility of the actions. this is a long-term goal, a long-term objective of the european union, but we have to continue to put pressure on member states to deliver. another area concerns social issues and the social agenda which, judging by their comments, is of concern especially to the pse group in parliament. here, we also had some specific questions on services of general interest. the commission has long recognised the importance of services of general interest and we have had years of debate on this particular issue. we are very pleased that the treaty of lisbon and the protocol on services of general interest have been agreed. next week, and as part of our review of the internal market, the commission will adopt a communication outlining how we will deal with services of general interest. i hope that parliament will study our communication very seriously, together with its accompanying documents explaining how and when state aid rules apply to these services of general interest, and also how public procurement rules apply. let me be clear in saying that the commission does not want to close the debate. it wants the debate to focus on the problems at stake so that we can also concentrate our efforts on providing concrete solutions. so this discussion will continue and we hope for the contribution of parliament in this debate. the other big issue where i thank you for your detailed comments has to do with energy. (the president interrupted the speaker to call for quiet in the chamber.) i will not be able to go into all the details that have been mentioned in this debate; i am sure that the dialogue will continue in the relevant committees and the european parliament as well. just to repeat what is in our proposal: in the energy package are four different initiatives. you have touched upon that because it is a policy paper concentrating on the internal energy market, on security of supply and technological developments. there will be a revision of the oil stocks directive. there will be a complete review of the directive on the energy performance of buildings; this was a particular question during this debate. there will also be a review of the energy taxation directive, as taxation can be used to favour environmentally-friendly consumption. the next issue that we find constantly at the top of our political agenda, not only in the european commission but i am sure also in this house and in all governments around europe, is of course migration. president barroso explained very clearly how we address this issue. i can assure you that almost every week, thanks to our colleague mr frattini, we find this issue on the commission’s agenda, with discussions on stream and proposals on stream to address the issue of migration. you know that the policy on legal migration will not be represented next year because we have already adopted a number of proposals on legal migration, so this is not the main focus for next year. however, there will be two priority initiatives in 2008: there will be a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers and there will also be a directive on the entry, the temporary stay and residence of intracorporate transfers and remunerated trainees. that is what you can expect in this particular area. on the principal position of the commission on these issues, i would just refer you to what president barroso said in the debate. therefore, you will find that these issues remain at the top of our agenda for next year. on the external front – because you also mentioned the whole range of external issues and the activities and events where the european union is expected to participate and play an important role – we have three strategic initiatives for next year. we have a strategy paper on enlargement; we have a series of reports on the progress made in the european neighbourhood policy – since many of you mentioned that – and we also have a communication on concrete follow-up measures to the eu-africa strategy. therefore, we will have ample opportunities to discuss the external issues during next year. i can tell you, since this is the second commission mandate on my part, that i see much more focus – and this has been mentioned in the debate – on implementation. we have a daily struggle to make sure that we focus on implementation, and a legal act is only as good as its implementation. this is where we will continue to focus. i can also tell you that it is not true that we are not reaching out. if we look at the latest eurobarometer figures, they have never been so positive towards the concrete results that we have been able to deliver. when the debate in the european parliament and the concrete delivery become visible and the results become visible to the citizens, that is when we will also see our democratic legitimacy increased, and that is what we have to focus on. we will also add a citizens’ summary to our proposals for next year. before the end of this year we will present a new internet strategy, since some of you have asked for this. at the beginning of next year we will also come with a new audiovisual strategy. it is important that we focus together on a number of communication priorities, and you will see proposals for interinstitutional communication priorities in our work programme. finally, next year is the year of intercultural dialogue, which will be launched under the slovenian presidency at the beginning of january. there will be a prelaunch in december, with participation from the european parliament, and we expect the active involvement of the european parliament throughout the year. i thank you again for this debate. if some issues about which you feel strongly are missing from the legislative and work programme, that does not mean that they have been put aside: the commission will continue to provide monthly planning updates, including initiatives that have not been highlighted or initiatives which become necessary to respond to unforeseen events. the dialogue between you, in the european parliament, and the commission does not stop today: we will continue working together in the positive spirit that has characterised this whole exercise and procedure and our shared ambition expressed in the work programme. i see that we diverge less than we converge and that we have a similar view on the overall objectives and priorities for the year 2008. i also hope that your motion for a resolution will endorse it and we will provide an excellent basis for continued cooperation. (applause)
the next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution (doc. (for details of the vote: see minutes)
in view of the length of the next vote on the peter liese report (a6- 0402/2007) and the need to hold the plenary session at 12.00, i would suggest that the vote on the reports by romana jordan cizelj (a6-0376/2007), pál schmitt (a6-0415/2007) and vittorio prodi (a6-0411/2007) be moved forward and that the vote on mr liese's report be taken after the plenary session. (parliament agreed to the proposal)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking as the next rapporteur for the opinion on the community strategy for health and safety at work. i would like to make it clear that i am in favour of the proposal for a regulation which aims to establish a legal framework for the systematic production of statistics in these fields. i take this opportunity to stress the need to take all the initiatives which help to provide a clearer picture of the situation in europe and in the various member states, on the basis of which the member states can direct the policies which they consider most appropriate. in particular, with regard to the field of occupational accidents in the european union, which is a real scourge in some countries, a more european approach is needed, going beyond the current gentlemen's agreement, providing for the systematic collection of data at defined and timed periods and taking into account studies and surveys by the european agency for safety and health at work and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. only the comparability of data, together with the exchange of best practice and the dissemination of results, can be useful tools for triggering virtuous mechanisms of emulation between states.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the prodi report. europe needs a common soil strategy. soil degradation in europe continues, as existing legislation is not sufficient to combat phenomena such as erosion, loss of organic matter, compaction, salinization, land clearance and contamination. it is necessary to provide a european plan of action and intervention, taking account of national peculiarities and operating within a system of subsidiarity and cooperation with the member states. this is particularly crucial in terms of identifying areas at risk and drawing up programmes of measures. it is also of paramount importance that all 27 member states have a minimum level of legislation in this area and that education and awareness campaigns are implemented.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the liese report. however, i thought i could support some amendments to the original draft, in particular those concerning 2011 as the date for the entry into force of the implementing regulation. this is particularly important to avoid, even for transitional periods, the creation of market distortions within the european union by operators who are in a position of advantage over others. i have also supported some amendments in other areas such as the percentage of allowances to be allocated to the auction or the direction of spending the funds thus raised, provided that this does not constitute a precedent for reducing the financial room for manoeuvre which is the exclusive property of the member states.
the vote on the motions for resolutions will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am also pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of introducing a new system of national registration of vehicles. and this marks a milestone that makes us happy that we are further guaranteeing freedom of movement. this is a great achievement and also points the way towards a single european area. but this is compounded by a certain hesitation on the part of my group, particularly with regard to the external dimension of the schengen area. we are in fact strengthening the external dimension of the schengen area by strengthening the external borders, by a kind of veritable militarization of the external borders in some respects. we are therefore very concerned that while community citizens who are members of the schengen area are granted a wide freedom of movement, access to the area is increasingly being denied to non-community citizens. for this reason we are not happy with this whole process and we also express some reservations about the activation of sis ii. we are very concerned and we think that in this exchange of information, in some cases there are no proper safeguards on sensitive data. that is why we believe that we have today made a very concrete step forward in the construction of european union, but we have also given a rather negative signal about the form and substance of this european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spirit of the schengen treaty is to safeguard the security of european citizens, so it is certainly better to have a few queues at the borders and at the airports than to have free entry together with so many good people, including the worst of the crime which we do not want in our territories. we are calling for checks, for example on romanians, at the frontiers, with compulsory collection of biometric data, including fingerprints. we must know who we are allowing to enter our country and also the exact date of entry, in order to be able, for example, to apply strictly the european directive which allows, as was recently well pointed out, the expulsion after three months of those who have no means of supporting themselves. the commission, chaired by mr prodi, had made commitments to the new member states without taking account in any way of the emergencies which then regularly arose. today they create dramatic security problems and the european union must think not only about the rights but also about the security of european citizens, which is an inalienable right, a natural right. we must now act, and commissioner frattini is rightly giving positive signals in this respect, but we must not forget that schengen must also be concerned, and must do so more and more effectively, with the control of the external borders of the european union. we have nothing against any ethnic group, any people, least of all against our brothers in eastern europe. but we do not want criminals to roam freely in our lands. padua is a land of honesty and work: the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from 6 to 8 december a meeting, a meeting which will be held here in parliament on the initiative of alde and in collaboration with transnational radicals, will discuss these matters, where i think what is missing is some new ideas and strength. perhaps there is a presumption in this, but i would like to ask you, mr president-in-office, commissioner frattini, and you, the president, to pay attention to this and to invite you personally as institutions to pay attention. the problem we are dealing with, the voisinage, the neighbourhood, now this new praiseworthy initiative is surely going to end up once again in a bureaucratic, veiled burden: lisbon, but also say barcelona and all the rest. president prodi had to say everything in presenting the voisinage, everything except the institutions. i'm not going. the problem is different! commissioner frattini said we need it in our area of work. the historical problem is not this, we are sufficiently anthropised, while on the other side of the mediterranean, we need capital, capital for entrepreneurial work, as israel has done for a long time for its desert. so, time is running out, so please really take note of this appointment, and keep in mind that the problem, the addiction is the partnership, the problem is the membership. europe would not have been born if it had limited itself, as was desired, to partnership. the problem is that our europe has limits. i'll let you know. we shall see to it that it is used against european blindness.
the next euromed ministerial conference is certainly important, complex and urgent in view of the tragedy we see every day in our seas. i think it is a pity that ngos have not been involved, which in fact have a lot of experience on the subject of migration, for example, with projects such as microcredit, etc. but in volterra last weekend we met parliamentarians, refugees, refugees, ngos and we launched a charter for the right of asylum and for refugees, a theme which, i believe, is missing from the ministerial conference. we have made a clear distinction between them and migrants, but we have also affirmed the rights of both parties, as enshrined in the geneva convention of 1951 and the international convention on the rights of migrant workers and members of their families, which, i am told, has been ratified by only five of the 37 countries involved in the barcelona process. i hope therefore that the commission and the council will take action to identify the obstacles and to ensure that ratification is sought.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this resolution which helps the democratic life of europe. the european left party, which is now going to its second congress, has always said that in globalisation, but also in this europe, markets, corporate interests and technocratic bureaucracies have come together and democracy has been left behind. it is better for the stronger powers, not for us who think of a different society that expresses the needs of the weaker. this was the sense of mass parties in the past; today, there is a new challenge, that of building parties capable of acting at new levels of conflict and decision-making. parties which rebuild democratic participation and a democratic function of parliament, outside the logic of the great coalitions, of the intergovernmentalism which stifles democratic dialectics. of course, we need to be transparent in the use of funds, but politics cannot be the preserve of the rich.
member of the commission. i agree, i agree. but to count the number of road accidents in developing countries, i cannot afford to do so. so i have to rely on what the governments say. it is obvious that there are accidents, but the lower traffic density, the lower number of vehicles mean that, for example, there are many more accidents due to work, field work, etc. there are a lot of work accidents, that's for sure. as far as road accidents are concerned, i can only rely on what we receive as statistics from the partner countries - when there are statistics. now, if you ask me to fund statistical projects, i will be very reluctant, because i don't think we have the means to do micromanagement for our partners. i think we have to - there is no other way - focus on big policies to be effective. if we start doing micromanagement in all the details, then there is no policy line, then it becomes a touch-all, then there is no strategy, there is no systematic, there is no coherence, there is none of that. the questions you are asking are obviously good questions, and it is good to address them in dialogue with our partners. i must say, however, that to get our partners interested and attentive to these issues is not so easy. i promised mr bowis - he is not here, but i have been promising him for at least two years now and i have been doing so systematically - that i would also include the disabled person component in the gender and child policies. but in the field, i assure you, it's not easy. it is not at all obvious, you have to go back to the charge every time. i agree with everything you say, but i cannot do for the partner countries what they obviously do not seem to be ready to do now. so the commission is insisting on all these points, which are good questions, but it cannot go as far as micromanaging all these elements".
member of the commission. the commission welcomes the meeting of the two leaders on 5 september this year and the agreement on the need for the earliest start of the process leading to a comprehensive settlement of the cyprus problem. our aim is that serious negotiations on a comprehensive settlement under the auspices of the united nations should begin without unnecessary delay. the agreement of 8 july 2006 between the leaders of the two communities on the island should prepare the ground for such talks as a means of facilitating the full resumption of these talks for a comprehensive settlement. on the question of financial aid used by the end of september this year, the total amount contracted under the aid programme for the turkish cypriot community came to eur 24 million – that is, 9% of the total – and the amount tendered came to eur 44 million. a great share of the programme is devoted to infrastructure investments, which require more time to prepare and for which the bulk of payments will take place in the latter part of the programming period, which is due to last until december 2012. notwithstanding the challenges that are posed by the unique political, diplomatic and legal status, the commission considers that the implementation of the aid programme is broadly on track for the moment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner and i would like to stress that the commission is clearly calling on the parties to negotiate at ministerial level, at the highest level, precisely to unblock the situation. of course, the elections in nicosia, greece, scheduled for february, may make positive accelerations difficult at the moment, but it is good to start investing now for the aftermath.
member of the commission. indeed, as mr posselt said, serbia is a key country and that is the reason why we initialled the stabilisation and association agreement last week with deputy prime minister đelić, in the presence of president tadić. that is the first concrete step of serbia towards the european union. on the condition that serbia will achieve full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for former yugoslavia, then we and the member states can sign the agreement which will then become the gateway for candidate status for serbia. thus we are ready, once serbia is ready, to move ahead, and indeed this helps serbia to leave the nationalist past behind and approach its european future.
member of the commission. we are, indeed, working very seriously and very hard to facilitate a negotiated settlement solution. we support ambassador wolfgang ischinger, who is in charge of steering the work of the troika as the european union representative. i think it is important that we focus our minds and our public statements on helping the work of the troika and encouraging the two sides to seize the opportunity to use this last chance, this extra time or injury time, in order to achieve concrete results in the negotiations. like any responsible institution, the european union and its member states, the commission and parliament, have to be prepared for various scenarios, but i would not want to speculate on a failure now. let us focus now on the negotiations, at the same time, as i said, as preparing the missions, both the commission mission and the council’s esdp mission, so that when there is a decision on the status of kosovo we are ready to do our part and carry our responsibilities.
member of the commission. accession negotiations with croatia are at cruising speed for the moment. as you may recall, the talks began on 3 october 2005 or, to be precise, 4 october, because it was late at night or early in the morning, depending on the definition in luxembourg. the screening process was completed one year later, in october 2006, and all 33 screening reports have been submitted to the council. the current state of play is that negotiations have been opened on 14 chapters out of 35, and closed on two chapters. we are moving forward at a steady pace. i would like to add that, on 10 chapters, we have agreed opening benchmarks – or they have been agreed by the council, to be more precise – which have been communicated to croatia. for the moment, we consider only the opening benchmark on justice, freedom and security to be met. however, we hope that the work being done by croatia to meet opening benchmarks will allow us to recommend opening negotiations on a further one or two chapters rather soon. to conclude, what is most important in terms of the next steps is more progress on the most difficult chapters. this mainly concerns those chapters where opening benchmarks have been set. ultimately, the pace of croatia’s progress towards the european union will be determined by its own ability to meet all the necessary conditions on the basis of its own merits.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for this clarification. in my opinion, the progress that has been made is certainly satisfactory, but it could be even better, and as far as i am concerned - i am also a member of the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee - it is the croatian side that is pushing but it does not have the positive response from the european commission, so i would ask it to make a further effort to help croatia to join the european union in 2009.
the agenda includes the commission's statement on the action brought by boeing (usa) against airbus (eu) in the wto.
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the next item is the report by mr carlos josé iturgaiz angulo, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the deliberations of the committee on petitions during 2006 (2007/2132 ((ini)) (a6-0392/2007).
i can assure you that i will report to the bureau on your request for human resources for the secretariat of petitions.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
the report by mr nikolaos vakalis, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the regional impact of earthquakes (2007/2151 (ini)) (a6-0388/2007) is on the agenda.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the motion for a resolution on the regional impact of earthquakes addresses for the first time in such an organic and articulated way the subject of the seismic vulnerability of the union's territories and, consequently, the responsibilities of civil protection. the rapporteur deserves credit for this! i am passionate about this issue and am involved in it, as i live in the most seismically and volcanically vulnerable region of europe, sicily, at the foot of mount etna. i had the honour of being the italian government's emergency commissioner during a recent dramatic eruption of that volcano. i am therefore familiar with the problems and i am also aware of the delay that has accumulated over the years in italy in the policies for the anticipation and prevention of risks, not just of seismic risks, of course. but europe is also lagging dramatically behind on this front. for example, for years i have been calling on parliament and the commission to set up a european civil protection agency with the task of coordinating the efforts of the member states in the management of emergencies, but also with the task of preparing a uniform policy of prevention, forecasting and training of staff and volunteers. finally, today's resolution seems to be moving in that direction. let us be honest, there is still a lack of a culture of civil protection in the european union as a whole, which is often the subject of round tables and electoral commitments, but it is the right to security of each of us. before demanding concrete examples from local actors, provinces, municipalities and regions, europe must show that it is finally willing to turn the page, and i believe that this resolution can be the first concrete step in that direction.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs supports commissioner michel's proposal for a joint declaration on the european consensus on humanitarian aid between our three institutions, but the individual governments of the 27 member states continue to pursue national policy objectives on humanitarian aid which are sometimes very different from those of the european union. the council and the member states must make humanitarian aid a moral and political imperative, inspired by the effectiveness of aid rather than by national or postcolonial interests. we cannot just distribute rice and bread, although necessary! the european union's humanitarian aid must be accompanied by political and diplomatic action which makes respect for international law and especially international humanitarian law a priority for the so-called receiving state. the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence from any active military assistance in humanitarian aid must be protected and strengthened. failure to comply with these principles could cause harm to both humanitarian personnel and affected populations. it is also worth remembering that in humanitarian aid operations particular attention must be paid to the most vulnerable groups of the population, such as women and children.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that in this debate too there have been interventions which have set economic freedom against the guarantee and protection of social rights and the fight against poverty. the opposition between economic freedom and social rights is a thing of the past century, it is no longer the political actuality of our europe. we must ensure maximum rules in economic freedom against monopolies, for the transparency of financial markets, to make environmental pollution pay. of course, this is essential! but on the social rights front, what is preventing us today in our countries from helping the poorest are precisely the old social security systems, which guarantee corporations, organized work and which do not help the unemployed, those who are left out of the guarantees and social protection. in my country, italy, we have a system which at the same time almost obliges people to retire at the age of 58, 59 and at the same time only 20% of the unemployed have social protection. here's the problem with the poorest of the poor: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union.
author of the book. mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i do not need to explain to you the importance of the forthcoming conference of the parties in bali, for which we have asked to hear your strategy and your course of action again. we as the european union are making an extraordinary effort on our own, we may say, but we know that it cannot be decisive. our shared objective is to limit global warming to two degrees below the level of the industrial era, and we know that this is already a high-risk threshold, so much so that it will still be necessary for some parts of the world, for some parts of europe, to adopt an adaptation policy, as has been planned. but if we are to achieve this difficult objective, we know that a new international treaty is absolutely essential. we know that the european union's share of responsibility is limited (14% of global greenhouse gas emissions). a new international treaty that takes account of the changes that have taken place from kyoto to here, in particular the extraordinary, explosive, economic growth of the asian giants: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the last few months the world context has changed politically, economically, culturally, so to speak, from the ipcc reports that will have the final summary at the end of this week, which will be presented in valencia, to the nobel prize awarded to al gore and the scientists of the ipcc. it has changed a great deal in recent months and we can therefore be optimistic, a critical and vigilant optimism, so to speak. i would like to explain in one last sentence the meaning of the resolution we have prepared, which i am sure will be adopted by a large majority in this parliament tomorrow: it is a contribution, a contribution to the negotiators to be stronger in this opening of negotiations. i thank mrs hassi, who, together with the other speakers, was able to summarize it, to prevent it from becoming a christmas tree with everything in it. it is very much aimed at that negotiation and as such we are offering it to you.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this ad hoc committee, which was set up with a very important mandate, has carried out important initiatives of listening and discussion and has provided a useful instrument for europe to play an important role in the 13th conference of the parties in bali. the heart of the proposed policy is clear and strong. we need a political, multilateral approach, based on the un, taking over from the ipcc and looking forward to major changes not only in technology but also in the social model. we need technology transfer, cooperation, a new approach to the environment and development. the 3.20% proposed by the commission and the council is only the beginning, albeit a positive one. we need to think big and look to the future, and the future is not, frankly, a return to technologies of the past, old, dangerous, not shared like nuclear. we must also start thinking about innovative proposals which we ourselves put forward in the parliamentary debate and which are now being taken up with greater authority by important personalities such as chancellor merkel. i am talking about the calculation of emissions per capita, which we proposed together with mr vittorio prodi, and which is very important in the face of the reality that we are told that there is an inequality in emissions today and that they must all be reduced in an equal way.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome commissioner dimas, who will be on the front line in bali. global warming is an urgent, very serious, truly global problem and one that urgently requires a global consensus. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat the effects of climate change, such as the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, the introduction of a new energy tax, and the introduction of a new energy tax. this is not acceptable. that is why i think we should make a more bold proposal. i have proposed an amendment, as has already been mentioned, which can be summed up as 'one person, one emission right' and this was suggested by the german professor lutz and also welcomed by chancellor merkel. in recognizing that everyone has an equal right to behave and to have access to natural resources, it is important that parliament should support this process, which could channel to the developing peoples, through the emissions trading mechanism, a quantity of resources that is much greater than that of international cooperation and more controllable. the commission has also made a commitment to respect carbon stocks, such as equatorial forests. the principle of fairness will have to provide a basis, precisely for a gradual approach which must start from a base to arrive at data which will be possible to issue in 2050. so the grandfathering will have to be gradually reduced in a very decisive way. it is precisely because of this urgency that we must open up activities so that we can quickly reach this final result.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members of parliament for their comments and the interesting debate. i have taken good note of it and will convey your messages to my colleague, commissioner mandelson, who is today attending an international commitment that he could not miss. i am, however, certain that he will give them due consideration. allow me to react to some of the points raised in the debate. while not entering into detail on the different points, i would like to underline that we are in agreement on two most important conclusions. first, that ukraine is a key and valuable partner in the european union’s neighbourhood strategy. we share your key messages concerning the positive economic interdependence, the importance of our energy relations, the field of science, people-to-people relations and the need to deepen and strengthen our economic relations. on the issue of wto accession, the commission is in full agreement that this is a key issue. however, the commission and the member states believe that negotiations on an fta represent a crucial step which needs to be taken as soon as possible. as a consequence the finalisation of the wto geneva process would be sufficient to allow for the setting in motion of the negotiations for a deep and comprehensive fta. we hope that the wto process can still be finalised by the end of this year or the very beginning of 2008. we aim to conclude the most ambitious bilateral trade agreement we have ever entered into. it will also need to address the question of institutional capacities and reform needs, customs, police and the judiciary and the question of corruption in general. on the issue of scientific exchanges and visas, i would like to point out that these will also be covered by the fta. let me also state that increasing trade flows is not a threat for sustainable development. on the other hand, it encourages sustainable development through the adoption of eu standards. on the issue of ukraine’s possible accession to the eu, let me emphasise that neither side is ready for this step. the new enhanced agreement will bring ukraine as close as possible to the eu in as many areas as possible while not prejudging any possible future developments in eu-ukraine relations in accordance with the treaty provisions. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for this good report, which we find to be a balanced report, and we will take due account of its recommendations in our ongoing work with ukraine.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr braghetto, and to the committee on fisheries for this report, which raises the issue of the recovery plan for bluefin tuna. the eastern atlantic and mediterranean bluefin tuna is a key stock for the community. as confirmed by scientific advice, this bluefin tuna stock is now at high risk of collapse. all the states involved in this fishery have agreed to the need for urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the bluefin tuna stock and of the fishery. i am convinced that the recovery plan adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas in 2006 represents a realistic chance for the gradual recovery of bluefin tuna if it is fully respected. therefore, decisive and effective action is immediately necessary at community level. the speed of the implementation of the iccat recovery plan is an absolute must, both for conservation reasons and to safeguard the common fisheries policy’s credibility and the credibility of the eu fishermen themselves. the objective is to have the proposal agreed at the november council. during discussions held in the context of the council preparations, many changes were introduced to the original proposal, some of which go in the direction of your suggested amendments. i am sure that we are in agreement on the objectives of urgently taking measures to eliminate overfishing and to ensure strict compliance with iccat measures, in order to bring the bluefin tuna stock to sustainable levels. this will, at the same time, improve the profitability of the fishing industry in the long term. apart from the benefits to industry, there is also an international political commitment that we are obliged to fulfil. turning now to the report, i appreciate and share the fisheries committee’s view that the community needs to address the excess fishing effort of its fleet. the commission also considers that the annual fishing plan is an effective instrument to avoid overfishing because of the overcapacity of the community fleet. in this context, the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 7 and 8 concerning the establishment of annual fishing plans to ensure a balance between the fishing effort of the community fleet and the quotas. a relevant provision on this issue has been introduced in the presidency compromise. in addition, the commission asks the member states concerned to include in their operational plans a reduction of their fishing capacity, either temporary cessation or scrapping, to ensure that their quotas for 2008 and the following years are fully respected. i recognise that we are asking the industry to make considerable sacrifices, but these are necessary to ensure the long-term sustainability of the fisheries, fleets and coastal communities concerned. the choice is between short-term sacrifice and the collapse of the stock. moreover, i totally agree with you that, in order to alleviate the socio-economic impact that will be caused by the reduction in fishing activity, it is necessary to ensure financial compensation for the industry. a provision on the related financing measure in line with amendment 5 has also been introduced in the presidency compromise. i am aware that there are other concerns. i share many of those concerns and know that they too will need to be addressed. with respect to amendment 3, let me state first of all that i am well aware that the number of cages for tuna fattening has increased greatly since 1990 and that their capacity exceeds the total sum of the tac available. iccat has now adopted a strict regulation in order to ensure the sustainable development of farming activities for bluefin tuna. the next step will be to regulate the number of farms. the commission fully supports the adoption of the recommendation made by the iccat working group on capacity in july 2007. this recommendation proposes the implementation of a freeze on boat fishing capacity and farming capacity for bluefin tuna. we need to wait for the final results of the iccat discussion being held in antalya this week. that is the reason why the commission cannot accept, at this stage, the amendment concerning the limitation of farming capacity. on the derogations relating to fishing areas and minimum size, i would like to remind you of the context within which such derogations were accepted by iccat. all contracting parties have agreed these derogations as part of the package on the recovery plan. these derogations were granted for artisanal fleets and for some seasonal fleets because their impact on catches is insignificant. in addition, these derogations include a series of strict conditions, such as a limited number of vessels, limited catches and designated ports. having said that, the recovery plan may be revised in 2008 on the basis of new scientific advice or weaknesses detected in its implementation. at this stage, the community has a responsibility to ensure that the recovery plan is incorporated in community legislation to ensure its full implementation. in this context, i cannot accept parliament’s amendments on the deletion of the derogations, that is amendments 4 and 6, or amendments 12 and 13 on the renaming of the plan, the modification of the ec quotas and the introduction of a new payback system. these amendments are not in line with the recovery plan adopted by iccat and the iccat rules on payback. similarly, i cannot accept amendment 10 regarding traps, since the proposal does not include measures to address this issue. for the first time, the recovery plan regulates trap activity and this will, in future, enable an evaluation of the impact of this fishing activity on the stock. regarding amendments 9 and 11 relating to the harmonisation of sanctions and the possible closure of a national fishery of a member state where it fails to respect its reporting requirements, let me say that, whereas we fully understand and share the spirit behind this proposal, we cannot accept the amendment in this context, as the proposal does not include measures that address the issue. the issue is one of general policy and the commission will examine it in the forthcoming 2008 reform of the control framework of the common fisheries policy. we consider that documentation and transmission of information to the commission at set times is a crucial element for the success of the bluefin tuna recovery plan, and it is also a prerequisite if we are to monitor the uptake of the eu quota in real time. the commission has therefore opened infringement procedures against all seven member states which take part in the bluefin tuna fishery for shortcomings in data transmission. in conclusion, let me state that we are deeply concerned about the overshoot of the quota by some member states, which undermines the credibility of the community at international level and jeopardises the success of the bluefin tuna recovery plan. at the meeting of the compliance committee, which took place in antalya on 8 and 9 november, the contracting parties – notably the united states and canada – criticised the lack of compliance with iccat rules. as expected, the european community was severely criticised for overshooting the tac in 2007. at the same time, the contracting parties acknowledged the difficulties for the european community fleet in adapting to the reality of the recovery plan, which entered into force in 2007, and welcomed the european community proposal on a specific payback regime. the compliance committee has adopted a specific recommendation concerning a payback system for the overshoot of the ec quota in 2007, which comes to 4 440 tonnes, based on an ec proposal. in accordance with this recommendation, the overharvesting of the european community’s quota in 2007 will result in a yearly deduction of 1 480 tonnes from its annual quota for the period 2009-2011. in addition, the compliance committee agreed that the figure for the european community was provisional and may be subject to review and eventual adjustment as a result of ongoing investigations. this recommendation will be adopted by iccat during its plenary session on 18 november. nevertheless, we have to reassure the iccat parties that the european community will do its utmost to ensure that quotas allocated to the vessels of our member states are scrupulously monitored by those member states and by the european commission, in order to ensure respect for the quota set for 2008 and the forthcoming years. following the adoption of this regulation, the commission is resolved to work closely with the member states to ensure and closely monitor the full implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan. the community fisheries control agency will also play an active role. the agency has started the preparatory work for the coordination of control and inspection activities by member states, with a view to having everything in place for the 2008 bluefin tuna season.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the european commission's plan for the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks, launched by iccat, aims to respond to the scientific community's concerns about the critical situation of the stocks due to excessive fishing effort. it was a plan that was judged differently because of a different perception among scientific experts and fishermen about the need to protect the resource. however, it is considered to meet the needs identified, in particular where it provides for a progressive reduction of the catch quota up to 20% in 2010 compared to 2006, an increase in the minimum size to 30 kg, the provision of a limitation of the fishing period, the strengthening of measures to control and combat illegal fishing. in particular, the work carried out in the committee was intended to strengthen certain lines of the plan by proposing: to provide for and encourage the submission of fishing plans by member states in the framework of fisheries agreements, even if the stock is in good biological condition, since one of the main problems is the overcapacity of the fleet in relation to the available quotas; to establish in each member state a balance between the capacity of its fattening farms and the quotas at its disposal; to eliminate derogations for both fishing zones and minimum sizes: they are contrary to the indications of all scientific experts and to the opinion expressed by the majority of the member states. the derogations are not biologically justified, since the mediterranean and atlantic stocks are unique, they introduce severe distortions in the competitive mechanism, they lead to increased fishing in those areas even by the fleet not traditionally concerned and they reduce the effectiveness of controls. to encourage member states to comply with their obligations to submit data and information to the commission, by ending national fishing activities when member states do not provide catch data; to develop a plan for the rehabilitation of atlantic bluefin tuna and the recovery of discontinued tuna in the mediterranean in order to preserve a sustainable and highly selective tuna fishery; provide for financial compensation from the european fisheries fund to be paid to seafarers during periods of fishing closure in order to safeguard and protect the socioeconomic balance of fisheries undertakings and workers; harmonise the sanctioning measures in order to avoid differences between the different member states in the implementation of this regulation. finally, the infringement procedures opened in recent months against some member states for failure to respect the quotas allocated in 2007 are certainly a necessary and proper step, but it should also be remembered that the current provisions are due to enter into force this year. the commission is also aware that the management of the resource is particularly complex, particularly in areas where there is strong competition from other non-eu fleets, particularly in the mediterranean, and calls for greater respect for the principle of reciprocity to ensure the loyal pursuit of the objectives set by iccat. these measures will only be effective if their principles and provisions are applied by all eu and non-eu countries. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues in particular for the work they have done together.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr braghetto, on the excellent work he has done in the committee on fisheries, which has enabled us to put forward a balanced text for tomorrow's vote and which, also on the basis of past experience, brings certain improvements to the regulation on the recovery of bluefin tuna. the abolition of the quota derogations for tuna, which were previously maintained in some cases, and for catches in the eastern atlantic or the adriatic, is in my view one of the major successes of this parliamentary change. such derogations would not only be unjustified from a biological point of view, since the mediterranean and atlantic stocks are unique, but would even risk introducing serious distortions in the competitive mechanism by inducing fishing to intensify in those certain areas not subject to restrictions. it would also make the checks more difficult, and they would certainly be less effective. i also agree with the rapporteur that fishermen should be guaranteed financial compensation during the period of forced closure and i also welcome the idea of a tuna rehabilitation plan. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given the possibility to adopt a common fisheries policy. although the proposal for a regulation tackles the problem of controls more decisively than in the past, there is still a lack of consistency in the application of the legislation in the various member states, which i believe is correct. i think that more cooperation between the member states is needed in order to harmonize national laws on enforcement measures, and my amendment is moving in that direction. but there is one more knot to untie: the management of bluefin tuna in the mediterranean should be addressed through a comprehensive strategy and agreed with the other countries not members of iccat but fishing in the mediterranean. i am thinking, for example, of the japanese fleets, otherwise the objectives of the regulation will be frustrated. i therefore hope, and i conclude, that the committee on fisheries will vote in favour of the text as it stands.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members of parliament for the interesting points they have made. what has emerged from this debate is recognition of the fact that we share a common objective, which is that of effectively addressing the precarious situation of bluefin tuna. the best way of addressing the poor stock status is to implement the iccat recovery plan. i thus thank parliament for its proposal regarding national fishing plans, which is an effective tool for addressing compliance on overcapacity. on the issue of derogations, the commission cannot modify the contents of the plan adopted by iccat. all the contracting parties have agreed to those derogations. let me remind you that the derogations were granted for artisanal fleets and for some seasonal fleets because their impact on catches is insignificant. furthermore, those derogations include a series of strict conditions, such as a limited number of vessels, limited catches and designated ports. having said that, the recovery plan may be revised in 2010 on the basis of new scientific advice or weaknesses detected in its implementation. as regards the point made by mrs miguélez ramos, who wanted a further extension to the two specific instances in the atlantic and in the adriatic, these are specific, small and inconsequential cases. to extend them to cover other areas necessitates a change to the iccat recovery plan agreement. that certainly cannot take place this year. we do not want to reopen the iccat plan. a revision is scheduled for 2008 but, given the criticism of the two derogations, i believe it will be extremely difficult to extend them even further. overcapacity will be addressed through the national plans to be submitted by the member states, which will have to balance capacity with catch. in addition, in our discussions in the council, we have managed to introduce enhanced control measures to allow for better compliance. furthermore, in 2008 we will be concentrating our efforts on the reinforcement of controls in general. we are also insisting that, under the european fisheries fund, funds are committed for the decommissioning of vessels in those member states where there is overcapacity, in particular with regard to bluefin tuna fisheries. on the question of ensuring that other fishing vessels comply with iccat regulations, which is to say fishing vessels belonging to third countries, the iccat provisions apply to all iccat partners, and we expect all of them to adhere to the terms and conditions of the bluefin tuna recovery plan. if they do not, we will take this up with them within iccat and bilaterally. if they refuse to honour their commitments, then we will consider other measures that can be taken. regarding the question of overfishing by two countries, i have already said that we support the national fishing plans, and this features in the presidency compromise, which i hope will be endorsed by all member states at the november council. the amounts overfished have to be repaid, and this was agreed to in antalya. the result will be a yearly deduction of 1 480 tonnes for the period 2009-2011. compensation with regard to states underfishing will take place with effect from 2008.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. the braghetto report contains key ideas for the implementation of the bluefin tuna recovery plan. this plan imposes severe restrictions on fishing, motivated by the need to protect stocks of an endangered species. the initiative is likely to be ineffective, however, if the european union does not take measures to offset its socioeconomic impact. the report has the merit of highlighting this shortcoming by proposing appropriate instruments to implement the recommendations of the commission and iccat effectively. in terms of socioeconomic aspects, tuna fishing is a traditional activity, providing thousands of families with an exclusive source of income: the total closure must be accompanied by financial compensation from the eff for the operators. it is also essential that the member states apply sanctions against illegal fishing, which is the real cause of the depletion of stocks. there's no point in targeting honest fishermen without the tools to stop the predators in the sea. finally, it is essential to require reciprocity from third states: it is not worth sacrificing our operators to protect the species if other countries, and i am referring to libya, turkey, but also china and japan, do not apply equally severe restrictions in their seas. they would have a competitive advantage over european operators, but the problem of depopulation of tuna would not be solved.
the agenda includes the report by alexandru athanasiu, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on quarterly statistics on job vacancies in the community (com (2007) 0076 - c6-0090/2007 - 2007/0033 (cod)) (a6-0335/2007).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the members who spoke for their comments, which i will certainly convey to my colleague, commissioner mccreevy. if i can pick up on a number of points that have been raised: regarding the need for legislative intervention, let me say that the 2005 commission recommendation on online music licensing has already brought about significant progress in the marketplace. the recommendation has given collecting societies in europe an incentive to set up eu-wide licensing platforms that make their repertoire available for online music shops across europe. let me cite three relevant examples. the uk and german societies have set up a platform for eu-wide licensing of the emi repertoire, celas. the uk and the spanish societies are cooperating on a platform that will manage the anglo-hispanic repertoire at eu level, and the french and spanish societies have announced a joint licensing platform that grants eu-wide access to the french-hispanic repertoire. in these circumstances, the commission does not see the need for any premature legislative intervention. i would also like to say that the 2005 commission recommendation on online licensing has already brought about significant progress in the marketplace. the recommendation has encouraged collecting societies in europe to set up eu-wide licensing platforms that make their repertoire available for online music shops across europe. i refer to the three examples i have just mentioned. the celas joint venture alone is in fact in a position to license approximately 25 % of all musical works to any european online music retailer, such as itunes, sony’s connect or emusic, in a single transaction. on the question of cultural diversity, let me state that our recommendation is not detrimental to cultural diversity. there are clear indications that the new platforms for anglo-american, french or spanish music are open platforms. these platforms can include other music publishers’ repertoires or the entire repertoire of existing societies. national collecting societies would not disappear; authors would still be members of local collecting societies and revenues would still be distributed through collecting societies affiliated to the new licensing platforms. regarding the issue of rights, i would like to underline that there is no reason to think that this multiterritorial licensing model is bad either for cultural diversity or for the rights of artists, while it is good for the rightholders, who get more money than under the old territorial model. cultural diversity and the rights of artists are also about giving authors more money so that they can continue to create. let me make one last point. the commission actively encourages the development of an own online licensing market for music. in this vein, the commission will closely monitor developments in this emerging market and, in doing so, the commission will carefully consider the issues raised in the lévai report of 5 march 2007. if, between now and 2010, we observe, for example, that monopolistic licensing structures are emerging on the internet, that the repertoire available on the internet does not adequately reflect europe’s cultural diversity and that the marketplace alone is not delivering eu licensing structures that are adapted to the internet era, then the commission will consider adequate alternative means for reaching those objectives.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 29 november in brussels. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the commission statement on 'towards an eu response to situations of fragility: intervention in difficult circumstances for sustainable development, stability and peace'.
thank you very much, mr deva. i am afraid you forget one factor in instability. when you arrive in those countries instability starts again.
i have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
the agenda includes the report by elizabeth lynne, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the inventory of the social reality (2007/2104 (ini)) (a6-0400/2007).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a lot of ideas here on social policy. thank you, mrs lynne. however, since social policy is not as important in the eu as economic policy, this report is not so much an inventory of the eu as the title suggests , but rather a list of demands for social policy measures in the member states. two points: the member states have the responsibility for social policy. we are only allowed to make recommendations at european level. europe is in a dilemma because the economy is harmonized but not the social concerns. since lisbon 2000, europe has not become more equitable on the contrary: poverty is increasing. to really fight poverty and enable all eu citizens to live in dignity and justice, we need more than just the economy, the market and competition; we need a social, equitable, ecological single market for all people. secondly, there is a lot of talk, not action. the problems are well known. we don't need studies and analyses so much. we must act now. it is not enough to declare 2010 the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. we need an effective anti-poverty agenda, we need data so that all people, including those without work, have enough basic income to live a life of dignity. it's about justice and human rights for all!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i not only congratulate mrs elizabeth lynne on her report, but i have also heard that in making this inventory of everything that is not working in social europe, she has found so many things that are not working that parliament's officials had to drag her away from her desk to be here this morning and she was not finished yet. because it's true that there's a lot of poverty in europe, but because i remembered coming in here and seeing my counterpart fernando fernández of what he said in puebla, mexico, a few years ago when i stood with him at a conference on poverty around the world, and he said, the biggest culprit of poverty is the culprit of bad government all over the world. so the number one culprit of poverty is governments, national governments, not us. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. and i also met my friend von wogau coming into the chamber, who asked me: but is it true that in italy, the pension for those who die, leave a widow or become totally incapacitated is 50 euros a month for life? yes, mr president, i had to tell him that unfortunately it is true! that is why, as the only representative of pensioners elected for this purpose in this european parliament, i say yes to the minimum wage for those fortunate enough to work, i say yes to a minimum pension in europe for all those who are elderly pensioners and i also say yes to the unemployed, without work, without pension, who also have the right to a minimum income.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that this statement by president daul speaks for itself, this parliament will be speaking with a majority and has every right to criticise or stigmatise the commissioners. it is the sovereign right of this house! if we have done what has been done, it is because commissioner frattini has made a wrong interpretation of community law and even if these wild shouts prevent me from speaking, i want to reiterate that we are acting here as meps towards a european commissioner and we will continue to do so! (applause from the left)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to rules 151 and 19 of the rules of procedure, i ask you to consider the admissibility of paragraph 13, which contains an unjustified and unfounded personal attack on the vice-president of the commission. this is a text which, if approved, after the statements of the spokesman for the president of the commission in defence of frattini, would provoke a disgraceful conflict between parliament and the commissions for reasons of internal policy. i therefore ask you to put the text of the resolution without paragraph 13 to the vote and at the same time i ask the authors to withdraw the text by means of an oral amendment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add the following oral amendment: the european parliament expresses its deep regret at the murder of mrs reggiani in rome on 31 october and conveys its deepest condolences to her family.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to add the following amendment: considers schooling and the fight against school dropout in roma communities as one of the key tools to combat social exclusion, exploitation and crime.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, considering the importance of the conditions laid down in articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 of directive 38 on the right of entry and residence,
the next item is the explanations of vote.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against this report because, as i have said many times before, and as i have said recently in my speeches in this house, i am firmly opposed to the schengen agreement. i am even more concerned when this agreement becomes the vehicle for the movement of illegal immigration and dangerous movements from one end of the union to the other. the borders of these countries, which are being considered for inclusion in the schengen acquis, are an easy vehicle for criminals. uncontrolled immigration from the galaxy of the former soviet communist republics and the middle east would benefit from an additional entry tool. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be hypocritical if the house, after voting by an overwhelming majority on the oral amendment by mr angelilli, who recalls and expresses the european parliament's condolences and solidarity to the family - i would say, to the memory - of such a victim, so unmotivated, so seriously affected by the phenomena of crime in our country, did not take a clear position to prevent these acts, this outright murder of honest people which is due to a lack of controls. no one wants to see xenophobic sentiments in our country, italy, especially towards people like the romanians, who, as an editorial in the newspaper l'avvenire reminded us, have given us men of culture like mircea eliade, like ionesco, like cioran. a great civilization that we feel is close and cousin to us. another issue is the invasion of criminals, and in particular the roma emergency, which requires action to prevent and control at the borders, by adopting photodetection, fingerprints to prevent and to know who enters our country with what intentions if possible and, above all, to establish a certain date. because if we do not want to make a big deal in europe, when we say that after three months we must carry out checks, we must know the exact date of entry and this, as minister amato admitted in the chamber of deputies, is not done today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the resolution on freedom of movement in the european union tabled by the centre-left groups - i will explain why right away - after having said that i am absolutely and totally in favour of mr mario mantovani's proposal to block the entry of non-community nationals, i repeat, non-community nationals, into the european union and thus into italy for three years, and as far as the community is concerned i am very much in favour of the right of free movement of workers, citizens and tourists, provided that it is not a licence to kill. it is not possible that, as has happened in recent days in italy, a 45-year-old woman died on her way home from work and a doctor who was just days away from retirement was killed in an attempted robbery at his home in milan. this is not free movement!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am firmly opposed to these motions for resolutions and i want to express my strongly opposed opinion. the whole thing was the result of a measure by the italian government, which was late and not very decisive, and which became aware of the emergency situation in italy, unfortunately only after terrible news events which they saw as the responsibility of citizens of the union. the provisions of directive 2004/38/ec are clear when they state that 'every citizen of the union has the right to reside ... in the territory of a member state provided that ... he has sufficient economic resources for himself and his family members not to become a burden on the social assistance system of the host member state'. i therefore regard these motions for resolutions as useless and as pretexts. the treaties require free movement of citizens within the eu and no one wants to discriminate on the basis of their country of origin. however, when union citizens commit extremely serious and heinous acts of violence in another state or cannot prove the reason for their stay, as the directive states, it is in the interest of the whole union that they be returned to their country of origin.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to say that i voted in favour of mrs elizabeth lynne's proposal to combat poverty in europe. i must, however, tell this very crowded chamber of the european parliament in strasbourg that in italy there is discrimination against elderly pensioners, who are forced to live in poverty if they become incapacitated after the age of 65 and who are granted a substantial financial allowance if they become incapacitated before the age of 65. and so, mr president, since the new form of the treaty providing for the legal form of the charter of fundamental rights will be signed in brussels on 12 december 2007, i ask that an infringement procedure be opened against italy on 12 december because it violates the right of the elderly to be considered as such and as all other citizens of an age other than the elderly.
author of the book. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, religious freedom is an objective factor in the recognition of respect for human rights. the violence suffered by christians in the world represents a contemporary wound and challenge to the dignity of the person. i was going to table this draft resolution at the october plenary, but the political groups asked me to postpone the resolution until the november plenary, so that we could have time to prepare a more detailed text with a wider consensus. the text we are voting on this afternoon, the result of a compromise with the socialists, the liberals, the union for a europe of nations and independence and democracy, retains the salient features of the original draft resolution. we have also been able to include concrete references to the violence and abuse perpetrated in the past year against christian communities not only in the middle east but also in other parts of the world. these are mainly events in iraq, egypt, pakistan, turkey, china and vietnam, and it is precisely the intensive coordination work carried out in recent days and the consequent recovery of numerous incidents outside the middle east that has led us to find a new, more appropriate title, which reads as follows: "serious incidents that compromise the existence of christian communities and other religious communities". the text certainly does not cover all the violence against christians, i am thinking for example of eritrea, i am thinking of north korea. but, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to appreciate the political message, which is also addressed to those countries and those incidents which have not been mentioned. it is precisely the work of coordination with the other groups that has enabled me to make it clear from the outset that the intention of this resolution is by no means to reignite the clash of civilizations. europe is always at the forefront of defending the rights of minorities and cannot continue to ignore the growing harm being done to so many christians. today, ladies and gentlemen, our parliament will be able to express its views on an urgent and important matter, in defence of the life and freedom of religion, not only of christians but of millions of people of all faiths. i ask you then... (the president cut the speaker off)
i believe that we are taking an important step today with this motion for a resolution, because this parliament must always condemn acts and incidents which endanger the lives of men and women because of their beliefs, political or religious opinions. religious freedom is a value and we must emphasize this, and if it is true that in some contexts christians risk persecution and criminalization, for that reason this parliament must protect and defend them, just as this parliament has always defended and protected muslim citizens who have been discriminated against in the west. we believe that all religions must play a positive role, a role of peace, in promoting respect for diversity, and for this reason we must strongly condemn any form of religious fundamentalism which often contributes to the clash of civilizations, and for this reason i believe that what this parliament does must always be in the direction of listening to and promoting interreligious dialogue. there are some important examples that show how it is possible to build an option where religions can listen to each other and build paths of sharing together. i am also concerned to recall the sacrifice of some catholics, of some christians, who fought for the freedom of the poor, of the peoples and for social redemption. that is why our group votes in favour of this resolution, also remembering priests like peppino diana or pino puglisi who died fighting organized crime and the mafia.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the report by ole christensen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the common principles of flexicurity (2007/2209 (ini)) (a6-/2007).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr christensen's report was essential to moving the original document forward. these rules can only be of great value if they simultaneously guarantee protection for the most vulnerable groups - immigrants, women, the elderly and the disabled - but also for adults with low levels of education who are more vulnerable and less protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the knowledge base of the workers must also be increased. it is also urgent to determine the economic funds to implement these rules and to identify real resources. finally, it seems to me that there have been many new imbalances in the capital-labour relationship in recent years, and in this context, rents and financial speculation weigh heavily and wages are getting lower. this must be one of the tasks we must take on together in the progress of these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, flexicurity is not a new concept, but an old danish model, dating back to the end of the nineteenth century, in which the state guarantees certainties that are not in the employment contracts, at great cost. the cause of this new europe is a dramatic precariousness which affects young people and employment, but which is harmful to society as a whole. to combat this precarious situation, we must change our approach to the liberal recipes and ideologies that have produced it. it is not true that precariousness creates jobs and economic growth. the opposite is true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that's why we fought for very concrete things: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. against unjustified dismissals which are discriminatory; against the repetition of atypical jobs, lifelong precariousness, which is a kind of modern slavery; the right to income for those who have no work and cannot live off the air; to bring together different forms of assistance; against discrimination against women in the workplace. the fact that there is no expenditure forecast to guarantee flexicurity - the 2% that has been removed - and that there can therefore be no investment that gives confidence, says a lot about the risk of an operation that can become demagogic. workers and young people are demanding concrete facts, not outdated ideologies. these are the points for which we have fought in this parliament and which we ask to be voted on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, flexicurity is neither a panacea nor a taboo. just agree on the rules of the game. it goes without saying that europe must rise to the challenges of globalisation and the - not always fair - competition imposed on us by the world economy. all this requires flexibility, but without sacrificing the european social model, its values, safety standards and, above all, solidarity. so flexibility provided there are certain rules, that there are guarantees and compensation mechanisms. above all, europe must be able to guide the member states through a strategy which brings together a number of key ingredients: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's social security system. support, moreover, must not necessarily be in the form of grants, but also as an offer of opportunities to become better qualified than the job offer. finally, systems of reconciliation between work and family life which allow, especially for women, genuine equal opportunities in the world of work. of course, these objectives require considerable resources, but only then can flexicurity be seen as an opportunity and not a shortcut to deregulation of the world of work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i too thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, and in so short a time. i think a word is a word, too. flexicurity is not a good or bad policy in itself. it is not even a single policy, but a set of combined and balanced actions. it depends on how they're designed and it depends on how they're applied. it is generally considered to be a strategy to make the labour market more flexible and to compensate for the transition from one job to another by providing financial and training support. a vision that is all about defensive, harm reduction, whereas what we need is revitalization, innovation and quality. if we can decline flexicurity to the female, we can find a correct entry key. we have the opportunity to note that women are the main recipients of the most precarious and unstable jobs. and then, at the same time, to discover all the positive potential of a strategy, if we understand flexibility not as precariousness, but as flexible organization of work and time to meet people's needs. and if we understand security not only as a training allowance, but also as an accompaniment to the different activities and choices in people's lives, then we enter into the propositive and innovative perspective, which is directed towards the future and not old recipes from the past.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the greens/efa group appreciated the strongly europeanist positions, the courage to organise a referendum on the constitutional treaty and the ability of your government to promote, in a calm manner and without religious warfare, legislation and practice on equality, individual rights and freedoms which are an example for many countries in europe, although today i do not see many women among your companions. we have also appreciated your words on immigration, though not always your actions, and we have appreciated the fact that you emphasized its positive aspects and not just the illegality, as perhaps your predecessor would have done. that is why i will tell you, mr president, that we have missed you in the last two years and in the last few months, in the institutional crisis we are experiencing, which was concluded, without much glory and without much passion, with the treaty of lisbon. the agenda of that intergovernmental conference was dictated by the enemies of the european constitution, while your friends, like yourself, were too discreet after that famous meeting of the 18. today, europe faces several approaches: sarkozy's directory of big or semi-big immigrants, gordon brown's atlanticist nationalism and romano prodi's somewhat formal but very sincere europeanism. and what is your vision? who are your allies? president, you spoke little about the issue of climate change, although it was only yesterday that we heard about the idea of a new contract between man - and i imagine also between man and woman - and the planet, and you also spoke a lot about gratitude for european aid. i have to tell you that we are seeing today, and we have been seeing for some time, that these european funds are also being used to make spain the country with the most kilometres of motorway per inhabitant and where concrete, also with european money, has facilitated serious episodes of speculation and corruption and has contributed to making spain, together with my country, italy and denmark - although you are a little worse off - very far from meeting the kyoto objectives. i understand that spain has not transposed the directive on the euro coin and is still pursuing a very heavy infrastructure policy. let us hope that with the electoral commitments - there is nothing wrong with doing a little electoral campaigning here too - that you have made on climate change spain will definitely change course, and let us also hope that your fantastic minister for the environment will have a lot more room for manoeuvre in her government than she has today. (applause) mr president, in conclusion, i would like to say that we here in the european parliament appreciate and appreciate your words, but we need allies in the governments of the member states. we cannot sleep, because we need people here who love europe and have a vision. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. mr president, i welcome this opportunity to explain where we are in the economic partnership agreement (epa) negotiations. i am glad to note that the strategy proposed by the commission in its communication of 23 october was endorsed by the council last week. as commissioner mandelson said to parliament’s committee on international trade last week, we have turned a corner in these negotiations. these negotiations are moving very quickly. let me give you a sense of where we stand at this moment. in east africa, a stepping-stone agreement has been initialled with the east african community: kenya, uganda, rwanda, burundi and tanzania. we are very close to an interim deal with the indian ocean countries in the context of the eastern and southern africa grouping. in the southern african development community, we have initialled a stepping-stone agreement with botswana, lesotho, swaziland and mozambique. angola will join as soon as it is able. south africa and namibia will decide on their participation in the next day. regarding the pacific region, we are working in parallel on an umbrella agreement for the region as a whole and specific agreements on market access to safeguard the immediate interests of those countries which account for the region’s trade with the european union. i expect agreement on those to be announced very shortly. in the remaining regions, the picture is less clear. for west africa and central africa, meetings are taking place with so-called ‘subgroups’. it is possible that we will be able to conclude interim agreements on goods with the countries most affected, which could then be enlarged to full epas with the whole region in 2008. that will, of course, depend on the wish of those concerned to take this route and to present wto-compatible market access agreements. in the caribbean region, we have an agreement on nearly everything but, crucially, not on trade in goods, where the region’s proposal falls well short of what can be defended in the wto. negotiations are continuing, but we now need a clear political decision from the region to unlock the negotiations by producing a wto-compatible market access schedule. in all regions, we are taking a pragmatic and flexible approach to achieving what remains our objective for these agreements: full epas with four regions. this will modernise our trade relationship and put it at the service of development, so full agreement with four regions is our objective. we have made significant progress in recent days, but we cannot today guarantee that there will be an agreement including new wto-compatible trade arrangements with all acp countries. wto compatibility is the essential component of all agreements, whether they are full epas, stepping-stone agreements, or even goods-only deals. without this, we can only offer the generalised system of preferences. next week, the general affairs and external relations council will decide on the ec regulation to implement the market access which has been offered to the acp. it is the best ever offer in a bilateral agreement: full duty/quota-free access, with transition periods for only two products – sugar and rice. we will continue to do everything possible to reach agreements. our offer is on the table and the moment any acp state provides a wto-compatible offer to complete a deal, we can move quickly to propose to the council that it should benefit from the epa market access regulation. we have indicated our willingness to work with subregions, if that is what the acp states wish. we have agreed to continue negotiating beyond 1 january 2008 on other issues, like services, investment and other trade-related areas, which are such an important part of the development component of these agreements. we have delivered on our commitment to provide trade arrangements equivalent to or better than cotonou to any country reaching an agreement with us. we have offered to open our markets fully and match the goods trade offer with generous services offers. what we cannot do is extend the cotonou trade regime while we continue negotiations. in the absence of an epa, we have made clear that we cannot and will not propose solutions which are illegal or insecure. our acp partners will need support to implement the agreements and make the necessary adjustments and reforms. this is why the commission is working to ensure that the european development fund will make ‘aid for trade’ in the context of epas a priority. it is why we are working closely with member states so that they bring additional money in the context of the newly-adopted eu aid-for-trade strategy. we know that concluding these negotiations means taking difficult political decisions, but we welcome the leadership shown by those acp regions and countries which have decided to join us in initialling epa agreements. we will continue to support them as they implement the commitments they have made and as we work together to ensure that this is a trade relationship that genuinely contributes to their development.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in the alde group have agreed with the socialist group's request for a postponement of the vote in order to try to reach a wider agreement on the text of the resolution. we also share the concerns and hopes that the kigali meeting summed up in the final document. the epas are an important instrument for development, regional integration and poverty reduction. these objectives must be the aim of the european union's action in the globalised world. free trade, the rules of the wto and the epas themselves are the means, not the end, to which world trade must tend. however, we must also stress that the legal vacuum created by the expiry of the cotonou agreements is a serious risk for the acp countries themselves, and this goes far beyond the legitimacy or otherwise of those agreements in relation to the rules and decisions of the wto itself. we too hope that the negotiations under way in all six regions will be concluded quickly, and that the resumption and successful conclusion of the most complex negotiations in doha on world trade reform will provide a definitive framework in which the reasons for the development of the poorest countries will also be more fully satisfied in relations between the eu and the acp. we know, however, that the acp negotiations are proceeding slowly and that the reform of world trade, which would also have the merit of reviving multilateralism in world trade, is lagging. it is therefore necessary to pursue practical solutions pragmatically. in this context, we believe that the strategy promoted by the commission of proceeding in two stages, first with interim agreements covering only trade in goods and then with a more general one, serves to avoid the interruption of the flow of goods at favourable tariffs, as envisaged in cotonou, with serious damage to the acp countries.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the first two railway packages in 2001 and 2004, before the adoption of the third railway package, the commission proposed on 13 december 2006 a new set of legislative measures on the cross-validation of rolling stock, in particular locomotives. these measures are intended to support the revitalisation of the railway sector by removing obstacles to train movement on the european rail network. the commission has launched this initiative for two main reasons: firstly, to facilitate the free movement of trains within the union by making the procedure for putting locomotives into service more transparent and efficient; secondly, to simplify the regulatory environment by consolidating and merging the three directives on railway interoperability into one. the package includes a communication, three legislative proposals and their impact assessment: a communication illustrating the current difficulties and proposing solutions to simplify the certification of railway vehicles, a proposal to revise the existing directives on railway interoperability, an amendment to the railway safety directive, a proposal to amend the regulation establishing a european railway agency and, finally, an impact assessment report. what was the common thread of this set of texts? a crucial aspect is to facilitate the free movement of trains and it concerns the approval procedure for locomotives. according to manufacturers and railway undertakings, this type approval procedure is very long and very costly; some requests from the competent authorities appear to be unjustified from a purely technical point of view. the commission shares this analysis and proposes to solve the problem by providing for a change in the legislative framework and by asking the competent authorities in the member states to change their behaviour now. this is why the communication accompanying the legislative proposals is important, as it proposes solutions that can be applied immediately, without waiting for the legislative framework to be changed. this communication did not remain without effect. we have already had a cooperation agreement signed in may for the rotterdam-genoa corridor. this agreement follows exactly the concepts proposed in our communication. the second is the proposal to revise the directives on interoperability and security. the commission had two objectives in presenting these two proposals. firstly, simplify the procedure for the approval of railway vehicles. we have introduced the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations for placing in service already issued by a member state. this principle means that rolling stock already authorised for placing in service in one member state should be subject to additional certification in another member state only in respect of additional national requirements arising, for example, from the characteristics of the local network. secondly, for the sake of clarity, we have brought together in one text the 1996 directive on the interoperability of the trans-european high-speed rail system and the 2001 directive on the interoperability of the conventional rail system. the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny was introduced for certain powers delegated to the commission by the council and the european parliament. the amendments to the interoperability and safety directives have given us the opportunity for two further operations. on the one hand, we have introduced a number of amendments on technical points in the new interoperability directive, in the light of the experience gained during the ten years of work carried out not only by the commission, but also by the member states in the framework of comitology, by industry and the sector and, since 2005, by the railway agency. on the other hand, we wanted to respond to some operators by clarifying the relationship between the railway undertaking and the entity in charge of maintenance in the safety directive. this provision was necessary to reflect the new regulatory framework resulting from the community directives on the opening of the market and the new wagon operating contract established at international level by the cotif convention. finally, i come to the proposal for amending the regulation establishing a european railway agency. this is an extension of the powers of the european railway agency, so that the agency can identify the various national procedures, the technical rules in force for the approval of locomotives and establish, by extending it subsequently, the list of requirements which must be verified only once, either because they are internationally recognized rules or because they can be considered equivalent between member states. this work will be carried out in cooperation with the network of national safety authorities, which the agency is responsible for leading. the agency will be responsible for producing technical opinions at the request of the national safety authorities or the commission. finally, in connection with this amendment, we have clarified certain other points of the regulation on the basis of experience gained, particularly in the context of the implementation of the ertms (european rail traffic management system) and of rolling stock registers. i would like to say, mr president, that while the first and second railway packages, and soon the third, establish the legal and economic framework for the proper functioning of rail services within the single market, the task had to be completed by ensuring the technical decoupling of national markets. this is the purpose of these proposals, which the railway sector has been waiting for for a long time. i am grateful to parliament for the rapid and quality work it has done on these texts.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president of the commission, although, as the vice-president of the commission said, we are forced to go through the technical debate in quotes, we are making a major political step forward today. since the establishment of the first treaty, at the end of the 1950s, there have been three main lines of european transport policy: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and to make it more accessible to the public. interoperability is not a technical fact, but it is the precondition for the construction of the european markets which are absolutely necessary and which are the aim of the treaty. great strides have been made in almost everything. we're a little behind in the railroad business. we are still facing the same objectives as in the 1960s. the reasons are different, this is not the time to do it, but this must be said to strengthen our conviction that we are taking a fundamental step and that it is crucial that we achieve these results. interoperability is therefore an essential condition for building, for being able to move on networks without technical barriers, which are raised to prevent the complete full circulation of engines and wagons, and so it is a fundamental step that had to be taken and that has to be done as quickly as possible. the commission has done well in no longer distinguishing between high-speed and traditional network interoperability and in pushing as far as possible in this direction. it was also a good thing that he also raised the issue of security, which is sometimes presented - and here we must be very careful in this statement - as a reason for conditional interoperability. how do you get the same driver across a border who may not understand the language of the country he is driving in? how do you get a locomotive across the border that might not be perfectly suited to the network on the other side? and so on and so forth. so you're right to put the two together. we must absolutely guarantee security but within a system which is interoperable, because if security is put forward as a condition to prevent interoperability, there is something wrong with this. the fact that it has been decided to have a european agency to deal with this and other matters, as we shall see, is certainly a sign that we are serious about this. what has parliament done? parliament approved the commission's proposals in substance, with some recommendations aimed at making the system more interoperable. in the report on interoperability you imagined that there are time limits within which authorizations are reached, of course for rolling stock already in operation, that the burden of proof that something is not interoperable also for safety reasons is shifted to the member states, that is to say it is assumed a priori that once certified everything can go anywhere, unless someone explains to me that there is some serious reason why this can be done, and you also imagined that state aid can be considered for retrofitting everything that exists in this way. that seems to me to be the contribution made in this situation. the same goes for security. here too, we have tried to say that by a certain date - for example, 2010 - we propose that there should be a mandatory certification. this makes it easier for everyone, without exception, to treat everyone the same, and not to continue to regard the monopolies which still operate rail services as being particularly capable of running them automatically and therefore exempt from this situation. the third point is to get the agency to act. i must say that this is the key question for me, which i put to everyone and to the commission in particular. we have rightly imagined that we would distinguish security from the rest by creating 25 european agencies. it was an important decision we made some time ago. i wonder, since they are not yet operational, whether it is not worth imagining having a single european agency working through 25 offices in different countries. this is the key issue which would allow the related problem of interoperability and security to be resolved in a positive way at european level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr vice-president, in order to achieve interoperable rail networks and to ensure a high level of sustainable mobility of citizens and interconnection between the regions of the union, the simplification of the current regulatory framework, as pursued in the costa and ortuondo larrea reports, is certainly to be welcomed. i would like to thank my colleagues for the excellent work they have done, especially in view of the strategic importance of the interoperability of the system, the imperative need for safety, and the establishment of the european railway agency with the extension of its powers. it is also desirable to improve the technical part of the regulatory framework and to promote the recognition of rolling stock for the above-mentioned purposes. the new procedure will therefore be based on the principle of mutual recognition of authorizations already issued by a member state, so that the necessary supplementary certification will be almost a pro forma. that is all very well, but it is essential that all rolling stock is in good condition, not only that which is moving from one country to another but also that which is circulating on local networks. in italy, railway users are clearly discriminated against because the most obsolete and often inadequate rolling stock, at least compared to the standard in many eu countries, is used on the local italian network. if the commission could go into the matter, it would note the enormous difference in the service offered. as i have already said on other occasions, the italian railways offer absolutely inadequate conditions, especially for local transport. i think that this is another reason why the responsibilities of railway undertakings and train keepers in the field of safety, as well as in respect of social standards and the service to be provided to users, should be defined more clearly.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr ortuondo larrea and mr costa, on the excellent work they have done in a short time on a very technical subject. as regards the proposal for a revision of the railway interoperability directives, i note that an agreement at first reading is now within our reach. this result was achieved after several working sessions and i would like to thank mr ortuondo larrea in particular for his personal commitment to bringing this matter to a successful conclusion. it was important to achieve a precise and detailed certification procedure for locomotives and other vehicles with regard to possible intervention by the national safety authorities, but at the same time to impose a limit on the maximum duration of the certification procedure, as was indicated by mr jarzembowski. the result of the negotiations, to which the commission has contributed technically, is an amendment which rearranges the entire text of the directive and which the commission fully supports. so, mr president, if this agreement is confirmed, we will be sending a strong political signal to industry and to national security authorities. it is now up to these national safety authorities to make the approval procedures for railway vehicles cheaper and faster. at the same time, we will have adopted this legislation in record time and shown that european legislation can also catch up with the speed of the tgv. president costa will allow me to respond to him on the national security authorities. they were created at the request of the railway safety directive adopted in 2004. for the majority of member states, it was a matter of creating a new authority from scratch, with all the budgetary and recruitment difficulties that this can entail. it seems difficult, mr president, to take away from these authorities a task which has just been assigned to them, thus calling into question the credibility of our railway policy. but i'm still coming with you. in the long run, we can expect that the system will one day be more european. i wanted to answer that. i now come to the subject of security, on which you were rapporteur. as you requested, some of these directives have been transferred to the new interoperability directive. apart from bringing the new comitology decision into line by introducing the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, the only important element in this proposal is the issue of maintenance of railway vehicles and the role of vehicle owners. more than half of the proposed amendments are acceptable to the commission as they stand in principle or in part. i would like to make a few comments on amendment no 21. on this very technical issue, the amendments envisaged must be in line with the legislation already in force, in particular the rest of the safety directive, but also with the technical specification for interoperability on wagons which entered into force on 31 january 2007 and the decision on the national vehicle register which entered into force on 9 november 2007. on the other hand, these changes must be adapted as far as possible to the various situations encountered in practice. these changes must be close to the practices in force in other modes of transport. these amendments should not be accompanied by a contractual business model which may evolve with the reform of the railway system. that is why the commission does not accept amendment no 21. the same applies, mr president, to amendments nos 3 to 7, 10, 14, 17 and 22, mainly for purely technical or legal reasons. i would like to conclude with the proposal to amend the regulation establishing the european railway agency. since the new tasks assigned to the agency depend essentially on the interoperability and safety directives and the directive on driver certification, this text should not present any particular difficulties. as regards amendment no 4, in which you ask the agency to take over the role of certifying the national authorities, i am glad that a reasonable compromise has been found in the context of mr ortuondo larrea's report. the agency may eventually be able to assume this responsibility, but today experts agree that such a reorganisation would be premature. the various possible models of cooperation between the european railway agency and the national safety authorities should be studied. the commission has committed itself to assessing the impact of all these options so that the best decision can be taken by 2015. the other amendments are acceptable as they are, in part or in principle, except for three. firstly, amendment no 5, which gives the agency a role of appeal in matters of safety certification, an amendment which we do not share for the reasons mentioned above. secondly, amendment no 6, for reasons of consistency with the corresponding article of the railway safety directive. finally, amendment no 8, because it would involve the agency as an adviser in commercial projects, which is outside the remit of a community body. i listened carefully to the various talks. i think that, on the whole, the european parliament appreciates the value of these provisions which will really make the railway more european. i don't answer all the questions. i simply want to confirm that with the transeuropean networks we have allocated 85% of the funds to rail projects. i can tell mr de grandes pascual that we are not forgetting the crossing of the massif and, in particular, the pyrenees. i would also like to say that, whatever approaches we may have to the railway system, we can still admit today that if we really want the railway to regain its full place in europe, we must really ensure that europeanization, which is made possible by technical interoperability and harmonized safety rules. the year 2007, mr president, will remain a key year for rail transport. since 1 january, national and international freight transport has been open to competition. we are seeing the process of revitalisation of this sector begin to bear fruit. the railway market share, after having declined since 1970 in most member states, has now stabilised and is even growing. the legislative proposals you are discussing today will enable railway undertakings to compete more effectively with road transport. i therefore welcome the agreement reached on the interoperability directive and the commission will do its utmost to promote the possibility of a rapid agreement on the other two parts of this package of measures. mr president, i should like to thank all the members who have been so kind as to pay such close attention to such a technical matter, which i believe has enabled us to make much faster progress, because if we had had to go to a second reading we would have lost a valuable year. i therefore believe that 2007 will continue to be a good year for rail transport and, consequently, for the fight against global warming, for which we know that the railway is particularly suitable.
the debate is closed. as trains cannot arrive at the station at the same time on the same track, we shall vote on the costa reports on thursday, 29 november, and on the ortuondo larrea report on tuesday, 11 december, in strasbourg. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes the recommendation for the second reading by the committee on culture and education on the coordination of certain provisions of the member states concerning television activities (10076/6/2007 c6-0352/2007 2005/0260(cod) (rapporteur: ruth hieronymi) (a6-0442/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i can only agree with what has just been said, because, thanks to the help of the institutions and the commitment of the rapporteur and her colleagues, we have a directive which will take our audiovisual industry into the future while respecting our values and our cultures. this is a great step forward for european audiovisual and i can only welcome it, as have all the speakers who have emphasized it. there was a question: what will happen between now and the implementation of the new directive? i can reassure the honourable member. we will continue to apply the rules of the television without frontiers directive. i have just launched infringement proceedings against spain for exceeding advertising hours. this will be the case for any member state that does not comply with the rules: the old rules remain in force until new rules are introduced.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda includes one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i also address the commissioner on the misuse of the structural funds, which is unfortunately a phenomenon that is multiplying in the european union. the situation in hungary with regard to the leader programme is a striking example. in fact, the leader action groups the lags which are to bring together local and municipal entities to use and develop the leader programme in hungary on the ground have been organised only with administrations belonging to a political party, i.e. the political part of the national government, excluding local administrations of non-governmental parties. this is a real scandal and i believe that the european commission should take action against the hungarian government, perhaps by opening an infringement procedure, because the structural funds are not being used properly and the local population is being harmed simply because there is an administration that is not in tune with the government.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kallenbach, and the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their willingness to ensure that they are always ready to discuss matters in order to reach an innovative but, i must say, balanced compromise. the proposed amendment to the directive is aimed at transposing the un protocol to combat organised crime concerning the purchase and lawful trade in arms intended for civilian use only. the directive deals with issues that affect everyone's sensibilities, such as the safety of citizens, but also sports traditions and the way of life of millions of european hunters. the council has also been in close contact with the commission, and the text has been drawn up in a way which strikes the right balance between the desire to have harmonized legislation and respect for the cultural specificities of each country, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. the first aspect i would like to stress is the marking system for weapons and their essential parts, also with a view to ensuring possible traceability, the obligation to keep data for at least 20 years, stricter supervision of online purchases and the risks we know they pose, the limitation of the use of weapons to minors and persons who may be considered dangerous to public security and the introduction of general principles for the neutralisation of weapons. the second aspect is that the current classification of up to four categories will be maintained, in compliance with the cultural and customary specificities mentioned above, and that a new assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of a possible reduction to only two categories will be carried out by 2012. the council's lack of availability has prevented us from having a passport as the only document necessary for the transport of weapons, and i think this is a missed opportunity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the basis for the amendment of this directive was the un protocols and the question of how to adapt effectively to the fight against terrorism. that was the commission's proposal. the rapporteur's proposal was then a revolutionary change to the existing directive. if you look at what we are discussing today and voting on tomorrow, it is a compromise which, as so often happens, does not satisfy all the parties. the compromise is that on the one hand we try to fight against everything that is illegal - and we are never consistent enough here - and on the other hand we try not to complicate the handling of legal weapons too much. there are certainly areas, such as categories or registration, where a somewhat stronger regulation incorporating subsidiarity would have been appropriate, but this has not been fully achieved. but the approaches are there and we shall see how the study turns out or how the member states will approach this matter. i believe that this compromise is viable and that all those involved have certainly tried to achieve exactly that. i would like to thank you for that. we should take this opportunity to remind ourselves again and again of the difference between legal and illegal weapons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the report i am presenting, which i have had the pleasure of drawing up with the collaboration of many colleagues, is the operational continuation of a report which this parliament has already approved - the report by mr queiró - which sought to make a contribution by parliament to european tourism policy. the criterion which informs this report is to define a different, and i hope more operational, policy approach to the european union's tourism interest, which is currently limited by the treaty provision. the member states have not given the european institutions great powers in the field of tourism under the existing treaty, and i have to say that the treaty we are going to approve, and which i hope the union will approve next month in lisbon, will not greatly extend the formal powers of the union in the field of tourism. but at the same time, the existing treaties allow the union to exercise a large number of policies which have a major effect on tourism and its ability to grow or maintain its competitiveness as a world leader as europe is. so, the idea of this report is to point out some possibilities. the list which we have drawn up, and which parliament has drawn up with the help of all, is only an indicative list, and i hope that it can be enriched further. it is a list of possibilities for using the full powers of the european union that exist today for tourism purposes. two examples for everyone: the tourist is a traveller and therefore, by definition, many transport policies can be viewed in terms of and in favour of tourism or be reviewed in terms of and in favour of tourism. the tourist is a consumer, so many of the european union's consumer protection activities can be traced back to the needs of the tourist. but if we want other policies, the tourist, especially the non-european tourist who comes to europe, is a gentleman who crosses borders just as others cross borders for different reasons. a visa policy, an immigration policy of the european union needs to be carefully reviewed, so as to take account of the opportunity to invite as many tourists as possible. many of the contracts that tourists sign today directly, using information technology through the internet, are not fully protected and therefore the european union, by protecting these types of contracts or introducing types of contracts that protect them, can do a lot for tourists, and so on in detail. in short, i think we can say that, while we all recognise that tourism is one of the industries with the greatest prospects for europe, that it is useful above all for the cohesion objectives it is able to maintain, for the enhancement of resources such as cultural resources and environmental resources it can pursue, this great objective of the growth of the tourist economy can be pursued not only with the formal competences that the union has, but also through all of them. the idea, the meaning of this report, is to invite the commission and the council to imagine a set of initiatives which formally fall within other areas of competence - consumer protection, transport safety, guarantees on certain tourism contracts, immigration policies, coordinated promotion policies outside europe, and so on - to put together a set of initiatives, a package of tourism initiatives, which i believe can be the real contribution of the european institutions - i insist - to the maintenance and growth of a sector which we know to count for a lot and which will count more and more for the future of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank mr paolo costa and welcome the points in this report which emphasize social and environmental sustainability. a well-kept natural and cultural landscape is the best magnet for a tourist attractive country. the acceptance of tourism by the citizens of the host country, i.e. the tourists, is an important prerequisite for tourists to feel welcome as genuine guests. the qualification and satisfaction of the tourism industry also guarantee satisfied guests. mobility is a prerequisite for tourism, soft forms by public transport, by bicycle or on foot promote growth without destroying the foundations of a healthy and sustainable tourism economy. this comprehensive report contains a number of impulses which are intended to be more than wishful thinking. i hope that the agenda 21 for european tourism will include these ecosocial principles.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, there are all interesting points to be made in mr paolo costa's excellent report. i would just like to make a few quick remarks, starting with the profound changes in demand, due in large part to globalisation, the increasingly massive presence of non-european tourists in our territories and the increase in life expectancy, which implies the need to think about a tourism policy in the european union that is appropriate to the times we are living in and that must also be strategically reviewed. mr queiró has stressed the need for the standardization of hotel classification systems, which i fully agree with, and i would also add the need to identify european standards of quality and safety of tourist products. it is also necessary to respond to the new needs of citizens as users and consumers of tourist services. in this respect, just two of the many examples of innovation in the costa report are: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states. here is a final note on training: the commission has also proposed that the european union should set up a special programme to promote tourism for the elderly and for the disabled.
in writing. the deadlock in the constitutional treaty also affects the tourism sector, which, in the present context, should become a community matter. in recent years, individual member states have pursued strategies linked to tourism which have generally allowed the sector to be strengthened overall in the context of the individual socioeconomic realities of the 27 member states. the number of tourists has increased, investment has been implemented, the need for staff has increased, with obvious positive implications in terms of employment. what is missing, so far, is a clear and comprehensive plan by the community institutions: the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. in this context, europe must rise to the occasion and therefore accept and overcome the challenging challenges that lie ahead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by acknowledging the extremely positive and valuable work done by the court of auditors and to emphasize in particular the data we have received on the 2006 annual report. we are seeing an improvement in the use of community funds. this year the court has given a positive assessment of how 40% of the funds have been spent, compared with 30% last year. so we are confident that, far from the funds being fully used, the positive fact is that every year we see progress. in fact, years ago the court of justice gave a discharge of only 6% of total expenditure. it is therefore interesting to note that most of the difficulties encountered are essentially irregularities rather than fraud. the most common types of errors are missing documents, non-compliance with eligibility criteria, inaccurate declarations and non-compliance with procedures. the problem is clearly the difficulty of meeting bureaucratic obligations. the new financial regulation is a step forward in simplifying and making governance more transparent. of particular importance is the mandatory publication for funds administered directly by national and regional authorities, which constitute about 80% of the community budget. much remains to be done to reduce red tape, to reduce the complexity of the rules for the disbursement of funds. this would greatly reduce irregularities, especially on the part of small beneficiaries, who very often lack the facilities to carry out the necessary formalities. finally, the issue of recoveries remains a crucial point in the european financial control system. more detailed information and data should be made available to the court of auditors, parliament and the commission to facilitate recovery, and more binding legislative instruments, such as guarantee and surety schemes, should also be introduced. in conclusion, i believe that, although the results of the court of auditors' annual report show some improvement, there are still major challenges in terms of simplifying procedures and enhancing cooperation between the member states in the control phase.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, seven hours spent in the cellar of the belgian courthouse, thanks to the mayor of brussels and the silence of the competent authorities, have given me much to think about fundamental rights. i point to the fact that the northern league delegation voted against the bill of rights because of the lack of attention paid to the dangers of article 10. no question of freedom of religion, but freedom of rites, without limits? the limits that the constitution of my country in italy has are: the limits of public decency, public safety and public order. does the european union know that there are incidents of anthropophagy? do you know what voodoo is? i think that the flemish colleagues were right to point out in clear terms the ambiguity of these texts which the european union issues, for example, against islamophobia. but they never talk about christianophobia, anti-white racism. these are real phenomena and therefore the european union should also take account of these risks and dangers and protect the indigenous citizens, their culture and traditions, the identity of the european peoples, if we want a europe of the peoples, and not a europe that becomes a melting pot, in which fundamental rights are not really protected. we are witnesses to this, we who have been thrown into prison in the silence of europe for defending our ideas and the rights of european citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too voted against the report on the charter of fundamental rights, not because i am against these rights, but to highlight an ambiguity, a danger inherent in the very formulation of these rights, in particular - as my colleague mr borghezio has already mentioned - article 10, where freedom of religious worship, religious practices and rites is unlimited. so it could very well be that satanic practices, voodoo rituals, rituals contrary to public order, contrary to good manners, contrary to other rights, which, however, find no limit here, are authorized, practiced. a possible appeal to the luxembourg court of justice, according to the letter of the text, could only justify those who practised these rites, which are contrary to certain traditions but also to common sense.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no discounting the safety of toys, and the massive withdrawal of toys from china has brought consumer safety back into the debate, especially the safety of the smallest consumers, who often have no voice and no strength to defend themselves. there is a very lucrative market for products which are dangerous to health, a market which is making dizzying profits every year, which is finding endless ways and means of legalizing what is actually illegal and harmful. we therefore welcome the commission's proposals to strengthen the application of checks on the safety of products, especially toys. in particular, we consider it of paramount importance to cooperate with china and the united states to stop the flow of dangerous products to the european market. the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the safety of the products concerned, which will be presented to the council in the near future. as far as the member states are concerned, it is of paramount importance to improve cooperation between customs and market surveillance authorities. however, the toy directive must be revised to provide for certain rules for planning appropriate controls at the production and customs levels. i would like to conclude, however, by saying that china must absolutely do its part and the commission must insist on it. china must give guarantees, it must engage in a tough and uncompromising fight against illegality, otherwise the european union will have to take serious measures and close the doors to counterfeiting and unfair and illegal competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his comprehensive and exhaustive speech, which really demonstrates what has already happened in this area. however, this is a matter which i think we need to work on and work on further but the commissioner has already said this and i take note of it because the figures are appalling. we've heard about numbers before in terms of hotel security, or other security -- for the love of god, every human life is very important -- but they were very small numbers, i would say. we are talking about very different realities here. 10,000 to 20,000 people a year involved. there are probably more than half a million disabled people in third countries, so this is a very important subject and it is no coincidence that ten years after the ottawa convention this subject is being discussed, but in this house it is being discussed again only two years later. we addressed this with a resolution in 2005 and we are addressing it now. and we're going to talk about it now because we're in danger of stopping the conversation. the commissioner - i repeat, thank you for what you said - has highlighted some of the funding channels through which the fight against landmines can be continued, and i want to make it clear: i'm not going to tell you. however, i believe that the commitment must be much wider. there are too many countries on the planet earth that have not yet joined the ottawa convention, too many countries that still have arsenals of this war material, too many countries and territories that still have a concrete presence, and so we must proceed very seriously with mine clearance. i should like to remind you, in addition to what the commissioner has said, that 34% - that is the figure, and then we have to see whether the statistics are realistic or not - in any case, in principle, 34% of all the victims of landmines left behind in the territories which have been the scene of war are children, and this phenomenon is therefore even more serious. so i think that not only must the programme continue, commissioner, but the programme must be further and heavily funded. the commission has already done a great deal, the european union has already done a great deal: 335 million in these ten years, 33 million in 2007 alone; but i think that the council, the commission and the member states should convene a meeting to review the ottawa convention and make even greater efforts to ensure that all the states of the world take action on this matter and that the demining and total abolition of anti-personnel mines is really an immediate future, as immediate as possible.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to make a few comments about the reform of our wine sector. i would like to offer my particular thanks to the rapporteur, mr castiglione, for his remarkable hard work in bringing this draft together. parliament has made a valuable contribution to a debate which, i must say, has at certain times been very emotionally charged. i am ready to follow your suggestions in a number of areas, at least to some extent. for example, with regard to the grubbing-up scheme, i see some advantages in reducing the five years to three years as suggested in the report. i have also listened to your concerns about channelling some spending on wine through the rural development budget. but let me remind you that all the money from the wine budget will be allocated specifically for the wine regions. nevertheless, i will be willing to propose a lower transfer of spending into the rural development budget. there are three big issues where the commission, the presidency and most member states still have to find a consensus in the final sprint to get reform finalised this month. the first issue is the national envelopes. there was always going to be a debate about exactly what measures should be allowed in this envelope, that is to say, which menu we should put into the envelope. i am prepared to be a bit flexible here. for example, i am open to putting into the envelope certain ideas concerning innovation and the restructuring of wine sellers, but i think we still need to keep a clear demarcation line between what is possible within the national envelopes and what is possible within rural development policy, to avoid a situation where you can actually finance an investment from both sides, what is called the ‘double guichet’. on the other hand, the national envelopes are no place for permanent crisis distillation measures. support for crisis distillation holds back competitiveness and we must abolish it completely and not try to reintroduce it through the back door. also there is no possibility of reopening a general discussion on how large the envelopes of the different member states should be. if we reopen this debate – a pandora’s box – i can guarantee that there would be no agreement at the end of this year. i can foresee a very long and very difficult discussion if this is going to take place. the second big issue is capitalisation. there has been a huge row about this and i have not simply blocked my ears to this discussion. nevertheless, the status quo does hold a genuine problem to be solved. aid for enrichment with must cannot continue at the same level in this manner. it is an old-fashioned, inefficient, ineffective, costly and trade-distorting support and, this being said, i clearly understand the importance of keeping the balance between enrichment with sugar and must in order to arrive at a compromise supported by the wine producers in both the southern and northern parts of europe. we will find a way through this. i have listened to the broad call for continuing to allow enrichment with sugar, but – let us be clear – i am not inclined to accept the status quo, so any compromise would imply new conditions. the third big issue is the discussion on the end of the planting rights system. i am listening to arguments about when the system could come to an end, but we cannot afford to kick the whole idea into the long grass. the wine sector clearly needs more freedom to respond to demand as soon as possible, so my suggestion of prolonging the system of planting rights until the end of 2013 was based on the clear idea of a two-stage approach to balancing the sector – first grubbing-up to bring down the production, and then liberalisation to give the successful producers the freedom to expand. i have listened to the comments from the sector but one thing is clear – the final date for the planting rights system is indispensable. what that exact date will be, will be part of the final compromise. so overall, i have been listening to arguments from all the different sides, including all the arguments from the european parliament, but one iron fact has not changed: our wine sector still needs reform if we want to keep it at the front of the pack. we have to seize the chance now and agree on a real reform. carrying out reform will mean that we have to invest effort, but i am quite sure that we will get a good return. the cost of inaction is too high for us to accept, and i hope that we can agree on this point.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner for her cooperation with parliament in this long process. i also thank you for the appreciation of the work of the european parliament, important work, interesting work, a considerable contribution by the committee on agriculture, but by the whole of the european parliament and by all the members. so thank you, commissioner, for proposing a very ambitious reform, a reform whose objectives we cannot but share. there is a fall in consumption, there is an increase in imports and so all this requires radical reform, a reform i would say absolutely necessary. our wine-growing industry needs new impetus, new life, new energy, new proposals, and he is right when he says that if we want to remain competitive, if we want to remain the world leaders in the sector, we must invest in the wine sector and we cannot fail to look at the market, we cannot fail to produce for the market, we cannot fail to penetrate the market with excellent products. that is why, commissioner, together with my colleagues from the committee on agriculture and the european parliament for the own-initiative report, to which i would like to thank you further, i have tried to imagine in the report a comprehensive, coherent reform system, a clear system, above all. a system that is able to meet the needs of our producers, to provide all the tools necessary to be able to compete and to be able to win. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as a prerequisite, only one consideration: a radical change in mentality, in production strategy is needed. we must abandon the logic of quantity in favour of quality and excellent production, capable of enhancing the national, regional and local characteristics of european viticulture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. an example for all of us: crisis distillation, which has become a structural and routine measure, no longer a response to economic emergencies: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. hence the support for a more efficient use of economic resources, for national development programmes and for the implementation of those measures which best meet the specific needs of each producing state. that is why we have considered in the report, commissioner, to extend the list of measures that can be implemented, to include the restructuring of the supply chain, research, innovation and quality improvement. all actions that will foster that entrepreneurial creativity that our wines need. for the same reason, it is essential to promote not only in international markets but also in domestic markets. we have all said and felt this in the analyses which have been given to us in the committee on agriculture. it is absurd to think that we can be competitive across borders if we cannot be first in our own country, if we cannot communicate to our fellow citizens the quality of our wine production. the report therefore calls for a harmonised system for the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications, clear labelling, transparent labelling and clearly identified oenological practices. only then will the consumer, whom we put at the centre, be able to have confidence in what he is buying. it is therefore essential, commissioner, that the designations of origin and geographical indications which represent the quality of european wine production be strongly protected. protection which means the obligation to make wine within the demarcated area, but which also means limiting the mention of the vintage on the label to wines with designation of origin and geographical indication only. they are the only ones that are subject to continuous checks and therefore the only ones for which it is possible to ensure the veracity of the information provided, otherwise we are harming the very producers of quality and deceiving the consumers. the report also supports the proposal for a voluntary withdrawal programme with a premium, to enable those who wish to do so to leave the market with dignity. i cannot help but be pleased that the commissioner has already accepted my idea of reducing the period from five to three years, and it seems that the number of hectares to be planted has actually fallen from 200 000 to 175 000. unlike our original proposal, the report also seeks to meet the need for certainty in the future that our wine producers need. so, for the same reason of certainty, we cannot decide to liberalize planting rights right away, before we see whether the new system works and, above all, how it works. the report therefore provides for the rights to be maintained until at least 2013 and calls on the commission to prepare an impact assessment from the first stage of the reform so that we can make informed choices, bearing in mind that in geographical indication areas decisions need to be taken in compliance with and under the control of those who have invested capital and labour in those projects. if it is true that such a system holds back the development of those who are competitive, then we can facilitate community movement and ensure the effective use of reserves where they exist. the commissioner has made a final point. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. coming from a country like italy where the use of sucrose is banned and even more so from sicily, where must is produced, no one can understand the commissioner's disappointment on this subject better than i can. however, we are talking about the need to give european wines a new impetus and competitiveness, to enable them to compete on the markets. that is our aim, and to achieve this aim we have worked by trying to look beyond national differences. i thank you, commissioner, for your work and especially for the contribution you have made to the appreciation of the work of the european parliament. we put in this reform. the president will withdraw the floor.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the text we are about to vote on is a good compromise and a considerable improvement on the commission's original proposal. our aim remains to launch a reform aimed at boosting the development of the sector both on the domestic and international markets: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the wine sector, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them into account in its future work. the reduction in european wine production proposed by the commission should also be limited by increasing the autonomy of the member states in regulating the grubbing-up scheme. we must avoid abolishing vineyards which, although not particularly strong in the market, are quality regional products with deep-rooted historical traditions, which still form the social fabric of entire regional areas. this reform, while creating conditions for greater competitiveness, must be consistent with the past and promote the permanence of viticulture at the expense of the territory and the environment. we are therefore in favour of the resources being allocated over three years instead of five and of the allocation being mainly based on the historical criterion, following in general the same criterion as for all the other reforms adopted so far. we are opposed, madam commissioner, to the liberalization of new oenological practices and the use of imported must to enrich our wines or to combine them with wines from third countries, because we believe that this can damage the image of wine and undermine the relationship of trust between consumer and product, with very serious consequences for consumption. on the other hand, we believe it is essential to provide for aid for concentrated must and rectified concentrated must used for enrichment in order to protect a common oenological practice in many regions of the community. we believe that it is necessary to take account of the investments of producers and to avoid the possible interruption of trade flows which would lead to a greater supply of products. this reform should promote the protection of geographical indications and controlled origin as a means of ensuring and protecting european products better in the context of multilateral negotiations and bilateral trade agreements. finally, madam commissioner, we are against the total liberalisation of planting rights for wines with designations of origin and geographical indications from 2014 and we support the rapporteur's proposal that the new reform should enter into force on 1 august 2009.
i believe that the minister's view, as mr castiglione has also said, is that this proposal, which has been sent to parliament and has been referred to the committee, is worse than the commissioner's proposal. i think we are talking about millions of people who are dedicated to this product, which has made europe great on issues of quality, connection to the territory. and i'd like to start with a first consideration: the extirpation. they say it's going to be 175,000 to 200,000 acres. question number one: we are asking ourselves who will be uprooting and who will occupy the space of these uprooted lands and why in the proposal that we could have advanced using and not increasing the cost, perhaps even reducing it, give the possibility of restructuring these vineyards to make better quality? i ask the house: why do we have to expel tens and hundreds of workers and entrepreneurs to make way for the big multinationals, dear castiglione, as is happening in sicily? so here's the thing. why use the european funds for uprooting and not use the european funds for improving quality and for restructuring? we have done so much in this european parliament and in the community policies that have developed over the years! second point: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the free movement of goods. why must there be a free market for the whole of europe? what is the point of buying a hectare of vineyard in sicily, campania or greece, or somewhere else and bringing it to another reality? that hectare of vineyard is linked to a quality, a production, a typical product, an eco-type that has been consolidated in those areas! why this kind of proposal? we are not going to allow the commission to do this. so here's the bottom line. the commission's proposal is a better proposal than the one that parliament is proposing, if we want to make a reform that will help quality and keep the entrepreneurs and workers in these areas in the territory. that is why we will vote against this kind of reform.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the commissioner, but i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr castiglione, for his excellent, intensive and fruitful work. the need to meet the challenges of international competition, with programmes for qualitative conversion and protection of typical characteristics, are fundamental objectives which must be safeguarded by the reform of the european wine regime. however, it is important to ensure that the aid for concentrated grape must and rectified concentrated grape must produced by the european community is maintained, as this is a common oenological practice in many regions of the community. as regards sugaring, in order to increase transparency and to inform the consumer, provision should be made for the possible use of sucrose for enrichment to be indicated on the label. national aid programmes must be used to promote measures within the european union, crisis prevention, research and development and, above all, the improvement of wine quality. as regards the liberalisation of establishments, the extension until 2013 could be accepted for wines protected by designations of origin and geographical indications; in order to bring about a balanced situation for other wines, the liberalisation of installations should only be possible following the commission's impact assessment programme, to be carried out by the end of 2012.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this reform is certainly reshaping the basic aspects of the wine sector to make it competitive on world markets, and with the castiglione report we have emphasized the concept that the competitive strength of european wine, the one that allows it to win the competition of the new world, is quality. it is in the name of quality that we have improved the commission's proposal on certain points, such as the eradication of the period and ecological constraints, and the liberalization of planting rights with the precautions which were also mentioned in the debate. we have argued that the approval of oenological practices should not be made too easy for closer control and that community co-financing for promotion measures should be increased. our quality promotion, however, is not compatible with the practice of sugaring. we understand, ladies and gentlemen, that in some countries this practice is favoured for economic reasons, but we are calling for the same standard, the same system as the previous legislation for the aid to must, and above all we believe it is essential that, in the name of the principle of transparent and correct information to consumers, the indication on the label of the use of sucrose should be made compulsory. it is a question of respecting, ladies and gentlemen, and i am speaking in particular to you, the principles of traceability for which we have fought in this parliament as a mission of our own to the consumers.
quality and health, sugar is bad for me, so let's remember that in the binomial as well.
i'm afraid wine should be made with grapes!
member of the commission. madam president, i can hear that you, as well as the rest of the members of the european parliament, take a huge interest in the future of the european wine sector. i do not have enough time at this stage to go into details, and we have already had in-depth discussions in the committee on agriculture and rural development, so i am just going to leave you with quite a simple message with regard to the future of our wine reform. it is time to do a deal. i am quite sure that a reform will make a huge difference for our wine sector and it is time to do a deal because, as rightly mentioned here today, we see an increase in imports, we see an increase in production, but we see a reduction in domestic consumption. it is time to do a deal because we can spend the budget of the wine sector in a much more intelligent way or in a better way than we do today, in ways which will strengthen the sector and also make much more sense to the public and to the taxpayers. i think that a deal is within our grasp but, of course, i say as well that it must be the right deal. we live in the real world, and i have shown considerable flexibility over many of my original proposals, but i will not allow the proposal to be watered down so far that the end product loses all its taste and all its value. the compromise that we find must give us a reform worthy of the name and it must give us a real chance of achieving the goals that we have set for ourselves. we can strengthen the competitiveness of our wine sector, we can achieve a better balance between supply and demand and we can make a big improvement in the rules on labelling and many other issues. we can do all this in such a way that wine production remains a jewel in the crown of european agriculture, as very rightly said by ms herranz garcía today. it is not the time to make excuses for inaction and watch emerging opportunities just slip through our fingers. now is the time to set our wine sector firmly on the road towards new successes. i know that i can rely on decision-makers who have the sector’s best interests at heart to do the right thing, and i know that i can count on the cooperation of the european parliament. i would like to thank you and, again, mr castiglione for this very difficult task of bringing together all the different opinions within the european parliament.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the opportunity to make a statement. he caught me when i was a little girl, i was about to die from the exhaled grapes i was trampling in a vat, so there's a deep connection between life and death. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 11 a.m. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. italy, and the italian members of this institution, have always defended the european project, in the interests of social rights, consumer protection, the quality of life of our citizens. the european agricultural policy is designed to support our farmers and to promote the quality of european products, to strengthen the eu's position on the global market. but today, with the vote on the reform of the wine market, steps have been taken backwards on many of the issues affecting the sector, particularly in the mediterranean countries and regions, to which europe owes the fame and success that european wines have so hard earned at world level. supporting enrichment by sucrose without even requiring that it be indicated on labels to inform consumers, preferring the removal of land to the redevelopment of land, allowing the circulation of planting rights throughout the eu, are all practices which we as europeans and especially as italians cannot accept, as they damage the quality and image of one of the products that best represents the quality of european agriculture in the world. i hope that my colleagues in the council will be better able to defend the future of our wine and of all our wine growers.
the agenda includes the report by jan mulder, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers and regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) (com2007) 484 final - c6-0283/2007 - 2007/0177 (cns)) (a6-0470/2007).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regard mr mulder's report as a very good effort to improve agricultural policy in europe. the subject of agriculture is of growing interest in europe. given that half the surface of the european union is used for agriculture, i believe that conditionality is one of the most important political signals in terms of the explicit will to confirm support for the agricultural sector, making such support conditional on respect for environmental issues. i would like to emphasize the communication aspect of this measure to the consumer public, considering it a very important way of raising awareness of a topical issue such as environmental protection. i share the rapporteur's efforts to simplify cross compliance, because i think it is unproductive to burden farmers with excessive efforts to comply with the legislation. by introducing new topics such as climate change, bioenergy, water resources and risk management, the commission has shown that it wants to take some steps forward, although the way conditionality is dealt with still remains somewhat ambiguous, if it merely indicates a generic need for simplification without clarifying objectives and modalities of application. elements such as simplification, deregulation and - i might add - transparency must always be at the heart of any initiative from the european union. i will stop here, commissioner, but i know that you were in brescia ten days ago, i believe in my province, and although this is a bit out of place, you were able to taste the wines and typical products of brescia. i believe that not adding sugar to wine also means giving quality a fair balance, a fair reward to the producers.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the union. finally, africa, although diverse, as we are, is united and able to overcome the paternalistic relationship between donor and recipient countries. it is part of our strategy to build political, economic and social partnership; we are therefore glad that what we have been saying in our documents since the treaty of rome in 1957 is now becoming a reality. konaré said that africa wants to make its own agenda, and that's extraordinary, and i hope that it's really a sense of responsibility to fight together poverty, desertification, disease. the criticism of the iepo that has been made and that has been expressed, this parliament has been doing it for a long time, i think we have to take into account that today not only social movements but also african governments do it and therefore look for alternatives. the pan-african parliament and the european parliament have really come into play with great clarity and great strength, with a balance of power, and that is extraordinary. but it will also be a challenge, along with the civil society movements, also for the policies that we can conduct together.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to start with the small, apparently small, victory achieved by french president sarkozy in removing the word 'accession' from the negotiations with turkey. of course, nothing changes, the negotiations are continuing, but then sarkozy, who is certainly the strongest and most political person in this parliament today, in his speech here, the european heads of state, comes to us to talk about the borders of europe and the mediterranean union and is answered with a certain irony: "ah, you don't know what you want, you don't understand, what is this mediterranean union, you don't know where you want to go". i think it is very clear where he wants to go and it concerns the borders of europe: the mediterranean union is the strategy of a europe of nations. and indeed, if the logic were only that of the relationship between nations, a mediterranean union might make sense to regulate the problems of the economy, of trade, of the environment. it is not the case, or it is necessary to build an alternative if we want something else, if we want a europe of law, of individual rights first, a europe of citizens before a europe of states. this is the alternative that the heads of state, the commission and the european union have to put to sarkozy's french strategy of a europe of nations. we must know whether we want this charter of fundamental rights to become, in the future, also a charter of the rights of turkish citizens, a charter of the rights of moroccan citizens, a charter of the rights of israeli and palestinian citizens. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. and finally, here are the people wearing the "referendum on europe" t-shirt: the european referendum is a good thing, but national referendums are not, because these are the referendums that unite the populisms, the extremisms, the nationalisms and the communisms of our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there are still patriots in europe and we will of course call for a national referendum. we keep asking for them because we believe in a europe of the people, not in a europe of high finance which supports and finances, in fact, all that technocratic policy, all that way of managing the ambulances of the european institutions. the face that emerges from the redesign of your treaty is precisely that, the confirmation of an institution dominated by a techno-bureaucracy that answers only to itself, that feeds only itself. what about this new version, for example, of the strong demand for the defence of the european social model, which came from the popular referendums, what response have you given? the commission has not yet responded to the request for an early vote on the report. we are not building a building like europe, which has its historical roots in the public law of the holy roman empire, with the evaluation of the euro against the dollar as its spiritual horizon. the others are the reference points and for us above all the christian roots. you do not solve europe's fundamental problems by your legal tricks or by letting yourselves be guided by the judgments of the european court of justice. this is not the way to govern states, this is not the way to govern the future, this is not the way to govern the history of europe. long live the europe of the peoples, the europe of christian roots!
vice-president of the commission. madam president, the commission makes the following declaration. the commission, sharing the views expressed by parliament, acknowledges the urgent need to have a scientific evaluation of children’s health claims already on the market. therefore, it will give priority to the necessary procedure to allow for a rapid decision on claims referring to children’s development and health and will also ask the european food safety authority to give priority to processing the evaluation of such claims. furthermore, the commission confirms that, pending the establishment of nutrient profiles, the process of evaluating such claims can start without delay.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the oral amendment proposed by our group is to replace the words 'all forms of glorifying' with 'apology'. we believe that the word apology is more appropriate to indicate the behaviour to be repressed. if mr díaz de mera accepts, our group will vote in favour of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, under rule 151 (3) you can assess the admissibility of rule 6 which we are about to vote on. this recital says that terrorism cannot be eliminated. is it possible for this parliament to make it official that terrorism cannot be eliminated? i believe that this is either a translation error in some texts or a very serious political error, and i ask the president to assess the admissibility of this paragraph.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask the rapporteur to agree to the removal of the two sets of words i have just read: "in some rare instances" and "which may not be lawful". if we remove these two parts from the amendment, we are prepared to support it.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say that i voted for the castiglione report and i think it is a very balanced report, especially when you consider the starting position we had: 800 amendments in the committee on agriculture. the efforts of the rapporteur and many colleagues have undoubtedly borne fruit in a sector which is in great difficulty and in which it is essential that we give the people who work in this sector a future perspective. i believe that the foundations have been laid here and i hope that the european commission will take account of the decisions of the european parliament in the appropriate form, as far as possible - that is to say, 100% if possible - in the spirit of the new treaties.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the vote on the common organization of the market in wine, i would like to make it clear that i voted in favour of amendment no 294 tabled by mr lavarra of the pse, which i co-sign, because i believe that it is the consumer's right to know whether the wine he drinks has been added sucrose and because traceability of products is now a general principle advocated by the union, i see no reason to exclude its application to the wine sector. for the same reason, i voted in favour of amendment no 310 tabled by the uen group, both of which do not affect the compromise which has been reached with the hard work of mr castiglione. finally, as regards the different position i have taken on these matters in relation to my group, i should like to make it clear that in the interests of the citizen the only political position i feel i must take is to support any proposal which protects the citizen's interests, whatever the group from which it comes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are convinced that the document was not adopted, which was made even worse by the adoption of certain amendments which made it much worse, but above all by the introduction of sugaring, which we had been able to oppose for years, convinced as we are that sugaring has become a real compensatory practice for nature. the majority of parliament wanted to reject the aid for must, which, although purely financial, would have mitigated the damage caused by the authorization of sugaring. this represents the victory of the countries of northern europe and the failure of the mediterranean countries, which have failed to defend the high vocational qualities of their territories. this common marketing practice is detrimental to the quality, the uniqueness and the authenticity of the products, and is detrimental to the winegrowers, producers and consumers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting against, although i voted in favour by mistake and i am officially announcing it to the report on terrorism. a hypocritical report, a report which shows how cowardly the europe of the institutions is in the face of terrorism. you don 't even dare call him by his name: it's called islamic terrorism. and then, we vote against, this house voted against an amendment tabled by myself and other members of the european parliament, in which we called for europe's attention to al qaeda's infiltration of the maghreb. we presented it, of course, a few days ago, but unfortunately yesterday the facts proved us right beyond our most pessimistic forecasts. the islamic butcher shop of al qaeda targets the people, the poor people in algiers and does islamic butchery also of these people, probably of the islamic religion. it is a shame that this is happening at the doorstep of europe, and parliament is rejecting an amendment that calls for revenge, because europe cannot turn a blind eye to this threat at its doorstep.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate my earlier vote in favour of the leichtfried report. the negotiations between parliament and the council, with the help of the commission, which led to this text, although not fully satisfying some of the demands i supported, have led to a good compromise. i would like to stress the importance that the european aviation safety agency will have in controlling not only aviation but also the behaviour of airlines. the agency shall be responsible for the renewal and issuing of certificates and licences and for monitoring the application of uniform safety standards. it will also be able to impose fiscal fines if the security is not properly applied. i therefore welcome the compromise reached with amendment no 15, which guarantees the agency's complete independence and impartiality, including in the withdrawal of licences and the imposition of fines. finally, i would like to stress the importance of staff in the development and operation of this institution. i therefore fully share the rapporteur's call for this work to be made more qualified, also by exploiting the possibilities offered by the staff regulations of officials of the european union.
in writing. mr president, i am voting against this report, not so much because of the general approach of mr castiglione, but because it also contains some positive points, such as the quantitative limits and environmental compatibility of the grubbing-up, the ban on the use of extra-european must and the extension of the measures which can be managed independently by the member states. but i think there is a critical point in the confirmation of the practice of sugaring and in the provision whereby this practice may not be indicated on the consumer information label. the shift to so-called fruit wines is also entirely questionable, as is the general structure of the report in relation to musts. i hope, as an italian, that minister de castro will be able to negotiate with his colleagues a regulatory framework which is more respectful of quality and consumer rights.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of the report by mr castiglione. a reform of the wine sector that restores the momentum and competitiveness of community wines and enables european producers to regain old markets and to acquire new ones is a long-standing need. european producers, and italian producers in particular, are suffering from the ruthless competition of new producers. this is due not so much to the decline in domestic consumption as to too high production costs, too rigid and complex regulations, which often limit the ability to adapt production to changes in demand, and too timid promotion and marketing policies. but above all, the quality of european and italian wines must be enhanced. in order for the european union to consolidate its position as a leader in the wine sector, the reform of the wine cmo must aim to enhance quality, and this means promoting, protecting and strengthening the territorial marks, designations of origin and geographical indications for wine, which represent european quality on the global market.
in writing. we asked the ep to take the issue of terrorism seriously at the july part-session. it was decided, by some enlightened minds, to discuss it in september and vote on it in december: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in the middle east. we award the sakharov prize to mr osman and leave him alone to fight to defend the lives of millions of people in darfur, we continue to ignore the violence of the islamic fundamentalists in somalia and weep unnecessarily over the 50 victims in algeria. shame on you! i cannot therefore support your resolution and i am voting against it.
i would like to thank mr frattini and all the other members who have worked with me, together with the drafters, to draft this resolution. in recent years, as the reports of the european observatory on racism and xenophobia show, there has been an increase in the manifestations of racism and xenophobia. and the rise of these phenomena is also closely linked to the growth and spread of political forces in europe that have leveraged a distorted reading of the phenomena related to immigration, often to advance proclamations in defense of race and identity, to stir up instincts of self-preservation against those who come to europe, who are described as a dangerous terrorist or a criminal, or even using unacceptable anthropological categories with xenophobic and racist slogans. the parties and movements which have emerged in recent years have a strong anti-european nationalist character, with a very strong racist vocation. political propaganda acts on social insecurity to add pieces to the complex mosaic of the war of civilizations. it is fully integrated into the institutional political debate and is sometimes even proposed as the very expression of governments and as a manifestation of the activity of governments. we shall be voting tomorrow on a resolution on extremism, perhaps a somewhat vague title. lenin said that extremism is the infantile disease of communism; we could paraphrase lenin to use this expression to say that extremism is an infantile disease perhaps of all political, religious, economic, ideological projects. mr weber is right: there is right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism, but there is not only right-wing extremism and left-wing extremism, there is neoliberal extremism, catholic extremism, muslim extremism, environmental extremism, anarchist-insurrectionary extremism. but the problem in europe is the growth of right-wing extremism and the phenomena that the rise of right-wing extremism produces. in europe, neo-nazi and neo-fascist political forces and movements have emerged in recent years, which have also manifestly acted against the construction of europe - we have seen this in italy, france, austria, the netherlands, belgium, great britain, germany, denmark, and even switzerland - and are expressions of that crisis which led an intellectual such as alfio mastropaolo to describe the offensive of the new right as the mad cow of democracy. the democratic legitimization of certain political forces has facilitated the penetration of dangerous ideas into the body of european society, fuelling retrograde impulses. a dangerous and sometimes underestimated disease that feeds on ethnocentric drives, often concealed and hidden, sometimes hidden in apparent democratic and legitimate acts. then we should also question our own choices and our own political initiatives. there is a growing emphasis on the need to establish, to build a shared european culture and identity. i think that european identity and culture must be built on the basis of dialogue and contamination with cultures other than those which have fostered and built up the spread and growth of an idea, of a european culture, in recent years. and then there is a great cultural battle to be fought, and i conclude on this. it is not enough to have police or public security activities, we need a major cultural effort and only in this way will we be able to make 2008 the european year of interculture in practice, because europe must be based on the principles of interculturality.
i have received five motions for resolutions with a request for a vote to be taken on the minutes pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda for the joint debate includes: the commission statement on montenegro; the recommendation by marcello vernola, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of montenegro, of the other part (com (2007) 0350, c6 0463/2007 2007/0123 (avc)) (a6-0498/2007).
i am informed that the conference of presidents has decided to hold the debate in this way because the council is busy with the implementation of the council in lisbon tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european vocation of the balkan countries is now a given, as the thessaloniki european council stated in 2003 and as we have repeatedly stated in this parliament, and it is no longer a subject for discussion. montenegro is certainly in a pool position on the road to eu membership, as the facts show: following independence from the union with serbia in 2006, which was democratically declared by a regular referendum and agreed with the serbian government, negotiations for the country-specific stabilisation and association agreement were reopened and concluded in just over two months. the agreement was signed on 15 march, but unfortunately there were some technical problems which slowed down the process, but we are now on the way to the finish line. the commissioner has just announced that they have already opened a branch in podgorica - we congratulate them on this - everything is now ready for the ratification of the agreement. the progress made by the country over the past year, the commitments it has made to the european community, the relentless reform work also in recent days, all these things lead us to approve without hesitation the opinion in favour of the conclusion of the agreement. it is clear that this is not the final goal, on the contrary, it is only a starting point. montenegro should now apply to take all necessary measures to complete the reform process already initiated in order to fulfil the commitments undertaken under the stabilisation and association agreement. in this respect we note the good atmosphere of cooperation between the european parliament and the parliament of montenegro, which we have already met on a number of occasions and where we will be guests next week in podgorica. montenegro has all the numbers to complete this process in a short time, starting with candidate status. montenegro has been experiencing steady economic growth for some years now, which has attracted considerable foreign investment, partly thanks to its business-friendly tax policies. the result is a rapid fall in unemployment from 33 to 12%. the new constitutional charter was adopted a few months ago, a clear sign of how the country is strengthening its democratic prerogatives within the balkan area. the montenegrin authorities are working hard to bring themselves up to european standards. the most recent developments have led us to table five amendments to take account of the updates. a cooperation agreement was signed just these days with the criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia to regulate technical assistance with the latter. we recall that unconditional cooperation with the ad hoc tribunal in the hague is of crucial importance for all the states which have emerged from the break-up of yugoslavia. we also recall that montenegro has never shied away from its international obligations, and has always been commended for its effective cooperation with foreign and judicial authorities. the council also called on the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. another requirement raised by the european parliament concerned the fight against corruption in the public administration and the judiciary: the country is responding positively to european demands, as is shown by the new constitution which introduces mechanisms to protect the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. the capacity of the management class will then be developed by participation in community twinning and exchange programmes with the member states. some of these programmes will be conducive to the growth of younger people and scholars. the free movement of persons, in particular students and researchers, is also being facilitated by the simplification of the procedure for issuing short-stay visas, the subject of specific agreements with the european union signed last september. the final objective is to achieve full visa liberalisation in order to make effective the freedom of movement, another sensitive point of the stabilisation and association agreement, and to facilitate a dialogue that is an opportunity for growth and training. we believe that cultural issues should be given a wide scope, for example by promoting associations and protecting representatives of civil society. the free expression of thought must be guaranteed, as must the right to information. particular mention should be made of the environmental question: the previous constitution defined montenegro as an ecological republic, the first in the world to have given itself this label. the country has been blessed with nature, from the picturesque coastal landscape to the natural bay of bocche di cattaro, to the durmitor mountain range, inscribed on the unesco world heritage list. these riches must be protected by specific legislation, legislation which in many cases exists on paper but is not strictly enforced, often because of a lack of economic resources. the country receives a large income from tourism, but unfortunately tourism itself is at risk of backfiring on the environment, as the accommodation facilities are not equipped with systems suitable to manage, from an ecological point of view, the large influx of tourists. that is why we asked commissioner rehn at another time to direct the commission's attention to promoting environmental policies, particularly with regard to renewable energy sources, waste and water management and coastal protection. montenegro is not indifferent to the problem and is continuing to work on the proper management of natural resources. the spatial plan was recently approved to regulate building activity so as not to distort the coastal landscape.
i am a doctor who has been working on aids for 20 years and i have to say that, frankly, i would have expected the commission to come up with much more precise and pragmatic proposals. in the european union, transmission is primarily by sexual transmission. so, to be very specific: does the commission encourage all member states to organise sex education courses in schools? does it encourage states to reduce the cost of contraceptives, which are currently the only means of stopping sexual transmission? in europe, the second level of transmission is intravenous, mainly for those who use drugs. so what is the commission doing to encourage states to implement harm reduction strategies, which are the only ones that can reduce intravenous transmission for those who are unable, unwilling or unwilling to stop taking substances? as for the rest of the world, i would have expected the commission to come here and say: after eight months of wrangling with parliament, we note that parliament voted to amend article 6 of the trips agreement, even though it stated that it would not lead to any change, but to a commitment by the commission to fight for changes in the wto rules. currently, the trips rules grant patents to multinational companies for 20 years, with the result that drugs do not reach africa. i have heard absolutely nothing of this! if these rules are not changed, then talking about africa is just talking! and lastly, but perhaps not least, while everyone is talking about the fight against aids, you have a commissioner mandelson writing letters to the thai government saying not to make laws allowing the distribution of generic drugs and going to sponsor in his letters companies, with names and surnames, like sanofi-avensis! but i think the commission should have something to say about that!
mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i should like to state the reasons for the motion for a resolution on the shipwrecks in the kerch strait in the black sea. our solidarity goes to the victims of this catastrophe! we call on the council and the commission to follow the situation in the black sea closely and to take concrete action to help reduce the ecological impact of the disaster. europe is not yet ready to prevent the recurrence of very serious accidents such as that which occurred in the black sea, with the full range of necessary rules, which must include, among other things, the responsibility of the states for the safety of the ships they fly in prosecuting those responsible for these environmental disasters in civil proceedings. the european parliament voted on the third maritime safety package at first reading in april 2007, but it has not yet been adopted in its entirety and is inexplicably stalled in the council, despite the commitment on this issue by the portuguese presidency in the committee on transport and in parliament itself. the package, which consists of seven reports, is directed in one direction: it increases maritime safety standards, protects passengers and reduces environmental damage in the event of accidents, and provides for obligations and liability for states, carriers and shipowners. by fragmenting the debate and favouring some issues over others, the council shows that it does not want to take the security issue seriously and is putting the brakes on the whole package. maritime safety is too serious a subject to be the subject of tactics, too serious for the experiences we have already had: erika, prestige, most recently segesta jet in the straits of messina and sea diamond in santorini! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of ships is not compromised. this is why the european parliament believes that all seven proposals must be put forward positively and as soon as possible, before another environmental disaster with human losses takes place: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the establishment of a common system of classification, to require states to control the ships they flag, to carry out inspections of ships in ports and to monitor their movements, to provide for procedures for responding to accidents and to verify and manage liability both to third parties and to passengers. we therefore urge the council not to be insensitive to this tragic warning from the black sea.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of this report is to remove most of the obstacles to the recovery of maintenance payments within europe by creating a legal framework which is suited to the legitimate aspirations of maintenance creditors. the most important starting point is that in the vast majority of cases the maintenance creditor is the weak party and must therefore be protected with particular energy. it is clear that the greatest difficulty is the de facto situation of the debtor. however, it is at least necessary to do what is possible, that is to say, to eliminate any bureaucratic obstacles and thus make certain the applicable law, to give preference to the law of the place of residence of the creditor, to give immediate effect to the judicial decision imposing the obligation to pay maintenance, even in countries other than the one in which it was pronounced. the legal affairs committee, which was called upon to deliver an opinion under the enhanced cooperation procedure on the regulation on jurisdiction and the enforcement of decisions in matters of maintenance obligations, played an important role in producing the text, achieving an important compromise agreement between the main political groups, for which i publicly thank mrs wallis. the main objectives of the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs were to define clearly the maintenance obligation, to extend its scope, to protect the most vulnerable parties involved and to simplify the proposed text. it was necessary to define the maintenance obligation unequivocally and to include all injunctions relating to lump sum payments within the scope of the regulation. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new provision on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. in conclusion, since the time for speaking has expired, i can assure you that the people's party will support this decision with conviction.
mr corbett, apart from the personal views which converge on your sensitivity and your opinion, certainly, under rule 147, this problem will be dealt with by the bureau and, i am sure, the president will follow up in accordance with the provisions of rule 147.
i would like to thank mr daul for his reply, and i shall close the requests for intervention on this point, which is a matter of regulation, by giving the floor to mr beazley.
we also take your suggestion into account, although i personally have some difficulty in imagining these colleagues in day-care, because, in view of the violent propensity shown by some, we could run the risk of a 'massacre of the innocent'. we will act exactly as provided for in rule 147 of the rules of procedure and will certainly act in accordance with it.
the next item is the debate on: the oral question to the commission on the expiry of the so-called 'memorandum of understanding' between the eu and china on the import of certain textile and clothing products, by pedro guerreiro, jacky hénin, roberto musacchio, marco rizzo, ilda figueiredo, helmuth markov, on behalf of the gue/ngl group (o-0077/2007 - b6-0388/2007); the oral question to the commission on textiles, by gianluca susta, ignasi guardans cambó and johan van hecke, on behalf of the alde group, by robert sturdy, tokia saïfi, georgios papastamkos and vasco graça moura, on behalf of the ppe-de group, by erika mann, glyn ford, kader arif and elisa ferreira, on behalf of the pse group, by cristiana muscardini and eugenijus maldeikis, on behalf of the uen group, by caroline lucas and alain lipietz, on behalf of the green group (o-0074/2007 - b6-0383/2007).
substitute writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also speak on behalf of mr gianluca susta, the first signatory to the question, who is absent today because of important commitments in italy. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the sector employs millions of workers in europe, represents a significant turnover in many countries and makes europe the second largest exporter in the world, thus making a very significant contribution to european exports. it is a sector which, in my view, is wrong to consider mature, because in many cases it can have opportunities for modernisation through technological innovation, research into new materials and has a strong link with those areas of fashion, styling and those other specialisations which in many european countries have real excellence recognised throughout the world. of course, this means strong support for the sector through industrial policies that really enable it to face global competitiveness. these are also the suggestions of the high-level group, which was set up at the time and for which we ask the commission what exactly has been the follow-up and implementation. the immediate problems are urgently needed to deal with the fateful date of the beginning of 2008. i will mention only three problems: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. how can the risk of triangulation and thus the problem of double checking of licences be tackled? i mean, for all the tools that are great on paper, the problem is how they're going to be made. finally, the guarantee of the authenticity of products and therefore the need to continue the fight against counterfeiting, piracy and unfair commercial practices and we hope that the council - today it is absent - but we hope that the council adopts the regulation on 'made in' which is really necessary and would be a real guarantee measure. the problem of consumer protection also arises from the point of view of safety and health. we must apply to imported products the same measures we apply to health and safety products for the manufacture of products within our european market. finally, there is a problem and we ask the commission to make it available. if there is still a boom in imports at the beginning of 2008, if there are still, say, spikes, as has happened in the past, we ask that there be a real willingness to deal with new instruments and possibly also new safeguard measures and clauses.
author of the book. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with just a few days to go until the fateful deadline of 31 december 2007, when the system of quotas on textiles from china will be abolished, european industry is growing increasingly concerned. china has long been a member of the world trade organization and has benefited from it in many ways, starting with the ban on re-introducing quotas on its textile exports. in the light of these advantages, it should have been subject to obligations defined and sanctioned in the world trade organisation. we do not think that this has happened at the expense of international competition, which is still far from being fair and with equal rules for all. i am not referring to those comparative advantages of a social and environmental nature which unfortunately still escape a legal framework in multilateral trade negotiations and which will one day, i hope very soon, have to be reconciled instead in the framework of trade which can be described as truly fair. i am referring today to the rules governing a serious fight against counterfeiting, to the safety standards for many products, from toys to medicines, to access for our companies to a market like china, which is not the only one where they still exist, for textiles, but also for other sectors, tariff and above all non-tariff barriers which make it difficult for european industry and small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector to enter the chinese market. in the face of such situations in international trade, we should not be afraid to use, if the legal and economic conditions are right, the legitimate instruments that exist and that multilateral international agreements have established to protect and safeguard the textile industry, precisely to counterbalance the possible negative effects of the fall in quotas. i am referring to the function and efficiency of the high-level group on textile market surveillance which will be responsible for monitoring the development of the market in europe through the system of double control of export and import licences, a system which should make it possible to identify trade triangulation and provide information on the flow of imports. secondly, we must have the courage and the strength to activate the safeguard clause under the wto rules and to restore quotas, at least temporarily, if serious damage is caused to our industry by abnormal import flows. i am thinking of the constant use of trade defence instruments such as anti-dumping and anti-subsidy and, more generally, the maintenance of a constantly open channel of dialogue between china and the european union. our textile industry is not afraid of competition, but it must be able to cope with it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, commissioner, that is why we are calling on the commission and the council to make a stronger and more decisive start on the identification of the origin of the product.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as the memorandum of understanding between the european union and china is about to expire, the questions put seem to me to clearly reflect the legitimate concerns of industry and industry in the light of the impact that imports - or rather the widespread invasion of chinese products in european countries - has had and still has. i have had occasion to stress on several occasions - and i have not been the only one to say so - that genuine competition and the competitiveness of our products on the internal market, even more so than on the external market, is ensured not only and not so much by the quota system, but essentially by defending the sector against unfair competition. unfair, because it is based on immensely lower cost and production conditions. the added value of chinese products at this cost is disproportionate because of the known inconsistencies in production factors compared with those in force on our civilized continent. how can we expect to compete with products produced at infinitely lower costs and which, even in terms of comparative quality, are now almost on a par with many european products? i believe that there is essentially one, the only way to restore some of what i would call fair trade and sustainable competition: i think that a system of surveillance of chinese imports must be based on the ascertainment of production conditions not too far removed from those which support our industries. can't we expect the labor costs to be the same? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a different policy should also be applied to european industries which relocate and compete unfairly with industries which continue to be produced by our states, perhaps through tax measures which balance the advantage with those which do not relocate. i conclude: the distribution conditions in europe should also be monitored more closely, as is certainly the case in italy, where retail distribution is masked as wholesale.
member of the commission. mr president, i find myself in broad agreement with most of the sentiments that have been expressed during this debate. however, i would at the outset reject mr belder’s view that we do not have a common trade policy in the eu, and that the member states are so divided that we cannot pursue a policy on, for example, textiles. our experience in textiles demonstrates only too clearly that we do, in fact, have a common trade policy, through which we have been able to bring together member states with different emphases and different orientations, to weld together their views and to produce a common trade policy in textiles that has been consistently pursued. there may be differences on the use of trade defence instruments, but through the review and anticipated reform i want to build fresh consensus and solidarity amongst member states on the use of those trade defence instruments, and notably on their greater use by smes, for which i want to bring forward proposals. some specific points have been made, for example about the double-checking surveillance which will be in operation in 2008. the commission will monitor textile imports from china in as close to real time as possible. this includes double-checking surveillance and any other monitoring means at the commission’s disposal, such as the taxud surveillance, which provides trade data on the basis of actual trade. in the face of a sudden surge of chinese textiles, the commission stands ready to use all the instruments at its disposal, should the situation so require. however, i would stress that the 2005 deal was a once-and-for-all deal, and the commission does not intend to make proposals for the extension of the levels agreed. as such, it is not opposed to more trade, and an increase could be expected. should the upsurge, however, take such dimensions that action is justified, this will be based on existing requirements and criteria. we do rely on the co-responsibility of china for this smooth transition. china is well aware that it is not in its interests to repeat what happened in 2005. we also rely on the economic operators’ self-interest to avoid a recurrence of 2005. textiles are now moving into the same category as any other product, so the usual instruments – including trade defence instruments – apply, with the usual standards. the issue of eu assistance for the textiles industry has been raised. let me make two last points on this. at the eu level, the commission has committed over eur 70 million, for research and development under the sixth framework programme, to textile and clothing projects, while two innovation project proposals have acquired funding within the europe innova framework. as far as the globalisation fund is concerned, it is as open to the textile sector as to other sectors. there have, so far, been eight formal applications for a contribution from the european globalisation fund, of which four concern textiles. none of these textile cases have yet been approved by the budgetary authority. they are all still being assessed by the commission services. lastly, i turn to the issue of the euro-mediterranean, raised by mr sturdy. the commission has set up a formal euro-mediterranean dialogue on the future of the textile and clothing industry, in order to define common strategies towards achieving better competitiveness of the industry in the euro-mediterranean zone. the objective of the dialogue is to bring euro-mediterranean countries and candidate countries together, in order to find common solutions for improving their competitiveness. i look forward to receiving proposals emerging from that dialogue.
i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
the next item is the report by mr david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on economic and trade relations with korea (2007/2186 ((ini)) (a6-0463/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, let me make three brief points. first of all, on the issue of kaesong, i think that mr ford’s formulation – that we should not automatically exclude kaesong – is the right approach to take. we in the commission will be very prudent on this subject, but i think, on that basis, the amendment is probably a worthwhile one. secondly, i was asked about the overall prospects for the negotiation. well, in this job i have not discovered a trade negotiation that is not in some difficulty. however, i would say that this negotiation is in less difficulty than some other trade negotiations i could identify. lastly, ms mann asks whether the european parliament can obtain rights earlier than the treaty ratification in respect of this agreement. when asked about this in a different context, i overstepped my collective commission responsibility in my enthusiasm, so today i shall be a little bit more careful and simply stress that we will seek to involve parliament as much as possible. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been in this parliament for more than 18 years and in this parliament, with my colleagues, i have always defended human and civil rights, as is shown by the speeches in this chamber and by the questions and motions for resolutions. i do not take lessons from mr schulz, because mr schulz is not the depository of truth, either in this chamber or outside it. democracy, mr president, is a reality which must be defended with respect for individuals and groups. i am ashamed of mr schulz for saying things that he must regret in his conscience. the uen group stands in solidarity with all parliament's officials and especially with the ushers, who on many occasions this year have tried to defend the right to speak and express themselves, which is often denied by some of the majority groups in parliament. the european union therefore stands in solidarity with the ushers, the european union believes in fundamental rights, the european union calls for respect for duties and respect for people. mr. schulz, you withdraw your signature!
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to thank the portuguese presidency for its honest and frankly pro-european commitment over the last six months, and i also think that, probably not all but some of the shortcomings which have also been pointed out by mr watson depend more on the team than on the presidency, in the sense that since you cannot draw blood from a turnip, when you have the council you have, it is a little hard to achieve much more important results. i would like to touch very briefly on the three priorities of the presidency and then make a small note on the subject of climate change and environmental issues. on the subject of the lisbon treaty, i believe - and you know this, mr president - that our group has always considered that we could have taken a less defensive stance and that we could have taken a stance which would not have left the setting of the agenda exclusively in the hands of the anti-europeanists. i think what president gordon brown has done is a scandal and the way he has treated all of you and all of us, i think it is equally scandalous. i think that patience with them must be curtailed and i also think that the way in which the united kingdom, but also the other states, have gotten practically what they wanted with regard to the lisbon treaty, which represents a step backwards with regard to the constitution or the treaty of the constitution, must be something that really makes us think about what the future of europe is. the mandate of the reflection group does not seem to me to be very much in the way of that, we are serious! because you can't do this, you can't do that, you can't do that! i say this because my group agrees with mr spinelli, the only wise man, the only wise man of the european institution and the european parliament. i am also happy that this group of experts cannot do much, but i am not sure what president gonzalez can do with his mandate, but we will of course read his work with great interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to know - you said you had no time to say this - what are the strategic contents of this real partnership, specifically with brazil? it seems to me, and to my group, that the only thing that is clear is that the european union's interest in latin america and in brazil in particular is the interest of its companies, some more than others. we would have liked to have had a clear strategy for latin america, aimed at revitalising the dimension of regional integration and defining a policy which would be geared to greater cooperation on climate change and which would not simply be resolved by supporting the relatively empty marketing of lula in relation to bioethanol. as far as africa is concerned, i must say that my group has always been very critical of a stubbornly ideological approach, especially on the part of the commission, to economic partnership agreements. we are concerned about this à la carte approach, and since the african dimension fails, as our partners have said very clearly, we are trying to have a bilateral agreement with each of the african states. this reminds me of what the united states did with the international criminal court: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. economic partnership agreements are not an instrument of development policy and i think our african partners have made that very clear to us. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the presidency and the commission for the work done in bali, but i think the difficult part will come now, with the transposition into laws and regulations of all the commitments we have made on climate change. because it's okay to go and put on a good show and really hold the line in bali, but then we have to hold it within the european union with clear laws and regulations from this point of view.
