i would support the liberalisation of rail transport services if the social and environmental effects of opening up the railway networks were thoroughly examined. on the other hand, the opening of railway lines from eu countries to third countries gives the green light to unfair competition. the right to use the lines will be acquired by third-country companies established in eu countries which have the greatest interest in transporting passengers to their own countries. some eu countries are at risk of losing their right to transport passengers to neighbouring third countries, as the latter are not obliged to adapt to eu directives and open up the passenger transport market. railway undertakings in the eu countries with an external border would be in a worse position than in other union countries. i call for a vote against the 15th amendment. i would also call for the rejection of the 21st amendment to the sterckx report, which i believe undermines the council's proposal.
for the alde group thank you, mrs petersen, for a comprehensive and, most importantly, very timely report on safety, or more specifically, the insecurity of our roads. the situation is indeed very serious. the european union is facing more problems with the arrival of new members. the gap between them and the older countries with more advanced infrastructure and technology is widening. as the majority of road safety measures are still the responsibility of the member states, i fully support the rapporteur's call for the commission to play a greater role in harmonising the standards applied in different countries and introducing uniform legal provisions, and to this end, to apply best european practices. the resolution is indeed a well-crafted list of measures of various kinds, the implementation of which would undoubtedly help to avoid many tragic incidents on the roads. these include encouraging the intensive introduction of advanced safety technologies in vehicles and on the roads, the harmonisation of transport safety and inspection standards in european countries, driving licence rules, road signage systems, the uniform and universal application of penalties, and the appropriate attention to information and education. the commission's readiness to finance partnership projects between the new and old member states of the european union could be a major incentive in this area. the practical application of innovation could be encouraged by appropriate regulation of the activities of insurance companies. i would stress that member states, especially those with the highest road fatality rates, should set a blood alcohol level of zero for new drivers and professional commercial vehicle and bus drivers transporting passengers and, for example, dangerous goods. member states should also strengthen criminal liability, in particular for drink driving offences. i myself come from the newest member state of the european union, which is the worst off. so i'm particularly concerned about this problem. the death toll in lithuania per million inhabitants or per vehicle is three times higher than in any other country of the former european union. as i was looking closely at the statistics, i noticed a strange pattern: all european countries can be divided into three groups according to the number of road deaths. these are the old states, the new states of the european union, the former soviet bloc countries , the new states of the european union, the former soviet union republics. the interesting thing is that the more a country has been affected by totalitarianism, the less traffic drivers have respect for other traffic drivers, care for their own and other people's health or even life. looks like someone let them off the leash. there's a war going on on the streets. we even joke that lithuania will soon have more deaths per year than the american deaths in iraq. and it's a matter of attitude, of values, of respect and concern for the environment, and so i think that the focus should be on education, on culture, which is where the attitude is formed, starting with the youngest members of society.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to congratulate you once again. the author presented an important proposal to each eu citizen. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the number of cases of cancer in the eu is reduced. the european union has a number of statistics on the number of countries in the european union. the number of newcomers to the eu is much higher than in the netherlands, and the number of lithuanians is proportionally higher than in the netherlands. we must pass on to the new generation the experience they have gained, helping them to develop aggressive driving styles, and to avoid the kind of intolerance that is so much talked about in this room today. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the community's policy on transport. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the community.
gender equality the eu is one of the most important democratic values enabling freedom of expression and full interpersonal relations. however, this value is still not fully realised: women are discriminated against in recruitment, and they are paid significantly less than men for the same work. gender equality, the issue of an integrated approach to gender equality, is horizontal and relevant both at member state and european union level. i congratulate the committee on women's rights and gender equality for initiating the study and report on an integrated approach to gender equality in the work of the european parliament's committees. the committees were assessed on the basis of a questionnaire that reflected the committees' approach and activities in formulating a gender equality strategy, implementing a gender integrated approach, and conducting gender consultation and cooperation activities. there was no specific discussion in the development cooperation committee, where i am responsible for gender mainstreaming. the committee is doing more gender expertise, consulting with ngos, developing countries. i understand that the issue of gender mainstreaming in the committee is faced mainly with obstacles arising from the d'hondt system applied in the european parliament. in this system, even with 30% of women in parliament, women in smaller groups are effectively excluded from the possibility of producing a report or an opinion. at the same time, women are denied the opportunity to showcase their skills and to express their views on issues of importance to their countries, the european union and the world. although the system itself seems to allow small groups to submit legislative documents, it is difficult to implement in practice. the monitoring of the implementation of the integrated approach to gender equality should place this issue in a broader context, in the context of the european parliament's rules of procedure, which need to be improved.
the death penalty is the most heinous form of execution because it is carried out with the approval of society. following these words of bernard shaw, spoken nearly a century ago, more and more people and more countries are signing up. sadly, the inherent human right to life is still ignored in 68 lands. the united states has the highest execution rate in the world, not just asia. the execution of saddam hussein, i would say, became a manifestation of impotence. and here we have a unique opportunity to work hand in hand with the italian government to bring about a worldwide moratorium on executions. the value of the approach to the death penalty also unites the eu countries and the union's voice is therefore important. i hope that the united nations general assembly will support the proposed moratorium on the use of the death penalty, and that its abolition should be the ultimate goal. at the same time, it is necessary to condemn the statements made by officials of some of the new eu countries about the possibility of legalising the death penalty. public opinion needs to be oriented towards europe.
mr president, the european parliament is discussing the conclusion of agreements between the european community and the russian federation on the recognition and facilitation of issuing short-stay visas. concerning the recognition agreements, our reservations relate to the absence of the regulatory framework for implementing the agreement as well as the fact that the agreement does not explicitly exclude asylum seekers from its scope. concerning the visa facilitation agreement, reservations are even more serious and should be taken into account. mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the importance of these concerns. even though the ec treaty provides merely for parliament to be consulted in cases of this kind, it should continue to call on the council and commission to fulfil their information obligations so that european decisions can be taken on a democratic footing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the vice-president of the european commission, mr giunteris verheugen, surprised the whole european union by presenting his vision of eu public administration reform. he felt that small member states should not delegate their own commissioners to be responsible for minor areas of community activity. they could send their representatives to work in the important offices of the commissioners, and the role of small countries in the european commission would be over. the big countries would lead in important areas and make the right decisions. what areas are not relevant? could they be led by commissioners from the major countries and made relevant? why not set a similar example for germany and take the lead in multilingualism, for example? can only a member of the commission from a large country be competent? one of the eu's most important guiding principles is the principle of non-discrimination. this is a proposal to discriminate against eu members on the basis of their size. can such commissioners offer anything positive to reform the eu? and their disagreements seem to indicate that many of them are unfit to work in the eu's international community.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank everyone who took the time to come here, at this late date in the year, to the plenary session to discuss such an important issue as the integration of sustainability into development cooperation policy. the eu's key documents the treaty on european union and the eu's sustainable development strategy define sustainable development as development that meets the needs of society today without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. sustainable development is an overarching principle of eu law that should affect all eu policies, including development cooperation policy. one of the most important goals of our society is to fight poverty in the world, to pay back some of the old debts of developing countries, to help them transition from the status of least developed countries to developing countries, and then to the status of developed countries. the developed world knows what progress, modern life, costs. i am referring to the environmental impact of human activities, the various economic sectors that we develop, particularly industry. this is a huge price the world is paying, even if not all countries have and use technologies that cause greenhouse gases, co2 or other pollution. we all pay for it, and we would like to see it reduced. we're looking beyond our own economies to make the right decisions, and we want developing countries to use clean renewable energy, clean technologies, and it's not that simple. the communication highlights the challenges of sustainable development and suggests some possible solutions for developing countries. and not just for developing countries, but for the eu itself. sustainable development has three main aspects: sustainable economic growth, environmental protection and social justice and cohesion. this means that economic, environmental and social issues are interrelated and mutually reinforcing and their interlinkages should emerge at the policy-making stage. economic issues related to governance, human rights, democracy, regional integration and other aspects of the economy and life. they are addressed through financial support from the eu and other countries, institutional capacity building in developing countries, the fight against corruption, new approaches to help markets and businesses achieve sustainable development, attracting foreign direct investment and more. the environment is affected by illegal deforestation, which promotes corruption and the possibility of armed conflict, by lack of access to drinking water and sanitation, by pollution, in particular the greenhouse effect, and by the depletion and degradation of natural resources, which are also prerequisites for conflict situations. environmental issues are also important in the social field, such as access to drinking water and sanitation, access to education, health systems, and the fight against poverty. in the context of the three pillars of sustainable development, it is clear that promoting economic growth and eradicating poverty while protecting the environment are the main challenges for eu development cooperation policy. in this policy, the eu must therefore also encourage other major economic players, such as the us, china and india, to contribute to the implementation of global sustainable development. promoting economic growth requires the implementation of sustainable development in all sectors, investment in clean technologies, the introduction of alternative energy technologies and, crucially, the application of codes of conduct for companies. as regards the environment, it is important to stress that multinational corporations operating in developing countries must respect the environment. the implementation of the common social responsibility and code of conduct for european enterprises must be started. to combat environmental degradation in developing countries, the eu should work more closely with small and medium-sized enterprises to develop their respect for the environment. preserving biodiversity, monitoring the ecological state of the environment and taking the necessary measures to maintain it is a duty we all owe to future generations. in the social sphere, we need to pursue the millennium development goals, promote sustainable consumption, fight disease, and channel more of our official development assistance into health and environmental education. it is also necessary to involve civil society, ngos and women in addressing sustainable development issues, and to intensify social dialogue. in addition to the three areas of sustainable development, i would also like to mention institutional capacity building as a priority horizontal measure for all sectors. assistance for institutional, administrative and legal reform, infrastructure development and public financial management must take into account environmental, economic and social impacts. these are long-term actions to achieve sustainability in development cooperation policy, but the eu can act now to achieve sustainability, tackle agricultural export subsidies, encourage imports of products that have been produced in a sustainable way and without violating international agreements, use migration policies to stem intellectual flows from developing countries, promote investment in developing countries and realise 0.7% of gdp for development aid.
dear president of the parliament, lithuania celebrates the restoration of its state on february 16, but this calendar, which is distributed to all members of the european parliament, indicates that we celebrate our state on february 1, not on february 16. another thing: in this calendar, the dates of 4 public holidays of my country are confused. just imagine that the ionian islands, which the whole christian world celebrates on june 24, lithuania, it is written, celebrates on june 1. this is absurd, a total neglect on the part of the parliament's services. i understand that you, as president, were not responsible then, but i want you and other leaders of this parliament to avoid making such mistakes in the future. these calendars are for us to get to know each other better, our colleagues in other countries, their holidays. and here is a complete set of errors, at least in relation to lithuania.
the more urbanised a society is, the greater the amount of waste and the greater the problems associated with its management. the quantities are enormous, and this reality shows the relevance of waste regulation at european level and the need to raise awareness of waste management. i support the commission's initiative to simplify, update and make much clearer the general waste directive. articles 29 to 31 of the directive lay down new requirements for member states to draw up national waste prevention programmes. it is essential that waste is given greater attention not only at european level but also at national level. however, the requirement to develop waste prevention programmes for all waste in general is difficult to implement because of the specific waste streams and different possibilities for applying prevention measures. it would be more appropriate to provide guidelines for the development of national waste prevention programmes, identifying priority waste areas, and leaving it to the member states to decide on other waste for which such programmes are to be developed.
i welcome the rapporteur's very ambitious commitment to halt the dangerous growth of the waste mountain. if we can't get to the breach, it's not the humans who will close the dumps, it's the humans who will close us. it's time to learn to live differently, because like climate change, the consequences can be difficult to reverse or fatal. in many of the new member states of the european union, including lithuania, landfill remains the most common form of waste management. municipalities lack the expertise and resources to take waste prevention, sorting and recycling measures. most people are not yet ready to support more advanced waste management methods, and lack control. manufacturers and importers shall endeavour to avoid liability for waste management. the european union is investing heavily in improving the situation. i would like to encourage the old eu countries to be more energetic in passing on their experience to the new ones by encouraging private investment in waste management, improving legal regulation, explaining to people the need to protect nature and not cut the branch on which we all sit.
economists have long recognised the positive impact of european enlargement on national economies, especially those of the large countries. and this positive impact comes mainly from trade, from trade with each other. unfortunately, i think we are in the process of centralisation and the decisions, both in the energy sector and in the lisbon strategy, are promoting centralisation. that means we may not have anything to trade with each other, there will be multiple global centers. i believe that one of the most important and essential things for the european engine to work, to be able to be a competent country, a competitive country in the world, would be to promote the balanced development of all the european countries, through the development of research centres, the development of energy centres in different countries. to even out the economy, and then that engine of ours won't go off.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the implementation of the lisbon strategy, i would like to emphasise one of the four priorities: energy. it is in this area that the eu still lags behind in the face of limited competition in markets and network services. the baltic states remain isolated from an energy perspective - both in electricity and especially in gas. the nord stream, which is being built under a bilateral agreement between germany and russia, will not solve the problems of gas markets and the gas market. the speech by the russian president in munich showed a reversal of imperial policy and apparently no change in the use of energy for political purposes. the eu's single energy market would also be a guarantee of security against third countries and would help to deal with energy crises that can arise both within the eu and from outside. in negotiations with russia, safeguards are needed to avoid monopoly dictates from third parties. and to make us all feel safer, i call on the council and the commission to launch an independent expertise on the consequences of the northern gas corridor as a matter of urgency. the baltic sea does not belong to two countries, but to the community as a whole.
member of the commission. i should like to thank the member for his comments. on the question of the baltic sea pipeline, of course it is a pipeline of trans-european interest, but what is important is that we, as the european union – that is, all of the member states – show european solidarity. that means we have to show solidarity with our own member states; this is our position.
member of the commission. together with the us, we intend to finance a feasibility study for a trans-caspian pipeline which also includes the question of liquefied natural gas, lng. this is a contribution to the diversification of energy supplies to europe that we think is highly important at this stage.
last summer, russia cut off gas supplies to lithuania through the druzhba pipeline, as in other cases mentioned here. that means we need to look for alternative supply routes. does the commission not think that there should be a concerted approach to infrastructure in the baltic sea, starting with an independent impact assessment of the northern gas corridor before any new roads are built?
member of the commission. first of all i think i made it clear in my first reply that there are funds available to support cultural heritage. i think that it is a very important issue and one that has been taken into account by the two regions. there are possibilities under subsidiarity, which we consider very important in our rural development policy, and the third axis of that policy could take into account any desire specifically to support these sectors in the different regions.
i think this is a really important issue because the czech republic and germany, bohemia, were separated for half a century, and it seems to me that those regions that were separated during the cold war need special attention and special resources to grow up again. the same can be said of the lithuanian-polish border, which was separated throughout the 20th century and divided the two states, both of which were in the same state in the middle ages. how would you respond to the question of the need to give special attention to the adults in those regions that were isolated during the cold war?
for the ppe-de group i will speak about the eu-russia readmission agreement, although in fact both agreements on readmission and on the simplification of the procedure for issuing short-stay visas are being discussed together. the european union's relations with russia cover an increasing number of areas. for such a relationship to be truly successful, it must be dominated by values rather than by mere technical considerations. only in this way can we achieve the goal of a more open europe, one that respects fundamental values and can change the world for the better. in my view, the main problem with the eu-russia readmission agreement is that it is unclear whether the main focus is on human rights or whether the preference is given to a generalised approach to returns, i.e. security over humanity. i fully understand that when it comes to readmission agreements, the desire to equate illegal immigration with crime must be resisted. the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the return policy on the situation of migrants and refugees in the union. however, in order to achieve satisfactory statistical results, we must pay particular attention to human rights, i.e. practical aspects must not overshadow moral ones. it takes only one instance of human rights violation to cause concern. mr president, commissioner, i think it is necessary to point out that the major shortcoming is that there is no regulatory framework to implement the agreement. i think that in principle this agreement can be supported, but i would like to stress once again the need to strengthen the capacity of the russian federation to manage migration so that its authorities can assume the obligations that will be imposed on them under the readmission agreement from the date of entry into force of this agreement.
the european union is breaking down the barriers to communication between people of goodwill. after five years of joint work with russia, the visa regime border between the eu and russia is becoming somewhat lower. the entry into force of visa facilitation and readmission agreements will make it easier for a large number of people to travel and communicate. the affected persons are the kaliningrad citizens travelling to lithuania and poland, and the lithuanians and poles travelling to kaliningrad. now they do it for free, and as a relief the contract will cost them 35 per visa. this is a reminder of the principles of cooperation on both sides of the border and of the anti-isolationist policy of the kaliningrad region, in which both russia and the eu are interested. vilnius, warsaw, brussels and berlin are negotiating bilateral solutions with moscow within the framework of the flexibility of the provisions of the schengen agreement. lithuania has paved the way for the eu as the first and only eu country to have a readmission agreement with russia. three years' experience is a plus. during the period of the agreement, almost 2 million people crossed the lithuanian-russian border, but the agreement was never used. i agree with many of my colleagues who have strongly criticised the treaty, particularly for its lack of a proper link with human rights and freedoms. and yet it's a step in the right direction. the long road to the breaking of the wall of weapons still has many obstacles. residents of eu countries must register when entering russia, and additional permits are required when travelling to certain regions. these 'hidden' internal visas will be abolished as they restrict the free movement of citizens. we need to be honest about this.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i can answer the questioner as follows: the objectives of the european system of central banks are laid down in article 105 of the ec treaty. the main purpose of the provision is to maintain price stability. but apart from the objective of price stability, the european system of central banks supports the general economic policies in the community in order to contribute to the achievement of the community's objectives as set out in article 2 of the ec treaty. the european system of central banks shall act in accordance with the principles of a market economy and free competition. this includes in particular the effective allocation of resources in accordance with the principles of the ec treaty. the provisions of article 107 (5) of the ec treaty may be supplemented by the council acting by a qualified majority either on a recommendation from the european central bank and after consulting the commission or by unanimity on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european central bank. in both cases the consent of the european parliament is required. however, since article 105 of the ec treaty, referred to at the outset, is not one of the provisions referred to in article 107 (5), it can only be amended by the general procedure for amending the treaty provided for in article 48 of the ec treaty. the council is not currently considering any such proposals.
the president of the council. we have established an important principle in the establishment of the european central bank, namely the independence of the central bank. the commission has to assess, on the basis of various indicators, how it ultimately regulates the money market, including the question of interest rate increases. the council and the member states are not therefore able to influence monetary policy.
the european central bank has its own sustainable inflation rate, which is about 2 percent, approaching 2 percent. however, this is not taken into account in the application of the maastricht criteria. the maastricht criteria calculate inflation using a completely different methodology and are not correlated with the european central bank's inflation rate. does it not seem that these indicators should be combined to make it clear to everyone what sustainable inflation is?
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a whole package of measures was discussed at the tripoli conference, because we believe that it is not a proposal or a solution that will solve the migration problem, but a series of measures. the issue of legal migration was also discussed. various points were raised with regard to the extent to which this aspect can be addressed. but the question was also raised of whether, for example, africans living in europe - in their view, in the diaspora - might be able to return to their countries of origin for a certain period of time to help build up education and jobs. it was also discussed how to reduce the costs of sending money to these countries, for example. for example, it may be that out of eur 1 000 to be sent to a country, only eur 800 arrive because the fees are so high. so a whole package of measures was discussed with the african union states, including morocco. and it will also discuss what possibilities can be created between the european union and the states, for example to enable temporary employment in europe.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we had a conference in july, but it was not called 'african union and eu', but a conference initiated by morocco, spain and france in rabat. there the west african route was discussed. but it became clear at the tripoli conference that there is another african route, the east-west route, that we also need to focus on. but i want to come back to your specific question. in fact, there are examples of success. it was also important to make clear at this conference that the causes can also be tackled by having best governance, by the government choosing a form in which its citizens may also participate in the raw materials that are mined and sold, and in connection with the issue of training. the commitment of the european union member states to provide administrative, police and judicial assistance where requested has also been made clear. a few years ago, in europe, we talked about best practices in the context of various discussions - to see what the neighbour is doing, what is developing positively - this concept can certainly be applied to certain countries in africa. this overall approach has been discussed and it is now up to us to take action in the various fields, although i must say that not every step is necessary in every case, since there are also countries which have already made very great progress as a result of internal developments. but the european union has promised solidarity in this matter.
mr. chairman, malta is the country most affected by illegal migration from africa. and several countries, including my own country, have invited illegal immigrants into their countries in solidarity with malta, while at the same time legalizing them. what would the minister's opinion be, would this have a positive or a negative effect on illegal migration?
the president of the council. we have already spoken in the debate on employment and the fact that there are different structures and developments in the various countries. there are intersections where we have the same developments in different member states. the first is to take stock of the situation and to find concrete answers. i have just mentioned in my reply various areas which we want to develop in order to bring this subject even more into the spotlight. i would like to say that there are different areas for young people. in the year of equal opportunities, the question arises: how can young people find a job or a place to train? where are there disadvantages in society, for example for young people with an immigrant background? these are all topics which we intend to discuss at various conferences this year.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for your supplementary question. here again we can take up the thread of earlier discussions at spring summits which raised the question of triggering investment in the member states to enable reconciliation of family and work. there are certainly a number of aspects to consider. however, one important point was that france and other member states were singled out where there is some success. i come from a country where we can also see a deficit, but we are trying to solve these things. it is important not to offer a solution centrally, but to be guided by the principle: look to the neighbour who has done something good. how can we implement this in our member states? we shall then arrive at a different result than we have at present.
my question concerns the joint measures which could help us. how would you assess the proposal that the best examples in europe should be selected and recommended during the german presidency - together with the european commission, of course. you mentioned france, but there are other good examples. this would be particularly important for the new member states.
i would also like to support my colleagues who have noted the constructive cooperation between the european investment bank and the parliament in addressing the issues at hand. we all face a major challenge: the modernisation of the enlarged european internal market. i would say that the european internal market can be described by the popular economic term 'transition economy'. these economies are characterised by uncertainties, risks, new challenges, and a rapidly changing situation. i therefore believe that the european investment bank needs to be more bold in proposing new financial instruments, and i would like to point out that the bank is working in this direction both in terms of lending and investment, especially in non-euro area countries. another aspect that is important in these 'transition economies', as i know from my experience, is that market participants need to be trained to use these instruments. and many projects -- very good projects -- are not absorbed because of a lack of that knowledge. i would also like to mention the famous jeremy project for small businesses and the jasper and jessica projects - they will not be effective if the bank, which has accumulated a huge amount of knowledge, does not share that knowledge and does not pay a lot of attention to technical assistance. perhaps this disconnect and the work through intermediaries in the regions makes it impossible to feel the contribution of this bank at the level of the ordinary citizen or the small enterprise or the small city. i hope that the bank will consider the possibility of bringing its solutions closer to citizens, to the regions. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the alde group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in energy prices has reached unexpected proportions in recent times. the price increase is driven by the increased demand for energy resources from new large market players, in particular china. in addition, energy resources are made more expensive by the cost of extracting them and by the geopolitical instability of oil-exporting regions. the russian policy of using energy as a tool for economic and political pressure on partners is also influencing price increases. world oil prices have risen by almost 15 percent this year. in addition to the above, the opec decision to reduce oil production is influenced by the unexpectedly cold weather in the united states. as an external factor, as mentioned in the report, price increases have affected the economies of many eu countries, both in the euro area and in the new member states. my country, lithuania, whose economy is heavily dependent on imported energy resources, has exceeded the maastricht inflation criterion of 0.07% due to a sudden increase in energy prices and has therefore not become a member of the euro area as expected at the beginning of the year. the increase in energy prices is unpredictable in real terms and will affect the possible accession dates of the candidate countries to the euro area, apparently moving them further and further away. should we simply note the impact of rising energy prices on the eu economy, or should we draw conclusions from this? if the price increases were sudden and unexpected and objective, why are the consequences blamed on the member states alone? after all, europe only started talking about a common energy policy after the ukraine-russia crisis in 2006. the oil and gas conflict between belarus and russia ended successfully earlier this year. it is good that the report includes a whole chapter calling for europe to act now by investing in innovation, energy infrastructure, renewable energy, technology platforms, the clean energy transition. i think that in the light of the energy situation in the eu and the world, we should also discuss the safe use of nuclear energy, taking into account not only the cost but also the impact on climate change, as we celebrate the 50th anniversary of euratom this year. the author of the report calls for the creation of a genuine euro-mediterranean energy market to be given top priority. what is the real europe? where is the neighbourhood policy, which includes cooperation not only with the mediterranean countries but also with the eu's eastern neighbours? what is the european union negotiating with russia in the framework of the new eu-russia cooperation agreement? have we given up on russian oil and gas without a common eu energy market? i think that the author's narrow approach is unacceptable for the new eastern eu member states.
for the ppe-de group i believe that today's debate on the dialogue between the chinese government and the envoys of the dalai lama is particularly important for many reasons, but above all because on 17 january this year negotiations on a new eu-china framework agreement on partnership and cooperation officially began in beijing. we have repeatedly supported the commitment of the government of the people's republic of china and his holiness the dalai lama to resolve the issue of tibet through dialogue. i believe that the european parliament, which has in the past adopted a number of resolutions on tibet, the human rights situation in the people's republic of china and the dialogue between the chinese people's republic and the dalai lama's envoys, should call on the council, the commission and the member states of the european union to actively support the intensification of this dialogue and to seek results. in the absence of tangible results on the core issues, the european union can continue to play a role in facilitating a negotiated solution to the tibet issue, including through the appointment of a european union special representative for tibet, in consultation with both parties. i support the provision in our resolution under consideration to invite the high representative and the secretary-general of the council to include in the annual report to parliament on the common foreign and security policy information on the progress of the dialogue between the people's republic of china and his holiness the dalai lama's envoys in 2007 and beyond. i believe that the german presidency could initiate and adopt a declaration setting out how the european union could contribute to a peaceful and negotiated solution to the tibet issue. in conclusion, i would like to thank thomas mann and the other colleagues who have initiated the resolution under discussion today. (applause) i would like to thank you.
we hear about bloody explosions in iraq every day, and the number of victims is increasing. but there is a lack of information about another tragedy -- the painful fate of the refugees who have affected four million iraqis. almost one in six of the country's population has been forced to flee their homes, and the number of refugees is growing, their situation dire. the united nations is trying to rescue, but it is not succeeding because the international community is still not aware of the seriousness of the situation. we welcome the initiative of sweden to grant refugee status to 9,000 iraqis. so far, few eu countries, especially the new ones, have decided to follow suit. but the united states has a special responsibility, which has created, whether it wants to or not, a situation in which iraq is increasingly sinking into the dustbin of a state torn apart by internal and external conflicts. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i would like to draw your attention to our translation work. the quality of the translations is not good enough, and i found out why. it turned out that instead of hiring permanent staff, the translation department had started hiring many temporary workers. this reduces the quality of the translation. it is explained that this is to save money, but i have been trying for four months to get rid of the translators on those committees where i am the sole representative of the citizens of my country, and i have not been able to do so. i would consider all of this to be evidence of the problems in the translation service in terms of the management of the translation service and i would urge that the working group on the implementation of parliament's reforms consider the issue of the quality of the translation management.
last autumn we discussed the european commission's white paper on services of common interest. it is regrettable that the liberalisation of the services market has so far been very limited and that the definition of services themselves is unclear. today we have universal social services, which are defined as services that meet the criteria of universal importance universality, transparency, continuity, accessibility, etc. they contribute to high employment, a high level of social protection and health, gender equality and economic, social and territorial cohesion. but these are just general statements. the rapporteur points out that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should apply to social services of general interest. however, if the subsidiarity principle is applied, the definition of what constitutes a social service of general interest will be left to the states, and we will never have the free movement of services, which is now one of the most important means of increasing the competitiveness of the eu economy. market protectionism persists, which not only reduces the competitiveness of the economy, but also prevents consumers from being provided with the right quality of services in a timely manner. as regards services, including social services of general interest, we should first define what they are.
it is a pleasure to have the house today discussing the 2006-2010 guidelines for equality between women and men. the implementation of these guidelines, which set out six priorities, requires measures with a sustainable impact. among the priority areas, all of which are important, i would like to highlight the area of equal economic independence for women and men. the figures show that women are discriminated against in terms of pay. in the eu, women earn 15% less than men. in some countries, these figures are much higher, particularly in the public sector. the european community has been working on equal pay legislation for 30 years. however, these laws are not being implemented in practice. so how can gender, and especially women's economic independence, be achieved in a way that will allow women to escape poverty, especially in single-parent families, single-parent families, violence in families? has the commission brought at least one action against the member states for failure to implement the equal pay directives and article 119 of the ec treaty?
for the alde group i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and to support the views expressed by many of my colleagues. but i would like to mention another aspect which is very often forgotten, especially by our commission representatives, namely that we are talking about a process which is not new. financial groups are already active in the european union and we know that the balanced development of the country's market requires ensuring that these large groups do not drive out small companies, which are the bearers of innovation and do not have the opportunity to neglect the interests of consumers. i'll give you an example from my country, where the big financial groups are so well established that they make 90 percent of the profits, and it's clear that consumers are being hurt. this means that when deciding on acquisitions and takeovers, the creation of new financial groups, we need to allow the supervisory authorities to assess the structure of those groups and how flexible those new financial groups will be to innovate and to assess consumer needs. we cannot accept that in our current handling of the financial groups we forget that they have not yet clearly defined what will happen if one of their subsidiaries in one country or another becomes inefficient and, say, goes bankrupt. there's still no answer as to who's going to pay the consumers. i think it's a complex problem, related to better management. therefore, the coordination of merger and capital raising supervision in the financial market in order to protect the interests of small enterprises and consumers is an integral part of the process.
member of the commission. madam president, i am pleased to be given the opportunity to answer this very important question. the honourable member's question concerns whether the commission has a complete picture of greenhouse gas emissions from road transport and what measures it proposes to reduce the environmental impact of these emissions. the commission services, in cooperation with the european environment agency, shall record and monitor the annual emissions of all internal transport in the european union. i would first like to refer to the carbon dioxide emissions to which the honourable member's question refers. in 2003, carbon dioxide emissions from the transport sector within the european union of 25 amounted to 951 million tonnes. they accounted for about 21% of the total greenhouse gas emissions of the european union. road transport produced 892 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions, i.e. road transport has the largest share of greenhouse gas emissions within the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport system is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. air transport has domestic flights and international flights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the effects of the crisis. it should also be noted that aviation emissions have increased at a faster rate than those of other modes of transport. finally, the climate burden from aviation is greater than the figures suggest, because at high altitude, aircraft emissions affect ozone, which is a greenhouse gas, and affect cloud formation. for these reasons, if we want to limit the climate impact of transport, we must take action covering all means of transport. in the case of road transport, the commission already announced in its communication on co2 and cars its intention to propose a legislative framework to limit co2 emissions from cars and small lorries. the average emissions of new cars sold in the european union should be capped at 120 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometre by 2012. improvements in engine and vehicle technology will reduce emissions to 130 grams per kilometre, and with additional measures we will have an additional reduction of 10 grams per kilometre and thus 120 grams per kilometre. the commission has also proposed a revision of the fuel quality directive. the proposal for a directive requires fuel producers to limit the greenhouse gas emissions from fuels during their life cycle. this effort will result in a 10% reduction in emissions from road transport by 2020. to give you an idea, over 10 years, the reduction in emissions is equivalent to the current annual emissions of spain and sweden. so far i have referred to the carbon dioxide emissions from road transport. the commission has proposed that air transport be included in the eu's emissions trading system. our proposal is before parliament. in addition to carbon dioxide emissions, transport also generates other negative emissions for the environment and human health, such as particulate matter and emissions that contribute to ozone, such as nitrogen dioxide and volatile organic compounds. in the cafe programme we calculated that, if no further action is taken by 2020, transport in total would account for 51% of nitrogen dioxide in land-based emissions and 20% of pm 2,5. the commission has therefore proposed limits on car emissions and last december agreement was reached on the euro 5 and euro 6 standards. the commission also intends to propose the introduction of new euro 6 standards for lorries during the course of the year.
member of the commission. thank you very much for your supplementary question. i fully agree with you that we should not focus solely on emissions from airlines, although airlines contribute 3% of the carbon dioxide produced in the european union and have additional effects because of vapours and nitrogen oxides, because these emissions are occurring at a very high altitude, and because the increase from 1990-2004 was 87% and is still rising. of course, other sources of carbon dioxide like shipping contribute more in total to eu carbon emissions, but they are not increasing as fast. furthermore, if we calculate the transport unit per tonne of carbon dioxide, then we see that they contribute less than aviation. you quite rightly mention other sources such as homes. i can go further and mention landfills, f gases, or agriculture: all these are sources of carbon dioxide and the commission is taking measures to address these particular issues. there is also the legislation on car emissions, with the target of 120 grammes. this is to be achieved by engine modifications and improvements up to 130 grammes, with an additional 10 grammes to be achieved by component improvements and biofuels. biofuels will also be very important for land transport, especially with the amendment of the fuel quality directive, which will not only promote sustainable biofuels but also reduce emissions of carbon dioxide. this will be accompanied by a series of other measures adopted with your help and cooperation and aimed at effectively fighting climate change, which is the number one problem in the world today.
member of the commission. we have two problems: one is carbon dioxide, the other one is other air pollutants. i understand that in london there are additional measures. actually, very recently there was an expansion of the congestion charge zone, so the local authorities are taking the measures they think appropriate in order to fight climate change, by reducing carbon dioxide and the various pollutants emitted by passenger cars. but you are absolutely right, the better the public transport is, the better it is for the environment, especially if the means of public transport, such as buses, are using sustainable fuel. i think that the introduction of euro 5 and euro 6 will be of great importance for london, as it will be for other cities in the european union.
member of the commission. i think you will indeed have both commissioners tonight, because i understand that there is another question coming up and mr verheugen will be here, so you will hear the same answer. however, from my point of view as commissioner for the environment, i can assure you that the environmental benefit will be the same. what we have calculated in terms of the contribution of passenger cars towards our quota target, which is 0.8 % of the 8 % target, will be achieved, but, of course, in a slightly different way. we have 130 g/km delivered by improvements in car engines and an additional reduction of 10 g through the manufacture of car components and biofuels. we have therefore left the environmental benefit the same, so, as commissioner for the environment, i can assure you that i am very happy with it. of course, there is a difference: some of the burden is shifted from car manufacturers to car component manufacturers and to biofuels.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission fully agrees with the honourable member that it is important to improve the awareness and information of young people about the environmental challenges facing our society. during the 1990s, the commission organised pilot projects to promote environmental education in schools. this effort included both support for programmes dealing with specific environmental issues and the development of curricula. many member states have now included environmental education in their national school curricula. the commission has also developed communication and initiative tools for the environment, which are an important resource for school programmes and for young people in general. for example, the environment dg's 'environment for young europeans' website offers young people environmental information in 20 languages. this website is interactive and analyses environmental problems in an easy, enjoyable and educational way. in particular, it shows children ways in which they can protect the environment. schools play a key role in the commission's awareness-raising campaign 'climate change is up to you' launched in may 2006. schools participating in the campaign are required to record and monitor their efforts to reduce carbon emissions and to declare their commitment to combating climate change. the campaign website contains a wealth of material and is aimed at young people. many of our publications are also written for young people. children's books cover a variety of environmental issues, such as the rapid increase in waste, the destruction of the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect and climate change, the importance of preventing river pollution and the importance of biodiversity. other publications include a collection of drawings and stories by children and an educational brochure on the natura 2000 network. i have copies of these publications in several languages as well as a video of the commission's campaign "climate change depends on you" presented by mtv - the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and i got a bunch of flyers back there. i would also like to point out that environmental education programmes are eligible for funding under the action programme in the field of lifelong learning for the period 2007-2013.
member of the commission. very briefly, you know that the life + regulation is under discussion here in parliament and in the council. provided that it is approved, programmes of the kind you mentioned before will be able to be financed.
i think, commissioner, you would agree that young children may not be old enough to understand why they should be concerned about environmental neglect, but they are old enough to appreciate the beauty of the world and to begin developing good habits as regards environmental issues. what i understood from your reply is that you are quite satisfied with what the european union is doing in this field so, are we doing enough? and do you have any new ideas about what is to be done in the near future?
the commission's vice-president i apologize in advance to mrs kratsa tsagaropoulou, because my answer today will not be complete. i think that this work must continue so that i can establish priorities in the autumn. your question was entirely justified. we have a good document here, and now we must begin to prepare the priorities we are going to give to this policy of extending the transeuropean networks, a policy on which mrs loyola de palacio herself had worked very hard. i hope that all this work will be able to lead to something concrete and i will be sure, mrs kratsa, to keep you informed as soon as possible of the development of our thinking and proposals.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission is fully aware of the important role that hydrogen and fuel cells can play in the successful transition to a more sustainable energy system. it recognises that a key issue is the development and deployment of processes that can supply the required quantities of hydrogen in a way that leads to a net reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and which is also environmentally sustainable. initially, the bulk of hydrogen is expected to come from fossil fuels, firstly without, and then, in the medium term, with carbon capture and sequestration. the long-term goal is to produce hydrogen from carbon-free and carbon-lean energy sources. under the fifth and sixth framework programmes, projects have investigated the potential of hydrogen as an energy carrier at the global level, as well as looking at many different options for producing and using hydrogen, while analysing the economic, social and environmental opinions for different pathways. under fp 6, ec funding for hydrogen and fuel cell research and demonstration exceeds eur 300 million. around 20% of the activity concerns hydrogen production covering short-term pathways, such as advanced electrolysers, as well as long-term technologies, such as biological and photo-electrochemical processes. technical research is complemented by socio-economic studies and demonstration. allow me to give you some practical examples. under the fifth framework programme, the commission supported the cute and ectos programme, which demonstrated 30 hydrogen fuel cell buses and hydrogen infrastructure in ten european cities and contributed to establishing its credibility as an alternative to petrol and diesel. under fp6, these activities have further expanded into a demonstration of a fleet of 200 hydrogen-fuelled vehicles, including buses, cars and small specialist vehicles, as part of the hydrogen for transport initiative. a further example of a project financed under the sixth framework programme, and whose results were just recently published, is the hydrogen internal combustion engine project. this is a new type of hydrogen technology that will lead to new and more efficient engines. the project has tested ways to make hydrogen-fuelled engines that are as efficient as current diesel engines, yet not polluting and with little or no trade-off in terms of engine size and power. these hydrogen-fuelled engines offer clear advantages over current generation engines and promise to compete with other proposed systems in terms of performance as well as cost. under this project, innovative fuel injection concepts for engines for passenger cars, as well as for trucks and buses, were developed. finally, let me give you another example, worth mentioning because it was awarded the descartes prize for collaborative scientific research just last week. it is the hydrosol project, an innovative solar thermo-chemical reactor for the production of hydrogen from water-splitting, resembling the familiar catalytic converter of automobiles. the integration of solar energy with systems capable of splitting water will have an immense impact on energy economics worldwide, as it is a promising route for providing affordable renewable solar hydrogen with virtually zero co2 emissions. there are of course many more such examples and if the honourable member wishes, i can provide her with a list of projects. under the current seventh framework programme, which was launched just recently, research and technological development and demonstration in the field of hydrogen and fuel cells will benefit from very extensive stakeholder consultation undertaken through the european hydrogen and fuel cell technology platform. established in the year 2004, this industry-led technology platform has provided the strategic direction which the sector needs in order to bring these technologies to the point of commercial readiness. annex 4 to the council decision on specific programme cooperation lists a hydrogen and fuel cells initiative as one of the possible joint technology initiatives that may be established either on the basis of article 171 of the treaty — this may include the creation of joint undertakings — or on the basis of a modification of the specific programme in accordance with article 166 of the treaty. the jti, envisaged as a long term public-private partnership, will define and execute a target-oriented european programme of industrial research, technological development and demonstration designed to deliver robust hydrogen and fuel cell technologies developed to the point of commercial take-off. it is expected that one of the jti targets will be to supply 10 to 20% of the hydrogen demand for energy applications with carbon-lean or carbon-free production technologies by 2015. the precise scope and targets will be defined once this joint technology initiative is adopted. in the meantime, the first calls for proposals for fp7 were launched on 22 december and the expiry date is the end of april. the energy theme includes a number of topics related to innovative materials for specific hydrogen production pathways. i have taken longer than i intended, but i wanted to give you a broad outline of the programmes or initiatives which are in place.
thank you for such a detailed and informative answer. i'm really happy that we're not so far behind china, and we're also working on this. i wanted to ask you: are these advances limited, are there not many hydrogen-powered vehicles on the streets; are they sometimes not affected by the automotive industry and the oil-producing countries; are they sometimes not pressing and not limiting the research on hydrogen use?
member of the commission. no, this is not at all the case. on the contrary, europe is one of the world leaders in hydrogen technology. by placing more emphasis on the european technology platform, which is dealing with this question, we now have a strategic and coherent approach on how to proceed. all countries around the world are still dealing with major questions and this means putting current discoveries on the market, which would lead to a true hydrogen economy. however, i think we can be very proud of what we have achieved in the past and of how we are handling the issue at present. in addition, emphasising the potential joint technology initiative is exactly the right means to put us on the map and to keep us there.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his very interesting and optimistic response to what has been done and what is planned to be done. so i would like to ask you a futuristic question: when do you think a hydrogen-powered car will be able to compete with a gasoline or a diesel-powered car and sell for the same price? and finally, when will the european commission, the european council, the european parliament be able to buy hydrogen cars and put them in our garages to show others by example that the european union is really leading the way?
member of the commission. the objectives in the seventh framework programme remain exactly the same as the objectives in the previous programme, although the tools have been slightly modified. the work programmes will encourage women’s participation in research and highlight the relevance of gender in specific topics. large projects will have the possibility and will be encouraged to include gender equality actions in their projects, and these will be reimbursable actions, just like other activities in the projects. however, i would like to repeat that we should and we will give a positive example, but we are all aware that we cannot solve the problem without looking beyond the research portfolio. we are now facing difficulties that are part of a broader picture of reality in a society resulting in this unfavourable and unfair situation in which we are not using all of our knowledge potential. that is why i believe that the debate we will be having and which will specifically focus also on this issue is so crucially important. concerning how we are trying to be practical, i can give you an example of how we address the question of evaluation panels, in which we have a target for 40% participation by women. article 17 of the rules of participation in the seventh framework programme specifies that in the selection of independent experts, we should ensure reasonable gender balance. women’s participation in evaluation panels has increased since the commission set that target in 1999. it went up from 22% in 1999 to 30% in 2005. unfortunately, i still do not have the figure for 2006. if we compare this with the proportion of women in our expert database, which is only 25%, that will give you a clear sign that we are trying to do our best. on top of that, the commission encourages female experts to register on our database. the european platform of women scientists created at the end of 2005 will help us in this respect. those are the things we intend to do.
i wanted to look at this in a broader way, not just women in science, but men as well. europe is losing the competition to the united states. more and more scientists (both men and women) are moving to these states because they are offered better working conditions and better pay. what are we going to do to keep the scientists in europe and to bring them to us?
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam deputy, this is a very important question, but i cannot answer it because the commission does not give funds to individual companies. that's a question for the banks. how do banks react to people who come to them with a good idea, a good education, an entrepreneurial talent? do they recognize this talent, do they recognize the courage to want to do something, and do they encourage it, or do they act bureaucratically? i think that the european financial institutions are well advised to take into account what you have said, namely the ability of a person who wants to start a business to take into account his talent, his knowledge and his skill in the assessment of creditworthiness. we can only encourage the banks to do so. we can't force them to do that.
we have seen data, estimates, that only 10 percent of labour market participants can be entrepreneurs, start their own businesses and be employers. the remaining 90% have the skills to be hired. do you think that all the actions you are implementing in the programme will be able to increase the number of active people in our society?
for the alde group i would like to thank the main and shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation in preparing the amendments, which has made us good friends as well. and that is perhaps one of the most beautiful aspects of our work in parliament. the amendments to the regulation that we are considering today, which came into force in 2002, are a logical step which will allow us to evaluate and extend the practice of applying the regulation. the proposed amendments extend the competence of the european aviation safety agency (easa) and improve its management, budgetary and other procedures. the establishment of uniform standards for aviation safety and the supervision of their implementation shall be given high priority. aviation safety is a priority for all of us. the increasing intensity of air traffic requires a single strong authority so that discrepancies or contradictions between national aviation authorities do not have a negative impact on safety. many of the amendments are therefore proposed with the single overriding objective of giving easa more practical powers to carry out its tasks. i would point out that in developing the regulation we have not only sought to tighten and centralize but to simplify the standards in those areas where changed practical circumstances make this possible. one such area is the use of light amateur aviation. the proposals set out to simplify the standards and rules for the issuing of private pilot licences for this type of activity by allowing authorised bodies such as pilot federations to issue 'temporary pilot licences for light aircraft'. the amendments also concern the protection of information sources, which is important for obtaining operational information on infringements of the regulation. the comments to the regulation also aim to improve the rules for the recruitment of easa experts in order to maintain the ability to attract more experienced professionals in the future, to create the necessary internal training conditions. in conclusion, i would like to invite my colleagues to support these timely and much needed amendments.
mr president, we can improve paragraph 2 by adding only a few words. it concerns our ‘call on all states not part of the npt to accede to that treaty’. that is regular and routine. however, we could call on them first to ‘comply voluntarily with’, and then to accede to, the treaty, thus introducing fresh encouragement.
i would like to support the rapporteur, mr pack, and remind him that bosnia and herzegovina is still torn by ethnic and other conflicts, and that the rhetoric of the parties is pushing the country into a nationalist impasse. the european union's magnetism is pulling the country out of the conflict. it is this force that accelerates reforms, strengthens democracy, human rights, and at the same time improves the lives of citizens. it must be made clear that the prospect of eu membership would be shattered if the country were to drift towards fragmentation and nationalism. in sarajevo and mostar, i saw the important role played by the eu peacekeeping force in the country. but it is not these forces, but the citizens themselves who must create a common administration and police, good laws. only the young can build a strong, united nation. schools and universities where bosniaks, serbs and croats study together should become the cradle of reconciliation between ethnic communities. you have to be very careful about touching recent history that's been marked with blood. but the truth must be told without distortion or emotion. by developing regional cooperation, bosnia and herzegovina can demonstrate the european nature of its foreign policy. it is necessary to settle conflicts and ratify the agreements on the demarcation of borders. i would urge that visa facilitation be agreed as soon as possible. better access to the european union would provide examples of sectarianism and promote internal harmony. negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement, learning from the experience of the new eu member states should help bosnia and herzegovina to catch the wind in europe's sails. it would be a confirmation of the european union's magnetism, which is able to overcome nationalism and hatred and to create a culture of coexistence and prosperity among peoples.
the president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed the debate with interest. this is a serious matter. the subject is: how can we maintain a strong aerospace industry in europe? the principle must be that the economy makes the economy and politics makes the politics, and this distinction is important if we are to do justice to our subject. here, various speakers pointed out that airbus is doing well at the moment, but that there are problems to be overcome. that's right, you're right. but we must also look to the future. the united states of america has long underestimated europe in aircraft manufacture. from her point of view, it was revenge. we've been losing a competitive edge here for a long time. we in europe must be careful not to underestimate asia and that the same thing happens to us. this means that, at a time when the european aerospace industry still has a certain strength, an innovative and financial strength, it must also develop in such a way that it remains competitive and that it can also meet future challenges and also cope with the current problems arising from the delay in the delivery of the a380, the development delay of the a350 and the weakness of the dollar. the decision of what is right and what is wrong must be made by the company. i would never suggest, madam president, that politicians should dictate how long the development time for an aircraft should be. that would be absurd. that's for the company to decide. this is a technological question and a business decision, but it is absolutely not a political question. i would never tell a company what it should or should not offer on the market. but it is clear that if you do not assess the market correctly, if you do not check it constantly, then a company will be in trouble. since many of the employees have spoken, i would like to point out that the company has explained to us that it wants to do what it wants to do in terms of reducing weight in a socially compatible way, that it does not plan direct redundancies and that this process will take several years. i would add that it is in the interest of airbus to have intensive discussions with its highly qualified staff about the necessary restructuring. the company can only win if it sees the project as a joint project between management and employees and seeks and continues this dialogue.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission shares the concern expressed here that the future of the european aerospace industry cannot be helped by the loss of jobs and skills and experience in the largest company in this sector. we have already said that the commission will use the instruments at our disposal at european level to help those affected to cope with the consequences of structural change. it is absolutely true what has been said here: the problems facing this company have nothing whatsoever to do with the qualifications of the employees. this is beyond doubt. in addition to the measures we can take - and will take if necessary - we are now taking a very decisive step towards creating a level playing field and a fair competition for the european aviation industry. the commission will be filing a written complaint against the united states with the world trade organization on 22 march to take action against the excessive subsidies to boeing by the american state, which amount to tens of billions. this is also an important sign that we want to secure the future of the european aerospace industry.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in line with the mandate given by the council at its june 2006 meeting, the german presidency will present a report in the first half of 2007. the european council had therefore asked that this report should assess the state of play of the discussions on the constitutional treaty and indicate possible future developments. as part of the preparation of this report, the presidency held initial talks with representatives of all the member states. in the next few weeks, there will be further contacts at various levels. as these efforts are still ongoing, the presidency is not at present in a position to indicate what points the report may contain, and does not wish to prejudge it in any way.
i thank the council representative for his reply, but i am not satisfied with it because it is one of germany's priorities. i asked very specific questions and would like the council representative to comment on the document being drawn up today (at least on the most important, the essential points).
the president of the council. i am not going to go into that. i can only answer by referring to the procedure. we have been asked to draw up such a report on the basis of intensive consultation with all member states. this process is not yet complete. the report will be presented to the summit in june and the final work on this report will not be possible until june of this year. it would be a great handicap to the chances of really getting ahead if i were to reveal here any details of our ideas which we can put into the report. i can only say that we are in the process of consultation, we will continue it until june, and then we will present a comprehensive report. the report will of course also reveal what the possible next steps are. but that is a matter for the european council to decide.
the president of the council. we are relying on a very broad consensus in this consultation process and we accept all the proposals and reports that we receive from individual countries. the question is what of it will be included in our overall report, but we cannot decide that until we have the full picture.
at the last meeting of the council, poland expressed dissatisfaction with the way the decision was taken, considering that it was detrimental to polish interests. there are also some parties who are not satisfied with the way in which the commissioners are appointed and with the number of commissioners. can this be taken into account and will it affect the further amendment, revision of the constitution?
the president of the council. of course we prefer to work in a framework of satisfied members, but this point i have to answer concerns the question of consultations and the report. we have received a unanimous mandate, a mandate in which poland has also participated, as far as i know. there are no problems with the mandate here, nor any disagreements. we hope that on the basis of this report, which we have to submit, we will meet in the circle of all 27 members and discuss the next steps which will then lead to an acceptable constitutional process.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the proposal for a framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia is one of the priorities of the german presidency in the field of justice and home affairs. the article 36 committee discussed this instrument in january 2007 on the basis of a german compromise proposal. the german compromise proposal is largely based on the 2005 luxembourg compromise proposal, which could provide a good basis for the vast majority of the delegation to reach agreement on the framework decision. moreover, this topic was raised during the lunch on the sidelines of the council meeting of 15 february 2007 in brussels. the presidency intends to prepare a revised text on the basis of these discussions and to present it to the council at its meeting on 19 april 2007.
the president of the council. i can only repeat that the concrete step we intend to take on 19 april, namely the presentation of a revised text of the framework decision, is an important step forward. the text of this framework decision will then indicate the respective tasks for the countries in terms of strengthening the fight against racism and xenophobia.
the president of the council. mr president, i think you are right. it is not possible to deny that there is a difficult contradiction between these two legal goods. in this respect, the framework decision will leave a wide margin of manoeuvre for each member state to take its concrete decisions in accordance with the legal culture in each country. for example, the framework decision will not make any statements concerning individual historical events, the denial of which would be punishable. this is a matter for each country to decide for itself. the framework decision must, however, clearly state that public approval, denial or downplaying of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity should be punishable. the details and reasons for such a crime, and what each country may consider to be necessary, will certainly remain a matter for the member states and cannot be dealt with in detail in this framework decision.
i would still like to understand what will be achieved during the german presidency? no agreement was reached during the luxembourg presidency. i understand that there will be a minimum harmonisation of the laws on criminal liability for the dissemination of racist and xenophobic information or something else?
the president of the council. i have already said that we are at the moment in the process of taking stock, so i will simply add your suggestion as a supplement to the various examples we are collecting and thank you very much.
the president of the council. the council has not yet received the commission's report on the transposition into national law of framework decision 2003/568/jha on combating corruption in the private sector. the council has therefore not yet examined whether the member states have complied with the provisions of this framework decision. however, the council has received information on the transposition into uk law of the 2003 framework decision on bribery in the private sector. in accordance with article 9 of the framework decision, the council is to review the extent to which member states have adopted legislation implementing that framework decision. the council, on the other hand, is not obliged to check the way in which procedures are carried out in the member states. it is not the council's role to comment on the obligations of the member states under the oecd convention referred to by the honourable member.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. we must be very careful about the council's rights here. as far as we are aware, the bae systems case you mentioned concerns the possible bribery of foreign officials. but that is precisely the area that is not regulated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat corruption in the private sector, but not by public officials, and certainly not by foreign officials. the council is not therefore required to act here.
i would like to ask you, mr minister, whether the presidency thinks that it might be appropriate to discuss with the european commission new measures to strengthen the fight against corruption. we know that the corruption index varies widely between eu countries, and it would be good if we could work together to get to a lower level.
the president of the council. mr posselt, you can at least be assured that we will pursue an absolutely fair approach to croatia. of course, you are right that if you look at the framework conditions for the negotiations with turkey, for example, the instrument of the negotiations has changed over time, and if you think of the benchmarks that have been introduced, then the framework and the instruments have indeed evolved. this is not a matter which concerns croatia specifically, but it is clear that this will apply to all future accession negotiations, including those with the western balkan countries, which also hope that these negotiations will be opened at some point. so it is not the lex croatia that is being used here, but the further development of the instruments in the context of the whole of european enlargement. as for your request for forecasts, i have to say that forecasts are difficult. i can only say in general terms that we have the impression that croatia is a very conscientious and very committed partner in these negotiations and that we are trying to move the negotiations forward quickly, without prejudice to other political frameworks or timeframes. i have already mentioned the state of the negotiations, which is very considerable. when you consider that croatia applied in 2003, got candidate status in 2004, and that negotiations have been ongoing since last october, this is an astonishingly fast progress, even compared to the last negotiation process with the 12 countries that have now joined the eu. we believe that both sides are interested in further rapid progress here.
the president of the council. mr president, you know that there is a specific political background to this temporary suspension of the negotiations on certain chapters. it is up to the turkish republic to solve this problem so that we can then return to normalcy. but one thing is certain: we know that the whole negotiating strategy with turkey is governed by different rules than in the previous negotiations - including those which are now running in parallel - in that each time a consensus decision is needed to open or close a chapter. the october 2005 decision gives all member states the opportunity to play a particularly strong role of their own and also a controlling role in the negotiations. this was also the basis for the consensus to open negotiations in the first place. the turkish side is aware of this and has agreed to this approach and procedure. in this respect, it cannot be said that there is a negative treatment here, but that otherwise consensus could not be reached at all. both sides have agreed to this.
regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are part of european policy. you mentioned that there are some difficulties in relations with other states, for example border disputes. in your opinion, is it more the fault of croatia or of neighbouring countries that these border treaties have not yet been signed?
today we have the commission's green paper on european trade defence measures in a changing world economy. the communication concerns trade defence measures which do not affect the production concerned. the question of the balance between the community interest and the interests of the producers, importers, consumers and even developing countries raised is also raised. the figures provided show that the us, india, in protecting their markets, initiated more investigations for safeguard measures than the eu. the eu is struggling to implement the lisbon strategy to create new jobs, and there is a catastrophic shortage of engineers and scientists who can develop new competitive technologies. in the current situation, there is no way to relax the safeguard measures, as this would undermine the production still existing in the eu, especially small and medium-sized businesses, especially in the new member states. in addition, i would encourage the commission to speed up its anti-dumping investigations, as the delay has already ruined the lithuanian telescope manufacturer ekrana.
the mdgs are most often a two-way process: one between donors and recipients. the eu applies requirements to the granting of assistance, the priority requirement of which is good governance. the european commission has always taken a cautious approach to the role of local authorities in development policy, in order to maintain good diplomatic relations with third countries and to pay the funds allocated to countries as quickly as possible, since consultation with local authorities is time-consuming and, in my opinion, difficult to implement. the introduction of decentralised cooperation in developing countries, as defined by the lomé convention, offers the possibility of addressing development assistance through cooperation not only between states but also involving local authorities. this gives the beneficiary countries the opportunity to use the aid to address specific population problems. however, i believe that local authorities should also be more involved in the governance of their own country, by actively and regularly cooperating with the central government. in reality, no economic and social development of the state is conceivable without a mutual link between local and central government. the cotonou agreement provided for local authorities to be invited to participate in the development policy, which means that compliance with this agreement is to be required from the central government and that non-compliance with the rules is to be decided on the granting of aid. i do not think that the european commission should be dealing with the specific problems of local government in third countries. she doesn't have the capacity. its task is to control the use of the aid. the appropriateness of establishing a global democracy monitoring centre at the local level and decentralisation is called into question by the very different countries, their governance structures, cultures and customs. they must choose the way in which they cooperate at the level of government.
first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues, mr tunne kelam, mr vytautas landsbergis and mr charles tanoki, for taking the initiative to hear the commission's statement today and also to adopt the resolution on galina kozlova. this resolution is another european parliament document on human rights violations in russia, which is linked to the eu by a current partnership and cooperation agreement and a strategic partnership that appears to be based not on shared values but on pragmatism, economic and other benefits. as a member of the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights, one format of eu-russia cooperation is of particular importance to me, namely the ongoing eu-russia consultations on human rights, minorities and fundamental freedoms. in this context, the brutal attack on galina kozlova, the editor of the literary magazine ontsoko, the wife of vladimir kozlov, the chairman of the mari council, which already had precedents in the republic of maria, not only deserves our attention and appreciation, but also forces us to return once again to the human rights situation in russia in general. the latest figures put russia in second place in the world (after iraq) in terms of the dangers to journalists, and i therefore fully support the provisions of our resolution in which the european parliament calls on the russian federal and local authorities to fulfil their obligations under international law not only to guarantee freedom of the press but also to implement the provisions of the legislation relating to the preservation and promotion of minority languages and cultures. i believe that the commission could raise the issue of the russian minority in the eu through the ongoing eu-russia dialogue on human rights and the forthcoming eu-russia summit.
mr president, when i spoke during the discussion on the galina kozlova case, i expressed my gratitude to our colleagues from the ppe-de group mr kelam, mr landsbergis and mr tannock for initiating that resolution. i was informed later that the original initiative came from our estonian colleague mr savi from the alde group. i should therefore like to express my respect and gratitude to him.
for the alde group i would say that probably in many countries, there is a saying that you have to prepare for winter by preparing for summer. we have tried to remind the european commission and the council of this old truth in this matter. because until now, there was always information that we were forming working groups and discussing this issue. while consolidation certainly has its positive aspects, systemic risks in the market are increasing significantly. financial groups are active in all countries of the european union and very often have a high degree of dependence on their activities and influence. when we talk about supervisory restructuring, first of all we have to ask ourselves what i usually ask all supervisory authorities in europe: if a subsidiary operates in a certain country and its bad performance causes losses to the economy of that country, who will pay? who will answer? what country's laws will govern us? the next question. if a crisis occurs in that subsidiary, how will it be handled? at national level or at financial group level? unfortunately, these simple questions remain unanswered. i am very pleased with the information that the council and commission have given us on the work that is being done, but i would like to stress once again that when new, riskier products appear on the market, we need to speed up all the processes and concentrate on solving the main issues, rather than being silent, because the talk of various coordinations and the like is good until the crisis occurs. and the starting point for our decisions about improving care should be the response to a crisis.
via baltica is a project of major importance for connecting the entire transport system of the baltic, northern and central european countries with the european union. the european commission has brought a complaint against poland before the court of justice of the european union over the construction of the via baltica augustavo bypass, which was begun before poland's accession to the eu, on the grounds that it violates the environmental requirements of the rospud valley, through which the viaduct is designed. the project is expected to provide up to 4% of the project value for environmental damage compensation, animal transfers and reforestation. the commission does not propose any alternative to the bypass and does not explicitly intend to compensate for the losses. however, environmental problems are not avoided by the northern gas corridor, which is planned to run through the natura 2000 site, and may have unforeseen environmental consequences. the european commission is not concerned about the people of augusta who suffer from pollution. will the european union ever stop applying double standards to europe's powerful and their strategic partner russia?
mr president i would like to draw you attention to the agreement on the new eu external assistance instruments, and in particular the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, which grants parliament increased scrutiny over the implementation of community assistance. parliament is prepared to play an active role in the implementation of the eu external assistance instruments, though the commission is not ready for open and timely cooperation with parliament. parliament is only involved in the process of drafting documents – which is to say strategy papers, action plans, and national indicative programmes – just before their adoption, when there is almost no possibility to change or express an opinion concerning the matter. therefore, parliament remains only a passive observer to the implementation of the enpi. in this respect, i think we should call on the commission to communicate with parliament, and to involve parliament in a full and timely manner in the drafting, implementing and monitoring of the european neighbourhood policy, and enpi in particular.
the current administration in washington is in a hurry to put in place a missile shield. it would also cover part of the european union if the missiles and radars were deployed in the czech republic and poland. all of this would cost $58 billion. this money, if used differently, could save millions of starving people and transform nations that face unpredictable threats. european states and societies are deeply concerned about such plans, which could lead to a new arms race and a threat to the entire region. lithuania is also among them, but the public debate on this topic in the new countries has not yet taken off. the plans of washington should be discussed openly and in principle by nato and eu countries, including russia. the unilateral, unforeseen policies of risks and consequences have repeatedly created situations from which it is difficult to escape. star wars came out of the cold war. to do so now would be to acknowledge that the world is still divided into impassable camps, that we are once again looking for solutions based on force and weapons.
in the context of eu enlargement, the discriminatory conditions for the implementation of the common agricultural policy with the 10 new member states were agreed in 2004. the new members will be subject to a transitional period of nine years. in the first years, the aid amounted to only 25% of the old state aid. this leads to unequal conditions of competition between the old and new member states on the agricultural products market. the main emphasis of the report is that the new states have not had a negative impact on the agricultural products market of the old states. what about the impact on the new states? only poland is mentioned, whose problems the commission avoids addressing. lithuania has lost its traditional flax farm to the cap. it had to reduce its support for flax growers by one and a half times. flax crops have been cut in half. the old states were in a favourable position to take advantage of the market for the products of the new states. i think that the report does not reflect the real situation, and that is why i voted against the cap in the new member states.
the nord stream builders planned to start construction of the pipeline in 2008, have not explored the baltic seabed and do not know what is in the ammunition dump. however, it is now envisaged that i would prefer to build the pipeline closer to the estonian coast, in the estonian economic zone. moreover, the kremlin is preparing to authorize gazprom to create its own, well-armed army, which, together with the baltic fleet, will protect the baltic seabed gas pipeline to germany. according to media sources, such military formations will have the right to search persons and vehicles, as well as to use weapons to protect objects and territories. we see russia's intentions not only to strengthen its naval forces in the baltic sea, but also to increase russian intelligence capabilities in the vicinity of the pipeline. is russia coordinating with germany? are there any new ones from 1939? will we, as democratic countries of the european union, allow such self-government?
i would like to stress the importance of this directive being applied not only to euro area countries but also to countries which do not yet use the euro. because this will modernise the financial markets in those countries. i'd like to thank the reporter for his excellent work. many problems have been raised in this context, which relate to the implementation of this directive. i would also like to say that, as the rapporteur has said, this document is very technical. we still have a few things to clarify and the most important is the supervision of the implementation of this payments directive by the large banking and financial groups. who will be responsible? although the directive appears to define this, there are still many uncertainties. another important issue to be addressed is the supervision of non-bank financial institutions, which is a necessary and welcome development. however, separation can sometimes be a highlight of that supervision and cost more than the operation itself in small countries.
the importance of cohesion policy and its results in shaping and deepening the integration of the economies of the member states of the european union and in improving the well-being of people is undeniable. however, the report under discussion today presents the latest enlargement and the future accession of the eu as a cause of disaster for the eu as a whole. the requirement to assess the impact of the accession of bulgaria and romania on cohesion policy after their accession to the eu is contrary to the principle of solidarity as stated in the communication. the eu is not only a cohesion policy but also a common agricultural policy with its impact on economic and social well-being. its reform, the reform of the eu budget, will also determine the implementation of the common foreign and security policy and the allocation of funds for cohesion. the communication proposes to introduce new cohesion criteria for the candidate countries. however, the countries are already negotiating membership under the well-known copenhagen criteria. ladies and gentlemen, the report on cohesion policy looks at cohesion separately from other eu policies, tends to be anti-development, protects the rich eu countries.
i would call the situation a paradox. this kind of thing shouldn't be allowed between partners. in lithuania, because of low starch quotas, factories are shut down, people are left without work. the quota allocated to lithuania is ten times less than the needs of lithuania itself. the starch has to be imported and the lithuanian production units are standing still. at the same time, there are countries for which the starch quotas are too high and they are not using them. is this a normal phenomenon in the single internal market? based on the reference period, the 1200 tonnes of starch production quota allocated to lithuania allows companies to operate at only 9% of capacity, and therefore an increase in the production quota was requested from the eu institutions, which would allow economically justified operations of companies, while continuing the potato-growing traditions in lithuania. the reply was negative. the increase in quotas for lithuania and poland would not in any way harm the other member states and would be of great importance to the lithuanian economy. it is the only way to show solidarity and togetherness.
i would like to support the provisions on agencies set out by mr herczog and to emphasise that, compared with last year, there is clearly a greater degree of financial discipline in this area. but agencies are growing like mushrooms after the rain. if in 1990 we had 3 agencies, now we have 23 with the enforcement agencies. clearly, there is no strategy for their establishment. in may last year, we were invited by the commission to become familiar with the activities of the advanced energy executive agency. and here is a good example of how it works: at the end of the year, the commission came up with a proposal to reorganise the agency. obviously, we would like to pay attention to this problem in general: how many agencies are needed and are they needed? now this process is a mess. individual commissioners come to the individual committees of parliament responsible for a particular area, they go to the committee on budgets. and the whole process of setting up agencies and their need is difficult to assess, although there seems to be quite a lot of procedural stuff defined. i therefore believe that our committee on budgetary control, together with the whole of parliament, should support the initiatives and encourage the speedy preparation of an interinstitutional agreement on the activities of the european agencies and their working procedures and establishment.
when lithuania joined the european union, it was allocated a starch quota that allowed starch-producing enterprises to operate at only 9,32% of capacity. two years ago, the european union's agriculture and fisheries council agreed that the potato starch quota would be reviewed after two marketing years. the consumption of starch in lithuania is increasing. it's now 10 times the production quota. given that, according to the commission, the european union's production quota for starch was under 5% in january 2007, an increase of the quota for lithuania to 10 000 tonnes would not even constitute 0,5% of the eu production quota for starch. lithuania therefore requests an increase of its production quota to 10 000 tonnes. this is not only necessary for domestic consumption but will also create the conditions for renewing potato starch production capacity, increasing its utilisation and ensuring income for starch potato growers. it is unfair to grant preferences to other countries at the expense of the capacity of lithuanian starch producers and agricultural producers.
the first cases of hiv infection were recorded 25 years ago. the disease has spread worldwide. the exact number of patients is unknown. treatment is expensive and not available to all, especially in the new member states. the report highlights the link between hiv/aids and migration processes. migration flows, especially from countries with high hiv/aids prevalence and from eastern countries, about which we have very little information, threaten to further increase the spread of hiv/aids. studies show that migrants are becoming the largest group at risk of hiv/aids both in the european union and its neighbours. in moscow, 10 percent of the 12,000 migrants tested for hiv/aids and other communicable diseases. i support the proposal to use the neighbourhood policy to provide assistance for the prevention and treatment of hiv/aids in vulnerable groups, especially migrants. it is also necessary to pay more attention to this problem.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. under current community legislation, the commission has a say in decisions taken by companies and intervenes in negotiations between management and labour only if there is an infringement of community law. the european union can nevertheless contribute to preparing for and managing change and restructuring responsibly, thanks to its structural funds and, in particular, the european social fund. the commission has also established a political dialogue within the framework of the restructuring forum with the aim of developing the exchange of experience and best practices between the main actors. the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations. the union also has a legal framework for staff information and consultation. i would therefore point out that there are various measures relating to the authorisation and management of restructuring and, in particular, the directives on collective redundancies, on the transfer of companies, on european works councils and on the directive establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees. compliance with community legislation on information and consultation of employees should be ensured. however, i would stress that it is primarily the member states' task to ensure that community legislation is implemented. moreover, the commission fully respects the principle of the autonomy of the social partners and emphasises the essential role of social dialogue in addressing issues relating to the organisation of work and industrial relations. in this context, european works councils play an important role in promoting social dialogue at transnational and societal level. in 2003, the social partners adopted at european level the reference principles for managing change and its social consequences. the commission supports the social partners in the dissemination and implementation of these principles throughout the european union. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. mr. deputy, i noted your question. of course, i don't have the information at this time, but i'll have my service department get it in a reasonable time and in a reasonable structure. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. of course, the commission can initiate legislation within the powers at its disposal, and it does so in any event. i can mention the debate on optical radiation, which has been successfully concluded, because it is a typical example of occupational safety and health for the benefit of workers. so are some other directives that are either now being discussed or have been discussed. in any case, i believe that we must make very active use of the field which offers the possibility of social legislation.
the rise of corporations is often seen as a consequence of globalisation. and that's the way it should be. we, the new countries, were told that we didn't understand that we had to move our textile factories to third countries and we wouldn't have any problems. my question is to look at the bigger picture. the earth is round. when we all rise up, someone has to rise up with us. how do we think? should we not have a common industrial policy? what branches should we invest in so we don't have to move?
member of the commission. as i said in my original answer, i am an air traveller myself, so i often have mixed feelings, but it does not change the whole picture. first of all: why is it necessary to have secret regulations? the rules on aviation security, including those adopted in regulation (ec) no 1546/2006, are not placed in the public domain because potential terrorists could use the information for their purposes. the european commission aviation security legislation is classified as ‘eu restricted’ in line with commission decision 2001/844/ec, ecsc, euratom. how are our airports and airlines supposed to apply regulations – which are directly applicable rules – that are secret? the regulations on aviation security are addressed to the appropriate authority of each member state. they have an obligation under article 81 of framework regulation (ec) no 2320/2002 to communicate the information to interested parties on a need-to-know basis in accordance with applicable national rules for the dissemination of sensitive information. thus airport security staff will get clear instructions on their obligations, not from the official journal of the european union, but from the appropriate national authority.
member of the commission. yes, i do think that the fact that there has been no reported terrorist attempt is a success in itself, because, if you cannot take more liquid than 100 ml – which, according to the experts, is not sufficient to create explosive materials – then terrorists are possibly not trying to violate this regulation. so that could explain why no terrorist attempt has been reported. as far as complaints are concerned, i can confirm this because many times at the airport i have listened to debates and quarrels between security officials and passengers, but i have the feeling and the experience that the situation has become more relaxed and now goes more smoothly than it did at the very beginning of the new regulations.
we are all experts on the situation at european airports. but some airports in the european union have the same security procedures, in a polite, quick, convenient way, and others - the top echelons - treat everyone as a potential terrorist. perhaps the european commission could draw up rules, recommendations, using the best examples of how to serve passengers in a civil and safe manner.
member of the commission. if i understood you correctly, your proposal or idea would refer not only to alcoholic beverages but to all excise duty. but even if you did not mean that, if we did decide to abolish the minimum rate on alcoholic beverages, that would have an impact on the excise duty on energy and tobacco products. i do not think it could be a solution, because if there were no minimum rate that would inspire some member states to opt for very low or no excise duty at all. that in turn would generate more smuggling and more cross-border shopping, which would certainly result in further distortion in the internal market. i understand the logic of your thinking, but i do not think that it would solve the problem. on the contrary, it would create further distortions in the internal market.
i don't think that low taxes or no taxes would increase smuggling. high excise duties are what allows smuggling to flow in from eastern countries where excise duties are not in place and alcohol is cheap. if we talk in a broad sense about excise duties on fuel and other products, reducing the excise duty on fuel would actually boost the economy, its growth, its competitiveness. my question is broader, does it not seem that when we talk about excise duty on alcohol, we should think about how to educate the public so that they use this product as little as possible, because now there is a particularly high consumption of alcohol by young people.
the resolution before us today is short but substantive: we support the conclusion of a multilateral agreement on the establishment of a european common aviation area (eea). the agreement, which was negotiated by the commission a year ago with the balkan countries and iceland and norway, is important in that it considerably extends the application of european community aviation rules to these partner countries. this is of great importance both for these countries, which are seeking to gradually align their aviation standards with those of europe, and for europe, as european standards will gradually be transferred to this geographical area, in particular in the field of aviation safety, which would make the travel of our citizens safer. these trips are increasing as the balkans move closer to the european union. the complexity of international civil aviation is such that the choice of an asymmetrical nature of the agreements, taking into account the specificities of each country with which the protocol is signed and the level of implementation of the standards, is justified. this should encourage faster entry into force of the rules, not discourage the more advanced countries and encourage the least advanced.
the president of the council. first of all, the protection of the external borders is of course the responsibility of the member state concerned. however, in special situations, frontex can be used. that is why this institution was created. this means that there may be cases where frontex does not have to act because it can only be done by the member state concerned. but of course it is intended to convey the european union's solidarity in certain situations, such as illegal immigration - that is what this european initiative was about. but it can't be a permanent assignment. frontex should really only be involved in certain cases.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i cannot give you any specific figures at the moment. we have now set up this agency, and we must now see what requirements are to be imposed on this body, what tasks the member states can assume and what tasks can be ensured by frontex. but that remains open in the relevant discussions. in any case, if i have understood the honourable member correctly, we must also send a signal that we have not only created a pseudo-institution here, but that the citizens should also realise: the european union has recognised the need to intervene effectively with an agency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the president of the council. no proposal to improve the institutional infrastructure of the european network of contact points is currently under consideration. the meetings held within the framework of this network are currently being prepared in cooperation with the presidency and the general secretariat of the council. the council also has no proposal to establish a secretariat for the network within eurojust. if such an initiative is put forward, the council will discuss it. the presidency is pleased to inform you, madam president, that the next meeting of the european network of contact points for persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes will take place on 7 and 8 may. in accordance with the practice of the past, the results of this meeting will be forwarded to the committee for further discussion in accordance with rule 36. the 2003 council decision provides that the creation of specialised units for war crimes is a matter for the member states. all member states have already designated contact points for the investigation of genocide, war crimes or crimes against humanity.
the president of the council. firstly, as i have already said, it is important that parliament is informed of this meeting in accordance with rule 36. in the end, i cannot tell you today what conclusions will be drawn from this and how they will be involved in the processes. but that is what we will see when this first meeting takes place on 7 may.
the president of the council. i would like to say on this point that the commission has the exclusive right of initiative in the field of public health. the council also does not currently have a legislative proposal on diabetes. it should be noted that such a proposal would fall under the codecision procedure under article 152 (4) in conjunction with article 251 of the ec treaty. i would also like to refer to the council's reply to the written question of 2006.
the president of the council. you have rightly mentioned the impact of type 1 diabetes, particularly in children. however, i would like to point out - please do not misunderstand me - that this is primarily a task for the member states. but it is important that research is done and that knowledge is gained and that the results are then shared at european level, even though the responsibility for health is with the member states. it is the well-being and future of children that is at stake, and that is the right way to share the results in a timely and effective manner.
the president of the council. i can agree with you, madam president, that we must of course look for the causes, and that is where research is needed. as you have mentioned, the seventh framework programme for research makes it possible to study this disease in depth and to carry out appropriate research. the initiatives are, of course, first of all the responsibility of the member states, but this instrument, which is certainly necessary, can be used to launch initiatives in the seventh research programme.
the president of the council. the commission noted in its spring 2007 report that the availability of affordable childcare is a problem in some member states, making it difficult to reconcile work and family life. the joint employment report 2006-2007 explicitly notes that some member states have set national targets for childcare. this effort should be recognized. at the same time, however, it is important to monitor further developments in the member states in order to ensure that the commitments under the barcelona process are respected.
the president of the council. we had a debate a few weeks ago on the alliance for families and the objectives we set ourselves in barcelona. in this debate i proposed on behalf of the presidency that a report on the implementation of these objectives in each member state should be presented next year! we have also now drawn up a list of criteria to be used in the preparation of this report in 2008. that is an important point. i am also pleased that in recent weeks, at various conferences - including the alliance for families debate - childcare has played a key role. i am a german, as you know, and i am familiar with the debate that is currently taking place in our country. but we also found that this is not just a german problem. so what can we do? in the spirit of best practice, the experience and results with a view to achieving these objectives in the coming year should be presented in the report referred to above. we'll get you the information you need.
minister! you mentioned germany. i would like to know what the situation is with childcare in the new and old länder. i think that the eu has a problem with the fact that the situation of childcare in the new eu countries is particularly bad. how do you assess this problem?
the president of the council. this is still being discussed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. we are continuing to have an intensive dialogue with the european parliament on the important question of how we can protect children and young people from certain products.
the president of the council. firstly, it is not a question of distinguishing between private and public television channels, but of a general television directive at european level. i also believe that a number of television stations have made a commitment to themselves to ensure that no one is incited to hatred or any other kind of hate by their programmes.
our broadcasters are filled with productions from the united states. it is from this country that we see a flood of violence, aggressive programs and movies that have a very bad influence on young people and children. we see events from the life of the united states itself: massacres in schools, at universities. can we have any influence to restrict the import and exhibition of this particular production in europe?
the president of the council. i'll start with the last point, because i know it's very controversial. it would be best if there could be a settlement between the two countries concerned, but there is no result yet on which to agree. the date, if i understood you correctly, was the slovenian presidency. what i have just said shows that although the european council has given the signal to grant this country the status of a candidate country, we are still not negotiating accession, hoping to make further progress after this debate. i do not think it is appropriate to set a date at this point. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. as regards the ohrid agreement, mr posselt, i cannot give you an exact assessment of the situation at the moment, but i would like to give you the answer.
the president of the council. at the thessaloniki summit, the european union unanimously expressed the need to open the prospect of accession to the western balkan countries in the light of the developments in the past. this decision was made with the idea of bringing stability to the region. all the things you have just mentioned in connection with linguistic diversity will not have been taken into account right from the start. but it is important that we contribute to stability in this region, and that is why the problem you have mentioned is a minor one in the first place. the european union has already solved quite different problems.
do you agree that the preparation and approval of a new basic treaty or constitutional treaty or simply a new treaty is a prerequisite for the accession of macedonia, croatia or other countries of the western balkans?
the president of the council. we have already had several discussions in this house on the speed of enlargement and, of course, also on the limits of enlargement. but at the same time, in the light of decisions already taken - such as the thessaloniki decision cited above - we have said that the european union must remain capable of acting in the event of further enlargements. it was already clear that the eu-15 would need other structures to remain viable. this is especially true for 25 and 27 member states respectively. the european union must first of all fulfil these conditions if it is to have the prospect of further accessions, i.e. be able to act and be transparent. i therefore repeat, as the president-in-office of the council has already said here in strasbourg: those who call for the accelerated enlargement of the european union are sometimes the very ones who are having difficulties with the constitutional treaty. but if we want the candidate countries to be integrated into the european union in the short or medium term - and this is something that can be advocated for political reasons - then we must create the conditions for the european union to be able to act. these conditions do not exist at present!
the president of the council. the council reacted strongly to the refusal of the sudanese government to grant visas to the un human rights council assessment mission for sudan and deeply regretted the lack of cooperation on the part of the sudanese government. the european union had previously made repeated appeals to the sudanese foreign minister, calling on sudan to cooperate with the mission. the council welcomes the fact that the un human rights council, at its fourth session, took note of the mission's report and adopted by consensus a resolution on the human rights situation in darfur, which mandates a panel of special rapporteurs to review all the recommendations made so far to improve the human rights situation in darfur and to promote their implementation. on 15 march 2007, the council reaffirmed its support for an urgent review by the un security council of further measures against sudan, and recalled that unscr 1591 requires those obstructing the peace process to be held accountable and appropriate measures to be taken. the council also expressed its determination to consider further action, in particular within the un framework, against any party to the conflict that impedes the implementation of the united nations support to the african union mission in the darfur region of sudan, including the implementation of the agreed au-un hybrid operation. the darfur conflict has been regularly discussed in talks with both china and russia, including meetings within the framework of the political dialogue. the consistent view was that the government of sudan must commit itself to a political solution to the conflict and give its unequivocal consent to the implementation of the entire un support package for the amis mission.
the president of the council. the council of foreign ministers in luxembourg last monday reviewed the situation in sudan and darfur. as you may know, the un special envoy, jan eliasson, was present. the situation in this region, which was already difficult, has not improved because, in addition to the conflicts between the various parties in sudan, another conflict has arisen, namely the sudden war between tribes. however, at the express request of the eusr, the council did not initially take any further action. the special representative has been lobbying for political and diplomatic channels to be used once again to perhaps secure agreement on a un-supported mission in the event of a change in attitude on the part of china. the foreign ministers have stated that the european union is considering further effective measures against sudan if there are no signs of this in the foreseeable future. and that cannot be a theme for st. nimmerlein's day, you cannot put it off for weeks and months and just wait.
in presenting the berlin declaration, mrs merkel referred to darfur as a wound for all of us and said that it was time for the european union to take unilateral, unilateral measures. i just wanted to clarify again, how long will these decisions take? are we still pursuing diplomatic channels that have not yet yielded results and probably will not?
the president of the council. i cannot share the last finding. i have already said that, in view of the conflicts and the problems facing the civilian population, it is necessary to involve both sides in the solution of the conflict. the european union has therefore not given any of the parties, including the ruling party, more confidence. the eu and other institutions active in the eu must provide for a lasting settlement of the conflict. i cannot personally comment on the first question. i'll have that checked out, too.
the president of the council. the council has no direct role in the planning or construction of the pipeline, since the implementation of community legislation is the responsibility of the member states and it is the commission's task to ensure that the member states apply this legislation properly.
obviously, i'm not satisfied with that answer. this does not mean that the member states can do whatever they want in the territory of the european union. russian experts have already determined that there is a lot of weapons, and now they are thinking of changing the route of the pipeline. the russians think that gazprom will be allowed to introduce military groups that, together with the baltic fleet, will control the entire pipeline and all who sail around and use that environment. the baltic sea is our common sea and i do not think it is a matter for two countries.
i would like to begin by thanking mr almunia for his information on the current relationship between the european union and switzerland. but i would like to hear mr. almunio's answer to the ultimate political goal of such a relationship. in other words, is the development of relations between the european union and switzerland geared to switzerland's future membership of the european union, and if so, when can this be expected and what should both switzerland and the european union do beforehand? if the development of relations is not aimed at swiss membership but at a privileged partnership between the european union and switzerland, what should be the principles of this partnership? i do not think that bilateral agreements alone will finally solve the problem of switzerland's political future, and i would therefore like to hear from mr almunias something like a road map showing the direction the commission is taking in developing relations between the european union and switzerland. it is difficult for me to say from the material submitted whether the commission has such a roadmap and whether it is not replaced by fixedterm contracts. my proposal is that a road map should be drawn up for the development of relations between switzerland and the european union, with the ultimate aim of either swiss membership of the eu or its privileged partnership under a constitutional treaty which has not yet entered into force. any decision requires that switzerland itself be aware of its own views on the prospects for the country. until this political problem is resolved, we will continue to make various agreements, each side seeking to obtain more favorable terms at the expense of the other. in analysing the contracts already concluded and those to be concluded, i have serious doubts whether we are not sometimes making greater demands on switzerland, which is not yet a member of the european union, than on the countries of the european union itself. i think it should be the other way around. i would hope that mr almunia will dispel the doubts i have expressed and answer the questions i have put.
author. the european union, in its activities in cooperation with other states, is founded on its fundamental values, the most important of which are democracy, human rights and freedoms. russian duma representatives, speaking in the european parliament, say they share the same values as the european union, but that no one is telling russia how to run its affairs at home. the crackdown on peaceful demonstrations in moscow, st. petersburg and nizhny novgorod demonstrates the impatience and fear of the russian authorities towards the pro-democracy movement, especially in the run-up to the 2008 presidential elections. russia, having realised the political and economic power of the energy weapon, has long ignored the views of the international community and the signals it sends about human rights violations in the country. russia a strategic partner of the european union, to which we apply double standards for the same energy as the rest of the world. in negotiating a new cooperation agreement between the european union and russia, i call on the council to take account of developments in russia and not to make concessions to it.
in recent years, russia has been growing economically, and opinion polls show a favorable outcome for the ruling class. therefore, the actions of the russian authorities against the opposition in mid-april are particularly incomprehensible. unable to gain a voice in the media, opposition parties and ngos are trying to draw attention to the violations of democracy in russia. the inadequate response to the demonstrations of just a few thousand people, the actions of militias and omon, are undermining russia's already declining authority in the west and hampering the planned negotiations on a new eu-russia treaty. few officials in moscow dare to admit that the actions of the power structures have gone beyond the bounds of the law. human rights abuses, and growing tensions between the government and the opposition in russia as the election campaign gets underway, are undermining hopes for a transparent and democratic campaign.
the euratom community, unlike coal and steel, did not foresee its end. if it has not fulfilled all its intended tasks or has not covered all nuclear-related activities, it has successfully fulfilled those tasks in conjunction with other international institutions related to nuclear energy. the current situation on eu and global energy markets and the consequences of climate change on the use of fossil and organic fuels make the euratom community even more relevant. fifteen eu countries have nuclear power stations, and other countries around the world are developing nuclear energy. the insecurity of nuclear power under the current safety controls is a politicised issue. the euratom community must remain autonomous, supplemented by the necessary legal provisions. i voted against convening an intergovernmental conference as likely to be unproductive. parliament's powers should not yet be increased, as the debate on nuclear energy shows.
mr. chairman, the alarm bell must be sounded as loud as possible when the announcer is present. in the three decades leading up to the year 2000, the world's animal and plant species declined by 40 percent. the european union then decided to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. time is running out. if we fail to stop the extinction of species of animals and plants in the world, we will have to raise a white flag and recognize that man's environment-destroying activities, his unbridled desire for profit and pleasure, can destroy the human race itself. many of the new eu countries lack knowledge about the extinction of species, and the importance of this problem. in projects financed by the cohesion and structural funds, the idea of not harming biodiversity is rarely mentioned or even considered. the european commission should extend the natura 2000 network to 12 new countries. in general, these countries have a higher biodiversity than the eu's oldest countries, and it is therefore necessary to conserve it and use it for green tourism. eu citizens need to feel the benefits of biodiversity and ecosystems. the loss of biodiversity affects the production of food, fuel, materials and medicines, the regulation of water, air and climate, the maintenance of soil fertility, the circulation of nutrients. unfortunately, we still live in squalor, abusing our children and grandchildren who may find themselves in an increasingly decadent world where many of the creatures that once lived are seen only in museums, photographs and movies. the commission's call to integrate biodiversity and ecosystem protection into all relevant policies and programmes, to protect marine biodiversity, and to reduce pollution in agriculture and industry is justified. this requires more funding and attention. climate change mitigation measures must not be harmful to biodiversity. the eu must set an even clearer example to the world of how to reconcile economic growth with nature conservation and the conservation of species.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the member states and the commission for their commitment to increase aid to trade to eur 2 billion by 2010. this is a serious commitment and will require a great deal of coordination between us. this requires a common strategy of the european union, which should indicate the means to achieve the above-mentioned objective. i also welcome the timely report of the committee on international trade which sets out parliament's approach to the issue of complex trade-related aid. i support the call for the commission to report to parliament twice a year on the progress of eu aid to trade. while the commitments of the countries mentioned above are limited to the traditional definition of aid to trade given by the organisation for economic cooperation and development, in the future, the conclusions of the wto and the proposed extension of this definition to include 'trade infrastructure', 'productivity opportunities', in other words, to take all possible measures to make aid to trade more comprehensive, flexible and effective, should be taken more seriously.
member of the commission. mr president, it has been a very passionate discussion and i completely understand why because, as i said before, we all feel a great frustration. but you have to understand that, over the last 10 years, the european union has really tried to play an important role for the peace process – not in order to enhance the conflict but in order to make peace, or help to make peace. in the end it is always the two parties that have to be ready, but we try to push them. we were then quite happy to be an important and influential member of the quartet. however, we can only be a facilitator of this peace. that means we have to look to both sides. we cannot just go to one side, and therefore we feel that we embraced the three quartet principles as important basic principles. it really is the council, not the commission, that can recognise the government – there are 27 member states. i understand if you ask me to do so, but it is not me who can take this decision. i know there is one instrument which you have indirectly mentioned: the cancellation or suspension of the association agreement with israel; but do you really think this would make a difference? i do not think it would. we would no longer be a facilitator of this process, so it would be the wrong instrument at this moment. what we have as an instrument is a continuous political dialogue where all the parties work with all the parties, but it is true that there are other members of the quartet too, for instance the united states of america, as has been mentioned. it is very important that we feel that there is also a push from that side too. over the last months, we have seen a much greater effort on the part of the usa, particularly from condoleezza rice. we have all welcomed that and have tried to move forward. the german presidency, in particular mrs merkel, but also foreign minister steinmeier, have really tried to move forward. a political solution can never be brought about by violence. unfortunately, we now have violence again. i can promise – and this is within the commission’s competence – that we will further engage with the national unity government, as we have started to do. but as we have said our policy is a gradual engagement and we cannot do everything. even salam fayad said to me when i first met him after the formation of the government that i would need some time to clean up the mess in the finance ministry – and this is still not completely done. therefore, we are nearly there, the technical conditions would be ready, but you also know that the council has to give us some political backing. i want you to understand these things. i think the situation is very dramatic, and i hope that the council understands that we have to engage in order to help this national unity government achieve the right platform to continue with the peace process and with the talks on the political horizon. we know that it is a complicated situation, and that is why i said that i see at least some positive hope in the fact that foreign minister livni will attend the next council meeting after the very positive meeting we had with the arab league, but on the ground i agree that the situation is very difficult, and, besides all this, it is also those factions and those different radical groups that are outside the government that would like to jeopardise the whole process. it is a vicious circle and i agree that we have to try to break it up. an honourable member mentioned that we have extended our mission monitoring the rafah border crossing. we did that because we think that opening up freedom of movement of goods and people is so important. i myself have been working on that with prime minister olmert. i remember my last visit there when i took it up in order really to go into the details. but there are security concerns. unfortunately, there are suicide bombers coming over the borders, a lot of funds are being smuggled, so you always have the two sides of this conflict, but we think that it is important to have prolonged this mission at the rafah crossing because only with the european union is there a chance of there being an opening. we are engaging. we are also working with the finance minister, not only on the temporary international mechanism (tim), but also on institution building and technical assistance, helping them particularly on the question of customs, revenue collection and on auditing. this has been asked for by salam fayad, so we are working with them. i said we will also look at what we can then perhaps fund through the tim as regards their particular desires, so not only those things that we have been funding up till now in order to help the population to survive, but to go further. this is what i can offer you in this delicate and difficult situation. we have to go on pushing and bringing the different parties together. i hope that the time window is still open.
member of the commission. the commission fully shares the honourable member’s concern about deforestation and peat land draining in south-east asia. it is aware of the link with the fast-growing demand for palm oil. production of palm oil is growing at about 9 % per year; more than 80 % of the production comes from malaysia and indonesia. in deciding how to tackle this problem, it is essential to have a clear picture of the supply of and demand for palm oil. about 1% of the world’s biofuels came from indonesian and malaysian palm oil in 2006. the main use of palm oil today is in food and other non-energy sectors. only 1% of palm oil production from indonesia and malaysia was used for biofuel production in 2006. however, demand for bioenergy is likely to rise in the future, and not only in the european union, and that leads to increased production of palm oil for biofuels. having said that, the commission is aware that, if nothing is done, the increasing demand for biofuel, linked to the proposed community biofuel target for 2020, could create additional environmental pressures, which would be contrary to the sustainable approach supported by parliament, the commission and the council. today, no mandatory certification exists that will guarantee that tropical rainforests or peat lands in south east asia are not suffering from the production of palm oil, regardless of its use. within the framework of its legislative proposal, the commission will therefore include a biofuel sustainability scheme designed to ensure that the biofuel sector plays its part in tackling this issue. the commission is currently working on the design of this scheme. it aims to include measures to deter the conversion of both tropical forests and peat lands for biofuel production, as well as measures to deter the use of production methods that are inefficient in greenhouse gas terms. these measures will apply to domestically produced biofuels as well as imported biofuels. in view of the above, any attempt to deal comprehensively with the impact of oil palm cultivation on the environment would need to take into account oil palm production for all end users. the commission, the council and parliament have all expressed support for a balanced approach to biofuels in which domestic production and imports will both contribute to meeting the huge requirement, but production will be carried out on a sustainable basis.
member of the commission. i definitely agree that our global scheme is to fight global emissions of co2 and for this reason we are certainly looking at the carbon footprint of biofuels use. at the same time, if the biofuels produced in one region would have to be transported to another region, we cannot artificially forbid this. for this reason, our scheme should include that the best biofuels are the more rewarded with the support and in this way it is a part of the scheme that will not encourage transporting palm oil to supply our market. additionally, i believe it is extremely important to understand that we need to work in parallel towards a way of protecting peat lands and rainforests. because, whatever we do, we perhaps will be sustainable. there will be other regions that will just go for palm oil. so, in the negotiations which are to start in bali, we need to work towards a scheme for protecting the rainforests, as well as looking at how to encourage the planting of more forests on the earth, not for palm oil for our transport, but for less co2 emissions from transport as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, i wanted to ask how the growth of biofuels production could affect the food market. the us corn used to produce biofuels is much more expensive than grain. in the long run, will we not have a food crisis with this kind of renewable energy?
member of the commission. it is a justified question. there is a lot of land in the european union that is not being used. therefore much of this land could be used for producing biomass, not only for biofuels but also for producing heat, for cooling or for producing electricity. a number of countries have a situation that is sustainable; they produce 12 % of their electricity from biomass. at the same time, they also produce biofuels. so there is potential for using that land. if i look at the second generation of biofuels, there is land that could be used for producing biofuels. the commission has calculated that the european union could cover 14% of its needs, even if we do not import biofuels from other parts of the world. concerning the increase in the price of food products, this is influenced by many elements. you mentioned the example of maize. the price of corn is decided on the global market and it has been highly affected by the severe drought in australia and the potential growth in the united states. there is some correlation if the farmer is given the choice of using his land for producing either biofuels or basic foodstuffs. but i believe the market will respond appropriately and, if our sustainability scheme that will encourage the production of biofuels with fewer co2 emissions is put in place, there will be a balance in this market. i have never said that we will be able to replace all the oil we use with biofuels. there is potential both in the european union and globally, but it will never replace all the oil we use. at this stage i would say that it is not a question of food prices or the use of biofuels, because globally biofuels are used on a very small scale and they definitely have not had any impact at this stage on the price of foodstuffs.
member of the commission. you might ask, which is more important, food or energy? when we were able to supply ourselves with oil and natural gas, the situation was different. today we have to import everything. we know that the global demand for oil and natural gas is also increasing. and yet we want to maintain the same level of comfort. this means that part of our efforts must go into the production of energy. as i said, we have so many opportunities and so many reserves at the moment that we have to exploit all of them. but we also need to be wise and not do anything that will cost us dearly in the future. the schemes we are developing are a first step. we have all the means to design these schemes so that the food industry does not have to face any major difficulties.
member of the commission. these are issues that we have discussed previously: how to supply the european union with sufficient energy resources. as you know today 50% of our energy supplies are covered by imports and we know that in the future the percentage will be even higher. it could be 65%, with more than 80% of gas being imported and even more oil, with over 90% being imported. for this reason we will continue to work with all traditional suppliers. for gas it is russia which today provides 27.5% of our supplies. oil is supplied by norway at 14% and algeria at 12.5%. for this reason, we are interested in strengthening ties with traditional suppliers and obtaining more supply routes. supply routes that deliver gas and oil are exposed to danger. i would mention a recent explosion in the ukrainian gas pipeline system. that certainly had an impact on transport but, because there were other ways of delivering gas, it did not affect the eu internal market. however, it is very clear that having more supply routes is more beneficial for consumers. eu dependency on russia should not be over-emphasised because it is clear that, with russia having the biggest gas resources as well as being one of the countries with the biggest oil resources, it is natural that supplies from russia are topping our import list. the burgas-alexandroupolis oil pipeline is in my opinion a very important project because it bypasses the turkish straits. in this way, it reduces first of all the possibility of an environmental disaster and secondly it is an additional supply route to channel oil that is produced north of the caspian to european markets. so, for this reason, this project also got support from the commission because it is an additional supply route and it does not increase our dependence on russia. at the same time it is very important to diversify; first because relying on one supplier gives the monopoly supplier a chance to dictate the price but also because it gives an opportunity to influence consumer choices. for this reason the european union has actively diversified its supply. one of the areas where we have been getting supplies this year is the caspian sea and shah-deniz in azerbaijan, where we have established very good cooperation from the countries surrounding azerbaijan, georgia and turkey. nabucco will be the next project that will be implemented. nabucco is a more ambitious project. it will take a bit more time but we are well on track to obtaining supplies from this source through the fourth potential gas supply corridor. at the same time we are also diversifying oil supplies because a project has also been announced from samsun to ceyhan, an additional oil supply project that again will bring oil from the black sea and the caspian sea region towards the european union. we are encouraging cooperation with these countries around the world because, even if there are three big suppliers to the gas market – russia, iran and qatar – there are other suppliers who could increase supplies. norway will increase supplies to the european union in the next few years by close to 50%. the same is happening with algeria, which will provide additional supplies and more and more lng terminals are coming on-stream. for this reason, i believe that we should continue to work with russia. we should continue to buy energy resources because, for russia, the eu is the best possible market because it is the closest market and mutual ties have existed for some time, but for security of supply it is important to diversify. additionally, i would like to stress two further elements because it is never the case that you can rely only on imports. it is important to develop energy sources inside the european union, to be extremely energy-efficient and to build internal energy infrastructure whether it be pipelines or electricity transmission lines. the european union is very active in all these areas, even if we always recognise that each country decides on its own energy mix. but, through the instruments of the internal market and through the instruments given us by european legislation, we are encouraging the use of local resources and being very energy-efficient.
i thank the commissioner for his reply and for the hope that we will find alternative sources of energy, because, as i said in my question, and in view of the current situation, it is clear that whatever the agreements, at one end of the pipeline, whether for oil or gas, is russia. lithuania has stopped supplying oil to russia, and latvia has done the same. so we can't rely too much on this source. but i would ask that we all make a concerted effort to speed up the implementation of projects for alternative energy sources.
member of the commission. well, i always advise member states to be active. i hope that they hear what you are saying and what i am saying because it is always important for member states to cooperate among themselves and look for alternatives. theoretically, if there is a need, the baltic states could use one additional energy terminal. but it is the governments that should decide how to diversify and how to cooperate and how to get interconnection. i am very glad that we have managed to interconnect the baltic countries’ market with finland. now the big task is to achieve interconnection with poland and in the future with the other nordic countries. this would also eliminate the risk of a possible disruption of supply from one direction affecting the whole country.
member of the commission. the commission is only partially supporting this because we do not have enough money in the budget. of course, we support the companies and the companies that can invest money there. it is a very interesting economic thing to invest in energy transport. at this point, i can say that the timetable for nabucco is set at 2012. the commission has already provided limited financial support, but political support is also important. the coordinator for this project will be announced in the coming months, of course in cooperation with the european parliament. i believe that after the adoption of the energy package we will have the opportunity to return to this question when the budgetary perspective is discussed. i think that there is also a need to allocate more funds to transeuropean energy networks, because there are areas which are strategically important and at the same time not so profitable for the economy. that's why we need more money. but we still have time to analyze all this and prepare a proposal.
thank you for your answers, commissioner, they are really impressive. i would like to ask you whether the commission has noticed that russia has never created difficulties as regards supplying ‘old’ eu member states with oil and gas, whereas with lithuania, latvia, hungary and other new eu member states, there have been many difficulties. what do you think about these first- and second-class forms of treatment?
member of the commission. there are two explanations for this. first of all, sometimes new member states’ policies have not been very clear as regards diversification; at least some of the new member states have not tried to encourage as much diversification as could be possible, thereby becoming more dependent on one supplier, russia. secondly, i do not think that russia does this on purpose; it is just because those countries are the first in line whenever supplies are disrupted and, as they are more exposed than older member states in terms of diversification of supply, they are affected more. member states should do much more and invest more in the diversification of the energy mix, of supply routes and of suppliers. furthermore, when the infrastructure is affected, those countries are the first to have a problem because the historical networks were constructed precisely to connect russia, as a supplier, with those countries, as consumers. that is why this perception exists, but i would repeat that diversification is the key to avoiding this state of affairs, and every country should embark on diversification in order to minimise any problem that may arise in the transport of supplies. i believe also that the suppliers would then take more care to deliver in the best possible time and to repair the networks as soon as possible if any leaks occur.
vice-president of the commission. racist and xenophobic violence and hate speech are a very sad reality all around europe. according to the 2006 annual report of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, the majority of member states have recorded an increase in racist violence and other racist crimes over the past few years. the commission has always rejected and condemned in the strongest possible terms all manifestations and expressions of racism, regardless of their source and form of manifestation. a measure to fight racist speech is perfectly compatible with freedom of expression if – and only if – it respects article 10(2) of the european convention on human rights. i would be the first to admit that defining the border between safeguarding freedom of expression and defining racist speech as a penal crime is not an easy task and that it requires careful consideration. however, i am convinced that there is no contradiction in simultaneously protecting people against racist speech and making sure that freedom of expression remains one of the key pillars upon which our societies are founded. this is the spirit in which the council reached a political agreement on 20 april 2007 on a framework decision aimed at ensuring that racism and xenophobia are punishable in all member states by effective, proportionate criminal penalties. this framework decision requires member states to criminalise intentional conduct, such as public incitement to violence or hate towards a group of people or persons belonging to a group defined on the basis of race. incitement to violence or hatred will also have to be made punishable throughout the eu if committed by public dissemination or distribution of pictures. distribution in this context means disseminating action by any means of transmission, including through websites. i am not aware of any parliamentary action in the uk or in other member states to tackle those websites. however, the framework decision is expected to lead to the adoption of new legislation, at least in certain member states, to address racist crimes, including those committed via the internet.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think this framework decision is appropriate. we have adopted it after five years of political discussions and i think that the responsibility for ensuring that it is fully and rapidly transposed by the member states and, above all, that the practical application of these rules is effective, will now lie with the member states. the commission has today adopted a general communication on cybercrime which stresses the need for a european network of all police authorities to ascertain whether the internet, this extraordinary and positive revolution, is being used by criminals, as it unfortunately is. we have seen that racist crimes and incitement to violence are on the rise in europe.
the commission's vice-president this will be the focus of the discussion in two days' time, this week, at the g8, where the european union and other partners will be addressing the issue of incitement to violence and terrorism on the web and on websites. the track i propose to explore is to criminalize the behaviour of those who actually incite criminal terrorist activities and exploit the network to do so. my proposal will be presented to the council of ministers in a few months.
vice-chairman of the commission . mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the added value of this directive is that it allows the recording, not the content, of a telephone call, but only the fact that a telephone call was made from a certain place, at a certain time, from a certain telephone. this, as everyone knows, has been useful in identifying the actual movements of certain criminals and certain suspected terrorists. of course, with technology we must also be able to identify those who use more advanced technologies, i.e. private providers or, for example, sim cards which have not been formally registered. but this is a matter of technology. in today's communication on cybercrime, i propose a european conference with the private sector and industry to be held in brussels in november, to take stock of the security technologies used to protect the proper use of the internet.
vice-president of the commission. as you know the commission and i personally are committed to fully implementing the european action plan against trafficking in human beings which i proposed here at the beginning of 2006 and which this parliament endorsed. this action covers the protection of victims of trafficking. its implementation requires close cooperation between member states, institutions and civil society organisations. the action plan should be regarded as a long-term programme which will guide continuous eu action in the near future and in any case far beyond summer 2007. i consider free telephone helplines as a valuable mechanism, offering advice to victims in need. they are particularly useful to spread confidence. i am committed to setting up without any delay a hotline for victims and those vulnerable to trafficking, covering all member states in the european union. you may know perhaps that on 15 february 2007 we adopted, as a commission, a decision which requires member states to reserve a range of six-digit national telephone numbers for single freephone numbers all beginning with 116 for services with social values. one of the many subjects to be covered could be telephone hotlines for victims of trafficking in human beings. the above decision has already reserved the number 116000 for hotlines to report missing children. i will discuss the latter project in more detail at a conference on an international day for missing children which will be held in brussels on 25 may, and at the conference on the rights of the child, to be held in berlin on 4 june 2007. ‘116’ numbers can be compared with the emergency number 112 in that they will give access to national or local organisations providing the service in question in the member state in which the call was placed. we have launched a public consultation for identifying other services which would benefit from single european freephone numbers. this consultation was open for proposals until 20 may. this is expected to lead to other numbers being reserved for other services later in the year. making them operational, allowing for citizens to be able to call these numbers, will then be the task of member states, their telecom regulatory authorities and telephone operators. the reservation of a common number and the creation of a network of hotlines is the first practical step to support victims. in addition to setting up a network of hotlines we seek to improve the assistance to victims of trafficking by other means too. my firm commitment to the issue is confirmed by the fact that the 2007 budget establishing a specific programme to fight against crime foresees four projects in the field of prevention and fight against crime in specific areas, including trafficking. we are also supporting the creation of a european anti-trafficking day, which aims to increase the visibility of the problem connected with trafficking. the initiative will take place on 18 october this year. we are highly committed to raising awareness and reinforcing policy means in order to provide quality services for those in need of assistance.
vice-president of the commission. i can tell you that we have completed an evaluation of the results of police cooperation during the world cup in germany, we will make the findings public and then there will be a debate, which i think should involve the european parliament fully. we consider the experience of the world cup in germany to be a positive case study. we have probably succeeded in preventing the transport to european territory of several thousand young girls destined for prostitution. we have had cooperation with 12 member countries of the european union. germany and the german police have done an excellent job. we have offered the findings that we will make public as a contribution to other future sporting events in europe. i can tell you that there is an interesting focus of the people's republic of china in relation to the holding of the beijing 2008 olympic games. in other words, it's an experience that's been deemed useful as a model.
vice-president of the commission. we certainly have addressed and examined this operational problem: the first issue, 116000, will be aimed at children. we 'll make this known with an advertisement in all the venues: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to make a clearer and more effective contribution to the development of the internal market. we are gradually extending the possibility, also provided for in the contract of the concessionaires who will carry out the service, to speak at least all the official languages of the european union. of course, we also have to think about languages like russian. for now, as a first step, we'll award the design before the summer holidays, so that this phone can be physically accessed and we'll launch a massive publicity campaign. we shall do the same when the other numbers, other than 116 000, are assigned certain priorities, including, of course, the number of victims of forced prostitution.
mr president, commissioner, you have indeed presented a comprehensive programme to combat crime, you have spoken of a number of special telephone lines. i'd like to ask, is there any confusion with the number of lines? and will, say, a person calling 911 be able to call for help from a victim of human trafficking?
president. - i would like to support the report by mrs lulling because i think it is well balanced and in line with the liberal tax policy. the dispute here today is not about the excise duty itself, which, as the commission likes to say, will not change anything if it is raised by a hundredth of a percentage point, and the difference between the excise duty in lithuania, for example, and that in the scandinavian countries will remain the same. the debate is whether we want standardised, harmonised tax rates or whether we think that the diversity of our countries should be reflected in different tax rates and different tax systems. yes, we must encourage business between different countries and create a single internal market. but we can achieve this and we have plans to do so (parliament has already adopted a report on this) by harmonising the tax base. tax rates must reflect the reality of each country, and must allow businesses to show their initiative. and in countries where the initiatives are not supported by the right infrastructure, as in the new countries, those initiatives may be supported by different tax rates. competition is always a healthy thing, no matter what view you hold. and our internal arguments about who's cheaper, it seems very ridiculous. all the cheap vodka is really in russia.
for the alde group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today a piece of legislation whose positive results will be felt very quickly by all european consumers and businesses, and indeed by ourselves. the estimated annual value of the european union's international roaming market is approximately eur 8,5 billion. this represents almost 6% of the total revenues of the mobile industry, which amount to about eur 150 billion per year. roaming charges are affected by at least 147 million citizens of the european union, of which 110 million are business customers. today, 70 percent of europeans turn off their mobile phones when they travel abroad because of the prohibitive cost of calling abroad. this problem is compounded by the lack of transparency of retail prices, and the absence of competition in this market. naturally, with lower call rates, we will talk more. this will not reduce the revenues of telecom operators in real terms, but will also benefit consumers and have a positive impact on the competitiveness of european businesses. in a eurobarometer survey, a large majority of almost 25000 respondents supported the forced reduction of roaming prices in europe. however, i would like to reiterate the view, not only my own but also that of many colleagues, that any interference with the market is not welcome and that this regulation is only a coercive, temporary measure to regulate the market. 3 years, i think, is the maximum timeframe not only for reducing prices but, more importantly, it is the timeframe for closing national markets to the single european market in this sector. that is the ultimate objective of this regulation. i congratulate the rapporteur of the european parliament, mr paul rübig, the other shadow rapporteurs, the chair of the itre committee, ms angelika niebler, the commissioner, ms viviane reding, the commission and the council, and all the users and operators who have found this perfectly coordinated solution. the routing regulation was a difficult process: every sentence was examined in detail, each tariff and its conditions of application were discussed. parliament has shown incredible rationality and concentration. i hope for a unanimous and positive vote in parliament today, for a positive response from the council on 7 june, for the publication of the document without delay (not on 29 june as was said) in the official journal and for its final entry into force during the summer holidays.
for the alde group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr panayotopoulos-cassiotou, on the preparation of this very important document and thank him for his cooperation in discussing amendments and finding compromises. today we are talking about promoting decent work for all, both within and outside the community. i strongly support this commission initiative, as increasing employment and improving working conditions is one of the most important urgent tasks. but when it comes to decent working conditions for all, it is worth looking first at what they are like here in the community. i recently visited london with my colleague, baroness sarah ludford, and we spoke to lithuanians living and working there, representatives of the confederation of trade unions, and employees of the lithuanian embassy. it turned out that decent working conditions are something that many lithuanians working in london can only dream about. temporary employment agencies often violate the law by demanding illegal job search fees, document preparation, and by taking passports and not returning them. exploitation is particularly evident in the hotel business, where employers do not pay the minimum wage as defined by law. after this visit, sarah ludford called lithuanians the slaves of the 21st century. commissioner, we have an agency in dublin which investigates working and living conditions. i have spoken to her management on several occasions and asked for an investigation. i now ask you, commissioner, to carry out an inquiry into the economic, social and psychological exploitation of migrants in the community with the help of this agency and to propose measures to eliminate it. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should regularly report to the european parliament and the council on the impact of all policies promoting decent work for people in the community.
the introduction of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages in 1992 was the beginning of the attempt to harmonize taxes in the context of the creation of the single market. it was and is a complicated process. the commission has so far succeeded in partially harmonising indirect taxes by setting minimum levels for alcohol, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel. however, in practice, tax policy remained a competence of the member states. increasing excise duties on the basis of the increase in inflation in the eu between 1993 and 2006 is not logical. why does this inflation also apply to countries that joined the eu since 2004? the total abolition of excise duty on the grounds that it is a low revenue for the member states is also unjustified. in keeping with the objective of excise duties, excise duties on tobacco and fuel should be abolished in a similar manner. i support maintaining the status quo by not changing the excise duty and allowing member states to continue to set their own taxes on the basis of subsidiarity. moreover, there is no consensus among the member states themselves on the abolition of excise duties.
the president of the council. i believe, madam president, that it is in the interest of everyone, and especially of passengers, that they can fly with the greatest possible safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it will certainly be important to ask the question among those involved: what has all this brought? unfortunately, there are currently no other mechanisms to check more transparently and perhaps as simply as in the past. but none of the citizens who like to make use of their freedom of movement, their freedom to travel, would understand it if those responsible for security and freedom did not also guarantee the highest possible level of security. if new technical developments allow a new way forward without such disruptions, all parties will be happy to do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so a little bit of personal responsibility could very well lead to less waste being generated here.
the president, mr minister, the same question was put to the representative of the european commission in this chamber a month ago, but we did not hear a clear answer. and certainly, i agree that the top priority is safety, but it's probably time to review that decision and either loosen that measure or tighten it up. what do you think?
mr president, i would like to ask you, mr president of the council, what is the council's position on similar visa facilitation for countries such as ukraine, moldova and belarus? i think it would be very important not to forget these countries.
i would like to thank mr gierek and all the members who have contributed to this comprehensive report. i would like to draw attention to a few important points. first of all, i would like to make it even clearer that it is the regional partnerships that are the basis for the implementation of the european innovation policy we are developing. the 'networked' cooperation between businesses is of great importance as it enables businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to feel more secure and to respond more dynamically to the new challenges of globalisation. europe and the member states must promote the emergence of such a system! secondly, the priority areas for the development of research and innovation must be chosen with a high degree of responsibility. lithuania has just completed a comprehensive survey of its economic development in the light of regional and global trends, which shows that the economy is growing not so much through the creation of new economic sectors and the channelling of state funds into those sectors as through the transformation of existing economic sectors. it is therefore necessary to promote innovation in enterprises in all economic sectors to ensure sustainable economic growth, bearing in mind that the viability of high-tech industries is highly dependent on the viability and innovation of local traditional industries. in the end, ladies and gentlemen, the future of european industry does not depend on which industrial sectors we choose to develop. it depends on whether we can create a new society where innovation is a way of life! the third thing i want to highlight is the country's innovation and innovation assessment. new methods of evaluation are needed! because studies show that the assessment of the innovation of economic sectors in lithuania and other eu countries based on the european scoreboard can be seriously flawed, and the established claim of a direct link between research activities and the innovation of the country's economy raises serious doubts.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the augusta ring road should become part of the via baltica. this is of great importance for augusta, which sees around 1.5 million vehicles pass through its centre every year. the european commission has brought a case against poland before the court of justice of the european union for the construction of a bypass, which was begun before poland's accession to the eu, because it violates the environmental requirements of the raspudas valley, through which the viaduct is designed. the site is protected by the natura 2000 programme. however, environmental problems are not addressed by the nord stream project, which is planned within the natura 2000 site and may have unforeseen ecological consequences. poland is looking for solutions, perhaps building a much more expensive tunnel, but the people of augusta want to live in peace. the people who suffer from pollution are not cared for. i asked the commission what alternative and aid, other than a building ban, poland could receive. i was told that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the commission is not empowered to impose specific decisions on the member states or to indicate the costs. should the commission's powers be reviewed? will the baltic states be forced to fly to europe only by air?
mr president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues who voted in favour of the resolution on estonia. with today's vote, the european parliament has shown that the eu's common foreign and security policy is not just a declaration on paper or a set of slogans. it has proven to be a policy that works. today the european parliament has demonstrated something else, namely that solidarity is a living and working principle in the european union. it's easy to declare and show solidarity when there are no problems and everything is fine. but it is much more important and more difficult to implement solidarity in the critical moments of crisis. today the european parliament has also demonstrated that there is no distinction in the european union between old and new, large and small member states of the european union, that there are no important and less important members whose interests can be sacrificed for the sake of or in the interests of the big ones.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the four years of war in darfur do not give any hope of human rights being respected in the warring countries. the relevant documents have been signed, but the commitments undertaken are not being implemented. the conflict in darfur has left some 200,000 people dead and 2.5 million homeless. the country is in chaos and the government is in a state of confusion. i would like to draw attention to the conditions that continue to fuel the military conflict and allow human rights violations in sudan. whose weapons are used in darfur? according to amnesty international, china and russia are supplying arms to darfur, although they deny this and have supported a security council resolution banning the transfer of arms to darfur. in addition, china has significant energy and raw material interests in sudan. the objective is to make a profit, and the volatility seems to be conducive to this. the resolution of the conflict, the restoration of human rights in sudan, will depend on the eu's cooperation with the parties concerned and international organisations, to which those countries are not fulfilling their obligations.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union welcomed the creation of the new united nations human rights council in 2006, but has always expressed its expectation that the council will become an efficient and credible body that makes a real contribution to the protection and promotion of human rights worldwide. during the previous meetings of the human rights council, the european union has attached equal importance to substantive debates on human rights issues as well as to dialogue and good cooperation. the resolution on darfur, jointly tabled by the european union and the african group, was adopted by consensus at the fourth regular session. this is the result of sustained efforts by the european union, and the result reflects not only the mandate but also the responsibility expected of the council. the ability of the human rights council to fulfil its mandate is inextricably linked to its composition. let me remind you again that the united nations general assembly expects the council's member states to uphold the highest human rights standards. it also called on all states to elect only those with a good human rights record to the council. although this ideal is still far from being fulfilled, i would like to express the european union's satisfaction that it was possible to prevent the election of belarus to the human rights council in may. this success is due not least to the european union's opposition to belarus' candidacy. although numerically in the minority, the european union has nevertheless a leading role in the council and has established itself as an important player. despite some positive developments, such as the adoption of an international convention for the protection of persons from enforced disappearance, further steps are needed to equip the human rights council with the working methods and instruments it needs to meet the expectations of the international community and, in particular, the european union. the institutional development of the council is a top priority for the european union. it is therefore working intensively towards the successful completion of this process of consolidation by the end of the first year. the forthcoming fifth meeting will therefore be of crucial importance. the council will then take the final decisions on institution building and thus ultimately decide on its own efficiency and credibility for the next five years. the european union is currently working closely with all parties in geneva to achieve an outcome that will enable the human rights council to fully implement its mandate. in the presidency's contacts with the chairman and with other delegations of the human rights council, we seek to ensure that the council plays a central, effective and credible role within the united nations system. in this context, the european union wishes to insist on the creation of an effective, universal, periodic review procedure and on the maintenance of thematic and country mandates. the proposed code of conduct for special rapporteurs must not undermine their independence, but rather ensure it and focus on the obligation of states with which the rapporteurs cooperate. we also aim to ensure the expertise of the mandate holders, as well as their independence, through an appropriate selection process. we are aware of the difficulties involved in pursuing these objectives. but i can assure you that we will not relent in our efforts to achieve these goals. the european union also remains firmly convinced that the council, with its regular meetings throughout the year, its new and improved instrumentation and the continuation of active dialogue with special rapporteurs and the high commissioner for human rights, will become a cornerstone of the united nations human rights system. it is now up to all the members of the human rights council to act responsibly and also to work towards achieving this goal.
member of the commission. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the internal market. the european union has been one of the main drivers of human rights protection since its inception and has therefore been actively involved in achieving the objectives of the human rights council and ensuring that it represents a real improvement on the commission on human rights. the first thing to be done was to ensure that the council's meetings addressed urgent human rights issues in the light of specific events and to improve coordination within the eu and the eu's outreach to third countries. in this respect, real progress has been made, which has enabled us to act in a coherent and credible manner in the human rights council and to strengthen cooperation with international partners, including at bilateral meetings and through a wide-ranging awareness-raising campaign in many capitals of the world. the priority tasks during the first year therefore included securing the mandates and mechanisms of the human rights council in the context of the review process and the establishment of the new system for reviewing the human rights situation in all countries, which we call the universal periodic review. the package of an overall compromise presented just yesterday by the presidency of the human rights council is really pointing in the right direction and in our view constitutes a first, still in need of improvement, but at any rate a very good basis for negotiations. the forthcoming fifth session of the human rights council next week will therefore be of particular importance for the future of this body. i am all the more pleased that a delegation from the european parliament will also be taking part in it as part of the delegation from the european communities. what is the overall record of the human rights council so far? the council should, in my view, be - you cannot give a black and white answer - an ongoing project, a kind of work in progress. let me make a few brief remarks. the first meetings of the council were rather disappointing. the old patterns of behavior were repeated. we have already been used to this by the commission on human rights. the middle east conference in particular was really characterized by a lack of cooperation on the part of the countries which had called it. the result was that we had to vote on unbalanced draft resolutions, which we in the european union could not agree to. so let me be clear: confrontation on human rights issues may sometimes be necessary when it comes to the enforcement of human rights interests, but not when the human rights pendulum is primarily a political conflict. but we too, like the presidency of the council, see that the negative impressions have been mitigated by the very good resolution on darfur which was recently adopted here. that was, i believe, the most important resolution to date. it was, of course, closely coordinated with the african group in very lengthy negotiations and was finally adopted by consensus. this is a considerable achievement, considering that the issue is so sensitive and the eu can now be easily voted out of office in the human rights council. the monitoring panel of five independent un rapporteurs set up by the resolution will present a first report to the council in the coming weeks - most likely next week. but let us not forget that the international criminal court has recently also indicted two sudanese defendants. in short, there is at least movement on this front in darfur. we very much hope that this example will serve as a lesson and that it will also set standards for the future work of the human rights council. finally, the interactive dialogues with the high commissioner and the un special rapporteur have proved to be a very positive development. they enable us to address the human rights situation in individual countries - often also in the context of more thematic human rights issues - in a very visible and at the same time much less confrontational way. we must, however, find other ways of achieving concrete results on the ground following these dialogues. the council has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take it into account. so far, there's been some bright and dark sides. we are convinced that the eu will continue to strive to build on the positive developments already in place and, in close dialogue with un partners, to develop an effective un human rights council that acts above all in the interests of the people concerned. it remains the most important international forum for the treatment of human rights and we, the eu, have a responsibility to use it actively to strengthen our values, our ideals and our interests.
for the ppe-de group first of all, i would like to thank the representatives of the council and the commission for their reports on the first year of work of the united nations human rights council and on the 5th session of the united nations human rights council. the european parliament will vote tomorrow on a resolution on this issue, setting out the main problems, our expectations for the methods, mechanisms, special procedures, special rapporteurs, the universal periodic review and the role of the european union in the work of the human rights council. the european parliament has undoubtedly had high hopes and expectations from the human rights council for the simple reason that human rights are a matter of particular importance, since respect for and protection of human rights are a fundamental part of the eu's ethos and legal order, and the foundation of european unity and integrity in general. and the united nations human rights council can provide a great opportunity to act effectively in the defense, protection and promotion of human rights on behalf of the united nations. in this sense, the 5th session is particularly important, as the year of the human rights council has highlighted problems and shortcomings that can and must be addressed now. to make the human rights council a truly credible body, capable of responding adequately and rapidly, where necessary, to human rights violations in any country in the world, and capable of finding instruments of influence to influence the governments of those countries where human rights are seriously violated. the first year of the human rights council's activities allowed the council to test whether the procedures and mechanisms envisaged would enable it to implement the ambitious programme it had approved. the experience of the first years, the application of the confidentiality requirements of the resolutions on darfur, as well as on iran and uzbekistan, when human rights violations were discussed in the latter two countries, and some other decisions, demonstrated that the procedures of the human rights council should be as transparent as possible and that the special rapporteurs and experts should be genuinely independent. necessary and clear criteria for the election of members of the human rights council, following the simple logic that states where human rights are seriously violated should not be elected to the human rights council.
the european institute for gender equality is being set up in vilnius and is due to start its activities this year. the institute was, as is known, wanted to be established in their capitals by slovakia and slovenia, but the decision was favourable to lithuania and was supported by the european parliament. however, after the authorities of vilnius, the capital of lithuania, refused to grant permission for the anti-discrimination campaign, i.e. did not allow the 'euro-tractor' to travel across europe for the fourth time to spread information about the campaign 'for diversity: against discrimination' and the european year of equal opportunities for all, and the european commission made a statement on the decision of the city authorities, there were those who wanted to speculate that the european commission had doubts about the value of establishing a european institute for gender equality in vilnius. i am absolutely convinced that vilnius, which has long been known as a city of tolerance, truly deserves to be the workplace of the european institute for gender equality. i would also like to point out that no country is above reproach when it comes to human rights and freedoms, and that all eu member states have much to do in the area of tolerance, the fight against discrimination on grounds of race, ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, religion, etc. let's work together.
the reform of the cap is understandably necessary, but its implementation is limited to eu member states with different levels of agricultural support. the new member states, with almost three times less benefits than the old ones, and with a much worse position to choose from, must reform their farms while making them worse off. the reform of the fruit and vegetable market proposes the application of a single payment scheme. this will mean even less support for the new states than before and less opportunities to compete in the market. requiring fruit and vegetable farmers to set up producer organisations to receive eu support has in fact distorted the fruit and vegetable market. the distribution networks can dictate their own terms and conditions and not accept the products of small producers for sale. i would point out that the regulation proposes to increase the consumption of fruit and vegetables by encouraging consumption by certain groups of the population - young people, school-age children and adolescents. what about the rest of the population?
mr president, today parliament voted in favour of the resolution on the united nations human rights council and its fifth session. as one of the authors of this resolution, i am pleased that all the political groups agreed on the assessment of the first year of the work of the united nations human rights council, the shortcomings that should be corrected, and the mandate given to the european parliament's ad hoc delegation to participate next week in the 5th plenary session of the human rights council, a session of particular importance for the future of this organisation. as one of the authors of the resolution and a member of the delegation, i thank parliament and all the colleagues who supported this resolution.
mr president, a memorial to the countless victims of communism and of communist governments was recently unveiled in washington. here, in our parliament building, a modest memorial plaque commemorates the tens of thousands of innocent baltic victims of the first mass deportations of june 1941, carried out by the soviet red empire, from lithuania, latvia and estonia – countries which at that time were occupied and which today are member states of the eu. the plaque was unveiled in the spring, following an initiative by members and thanks to the understanding and good will of our president, hans-gert pöttering, and of other people involved in the decision. i should like to invite all colleagues – not only members from the baltic states – to gather at 10.00 tomorrow in front of this memorial plaque, by the flags at the visitors’ reception, for a few minutes, where we will lay flowers and reflect in silence on our hopes for a better world.
last week, an ad hoc delegation of the european parliament, of which i was a member, attended the fifth session of the united nations human rights council. this council, which was set up in march last year to replace the discredited and overly politicized commission on human rights, is due to decide this week, today, on the council's working methods, principles for shaping its agenda, decision-making and code of ethics. last week we saw that it is particularly difficult for the member states of the european union, which are members of this council, to carry out their mission of influencing effectively the governments of countries where human rights are being systematically violated. i believe it is time for the european union to reassess its role in the un human rights council and to seek new, more effective instruments to successfully fulfil its mission. otherwise this council will repeat the sad experience of the commission on human rights.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the honourable member gunnar hökmark on a tremendous job and for rightly mentioning what this is all about. it is incredible; we cannot even begin to suggest how things might be 10 years from now. the european parliament supports you, and your report contains very interesting points. i would also like to thank the other committee members involved – mr harbour, mrs bourzai and mr sakalas – for contributing to this work. it is a united effort, so to speak. last but not least, let me thank all those who took an active part in our ‘bridging the broadband gap’ conference, held in brussels in may: mr hökmark, mrs bourzai, mr harbour, mr goepel and mr chatzimarkakis. the commission’s vision is for it to be the norm for european citizens to be connected to broadband and to have a choice of services at their disposal. competition is the main channel for delivering investment and innovation. however, there is a ‘but’: as we are aware, rural areas and disadvantaged regions are struggling. these are economic areas where ict is not an option. rural diversification and economic growth require the diffusion of innovative technologies and the adoption of an active ict policy by regional authorities. that is why the commission has built this aspect into regional policy and into agriculture and rural development. we estimate that in the new programming period – 2007 to 2013 – about eur 65 billion from the european regional development fund will be devoted to rural areas. furthermore, 4.4% of cohesion policy resources – eur 14 billion – will be invested in priorities directly linked to the information society. in europe, we recognise both the primacy and the limits of the market in pushing broadband forward. several public initiatives are being undertaken where the market does not work. it is a fact, however, that the gap between urban and rural areas is increasing rather than closing. let me give you some figures. thirty percent of the rural population is excluded from broadband coverage, compared to an eu average of 10%. only 10% of the rural population subscribes to it, compared to 17% of the eu population. the most common speed in rural areas is below 512 kilobytes per second, while the average in the eu is as much as one megabyte per second. poor broadband access widens not only the digital divide, but also the economic and social divides. local and regional authorities have a key role to play in bridging that gap. public policies, however, must respect state aid rules. broadband markets are highly innovative and governments need to take care not to pre-empt them or to distort competition. but if a government believes that current services are inadequate, it can step in. under state aid rules, the commission has taken 26 decisions clarifying when public intervention is acceptable from the point of view of competition policy because it tackles real market failures. mr hökmark’s report has highlighted the fact that broadband is increasingly a service of general economic interest. the commission faces the question of whether broadband should be part of universal service obligations. to date, broadband is not included, as you are aware. we must think about what we mean when we call for broadband for all. we may also need to look again at funding issues. we need proper consideration of this issue, which is why the commission will publish a green paper early next year to launch a wide-ranging policy debate on the issue among all stakeholders.another important aspect of this policy is radio spectrum. wireless technologies are crucial for rural areas, but wireless technologies will become reality if – and only if – radio spectrum is available and accessible to market players ready to invest. we need a spectrum policy that is more flexible and, where appropriate, market driven. we need a more coordinated approach. this is the line the commission will take in the forthcoming review of the telecom rules. that review will be fundamental to the further enhancement of competition. to conclude, where market failure is clear, public authorities should step in and equip their territory with the appropriate broadband capabilities. in any case, we will continue working on the exchange of best practice and make sure that all regions are up to speed.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. commissioner, and mr gunnar håkmörk, let me thank you both for your ideas and for the prospect of their realisation. the committee on legal affairs is well aware of the importance of broadband for the economy of the european union and therefore does not question any of its important economic aspects. but there's also the legal side. broadband today is in the hands of private capital, and private capital is organizing it where it makes a profit. and it's profitable in the big cities, in the big towns, but not in the countryside or in some remote outpost. the committee believes that every citizen of the european union, whether in a city or in a remote outlying area, should not only have the right to broadband but also the opportunity to exercise that right. the legal committee therefore proposes to the commission that where private capital is not involved in the organisation of broadband, the structural funds should be used to implement broadband.
the definition and labelling of alcoholic beverages has undergone many changes since 1989, madam president. the european union has been joined by countries that traditionally produce vodka. these are sweden and finland, the penultimate enlargement countries, the baltic states and poland. the name vodka and the production tradition are also of nordic origin. traditionally, vodka has always been made from grain. some countries make it from potatoes and sugar beets. now that the traditional producers of vodka have joined the eu, we want vodka to be the name and the label of an alcoholic beverage made from grain, potatoes and sugar beet. the consumer must know what whiskey is and what it is made of. the consumer has the right to buy a product made according to original and traditional recipes and from traditional raw materials. so why does that apply to whiskey and not to brandy? i urge everyone to vote for the right compromise: vodka made from grain, potatoes and sugar beet.
for the alde group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about eu-russia relations, we all remember that russia is a strategic partner of the eu. the eu exports 7.3% of its exports to russia and russia exports 53% of its exports to the eu. it would seem that russia is very dependent on the eu. however, 65% of eu imports from russia are energy-related. some countries import 100 percent of their gas from russia. the eu is really dependent on russian exports, its energy policy globally, the eu and domestically. russia uses energy as a political tool in its attempts to dictate its political terms to the former soviet states and eu members, especially the baltic states. for almost a year, no decision has been taken on the repair of the oil pipeline "družba" which supplied oil to lithuania. russia is dividing the solidarity of the eu countries by proposing bilateral energy supply projects, the use of which for political purposes may have dire consequences for the eu's common energy policy. this is the nord stream, a german-russian project that will make germany directly dependent on russian political interests, or the blue stream, which is intended to replace the eu's planned nabucco. the report under discussion today suggests that the main objective of eu energy policy cannot be simply to avoid energy dependence on russia. i would like to emphasise that this must be a key instrument to achieve one of the key objectives of the eu's common energy policy - energy security.
on the bus to strasbourg, i read goldman sachs' forecasts that in 40 years, russia will be one of the strongest economies in the world, surpassing the largest european countries in gdp per capita. this pro-russian investigation would be justified if russia played by the rules of fair play accepted worldwide in economic and trade matters, if it followed the path of democracy, albeit with russian specificities. but we are still a long way off in terms of both time and trends. russia's economy is growing at an impressive rate, but reforms are slowing, corruption is not decreasing, and the legal system is not becoming more reliable. the chodarkovsky and lebedev cases, which are about to be reopened, could become a travesty of justice. european investors do not have the adequate legal protection that is guaranteed to russian investors in eu countries. moscow's tendency to infuse politics with oil, gas and meat is a cause for concern. the new eu states suffered losses when russia was in conflict with ukraine and belarus, cut off oil supplies to the oil companies because of technical failures, and did not disrupt the polish meat import hub. the eu-russia trade relationship would benefit from the baltic sea cooperation strategy in the context of the northern dimension, in particular the kaliningrad area test site. the openness or closeness of this area is like a barometer of the intentions of all of russia. for now, the barometer is "changing", with no investment and trade rules, no tax policy, and no sense of security for eu business people working in the region. still, you'd expect the barometer to be tilted to the right. and the mutually beneficial eu-russia trade relationship will help russia to realise its favourable economic prospects and become a good and reliable partner for the eu.
mr. president, i want to talk about the schnellhardt document. i'm not a fan of vodka and i have no intention of promoting it, but i think that the compromise we reached today, including the definition of vodka, is a step forward. i voted for it, although the country i represent, lithuania, wanted a much more precise definition. i think that what we have adopted today does not fully meet the expectations of consumers and the expectations of european union producers, especially from our region, but understanding that this is a compromise, i voted in favour of it.
member of the commission. what we were discussing this morning on the report by the committee of inquiry into equitable life was how insurance companies are regulated and the deficiencies found by the committee of inquiry regarding regulation, the transposition of eu directives and other matters. but i think what the member is referring to here is that the citizen should be able to benefit from being able to conduct motor insurance business across frontiers. however, that is a two-sided transaction. he or she must get an insurance company to provide that particular business, and the evidence so far is that many insurance companies do not have a commercial policy for looking for cross-frontier business for a wide variety of reasons – i submit that they are probably not familiar with the claims policy in that country, the legal system, or the quantum of damages that may be awarded, which vary considerably from country to country. therefore, as i have pointed out in my reply, under the directives we have, it would be possible for an individual to do this, subject to the various rules. however, there must, of course, be an insurance company that is willing to act in that particular way and to take on those aspects of cross-border business. as i said in my reply, i accept that it would be a very good thing if that could be done, and this is why we are looking at this in the context of the green paper on retail financial services. if there are things we can do to make that somewhat easier, we will take it on board. however, until now the situation is that, while we want to bring down the frontiers and make sure the market is liberalised, there needs to be a company that, for its part, wants to do it, and that has not been the situation up until now. there are limited exceptions, but it is not a business in which these opportunities have been uptaken.
member of the commission. buying residential property represents a difficult and time-consuming challenge for consumers. legal and fiscal matters are big challenges, even in one’s own member state. these challenges are only exacerbated when consumers are purchasing a residential property outside their member state: procedures often are completely different from the ones in place ‘at home’. while the commission is fully aware of these facts, there is no simple answer. taxation and property laws that lie at the origin of the complexity fall largely outside the scope of community competence. nevertheless, the commission supports initiatives that promote transparency in european housing and mortgage-lending markets. transparency is particularly important for consumers, especially where rules vary from one country to the next. consumers need full and accurate information to be able to make an informed choice when buying a property in another member state. the request for an information leaflet for consumers purchasing property has also been made within our ongoing review of the european mortgage credit markets, where stakeholders suggested that the commission create and maintain an online guide to the main legal and other issues relating to cross-border lending. i am in favour of such initiatives. buying property across borders is a natural consequence of the freedoms that constitute the essence of the single market. where consumers face practical problems or lack of information, we must try to help them, for example by pointing out what problems they may encounter and by pointing them in the direction of the relevant bodies and authorities that can assist them. the commission will look into these issues and see what is feasible. but let me be honest: this is not an easy task. the commission does not necessarily have access to all the information that would be required, nor would we necessarily have the means to verify that such information is accurate or up to date. before moving ahead, we must be certain that we can overcome this challenge. working together with third parties may also be an option.
member of the commission. i certainly agree with the honourable member. as i said, it could be quite a difficult task to undertake this body of work. as mr crowley mentioned, the underlying principle must always be caveat emptor. in all these areas, whether you are buying property or financial products, it is something that everybody must be aware of. as i said earlier today, when someone comes along offering you a deal that seems too good to be true, it usually is too good to be true. that is something we must bear in mind. mr crowley mentioned the question of having a second will. only last weekend i read an article in a professional magazine that was advising people who have properties in spain, for example, that it was essential to make a will there covering that particular property and how to go about it. by the way, i do not have a property in spain as of now, but many irish people i know do, and are not aware of this requirement. this article was in a magazine that would only be read by people working in accountancy. what mr crowley says is very important. only a very small percentage of irish people who have homes in that very nice country of spain would be aware of this information. one of the 48 recommendations set out by the expert group was for there to be an information leaflet. it will be a bit of a task to determine what we can cover adequately within the leaflet, but we will certainly have an attempt at it. the danger is that, since we will not be able to cover everything, we may face the moral hazard of not supplying all the information, but let us see what we can achieve. if we are trying to have a single market for all areas, the logical thing then is to provide the information that goes across these particular fronts. it would also help improve the image of the european union if ordinary people were to say that was something very worthwhile had come from the european union. we will make an attempt at it. how successful we will be, i do not know.
mr president, i agree with you that this is a complex issue. i've written a book myself on how to start a business in the 15 old european union countries, including the acquisition of real estate and taxes and other conditions. you mentioned there were data sets. you could indicate what the kits are, and if they are not complete, they must be designed in such a way that people, when they move freely within the european union, have all the information about all the conditions and the real estate as well.
member of the commission. mr president, so far, in formal terms, the commission has not gone beyond what we proposed to the council, and the ecofin council has approved the latest update of the stability programme, namely to improve the long-term sustainability of public accounts in greece. greece is one of the six countries in the union which, in our report last year, is in a high risk position as regards the lack of sustainability of its public accounts, largely because, with current demographic forecasts, a sharp increase in pension and health spending is expected. it is not the only element, but it is a clear element, to which is added the very high level of public debt in greece, which is, as i said in my first speech, above 100% of greek gdp. what is needed, therefore, is for the greek authorities to formulate, and for the greek parliament to debate and approve, reforms aimed at improving sustainability, for which - there is no doubt for anyone who analyses the situation of the greek economy and public accounts in greece - a reform of the pension system and the social protection system must be undertaken, improving its sustainability and therefore its viability in the medium and long term and, at the same time, beyond the correction of the excessive deficit that has taken place. budgetary strategies in greece need to continue to keep the reduction of public debt levels as a structural objective because, although they are declining, they are still extraordinarily high.
member of the commission. mr president, commissioner, as far as the provisions of the single monetary policy of the euro area are concerned, sweden is currently one of the member states with a derogation. there are currently 13 member states with this derogation, and then there is the united kingdom, which has the well-known 'opt-out' and is therefore not among the member states with a derogation. with the exception of denmark, all the other member states with a derogation, i.e. 12 member states, are to adopt the euro as their currency, and to do so they must endeavour to meet the convergence criteria laid down in the treaty. however, the treaty does not lay down any explicit deadlines for member states to comply with this obligation. our last convergence report covering the states with this derogation was published in december 2006, and in it the commission concluded that sweden fulfilled the price stability criterion, the criterion on the government budgetary position and the criterion on the convergence of longterm interest rates. however, according to our convergence report, sweden did not fulfil the exchange rate criterion which requires that the member state concerned has observed, without severe tensions and for at least the two years prior to the examination, the normal fluctuation margins provided for in the european exchange rate mechanism (erm ii). the commission also stated in its convergence report of december last year that swedish legislation was not fully compatible with articles 108 and 109 of the treaty as regards the regulation of the central bank and its integration into the european system of central banks. in the light of this assessment, the commission concluded that the status of sweden as a member state with a derogation should not be amended in this respect. in accordance with the treaty, the commission and the european central bank will publish the next convergence report in 2008, in principle in may 2008. as regards the last part of your question, which relates, by way of comparison, to the security of energy supply, the provisions of the treaties in force have already led the european parliament and the council to adopt directives on the security of natural gas supply on the one hand and on the safeguarding of the security of electricity supply in infrastructure investment on the other. these directives must be transposed into national law, and in the case of the last directive, transposition must be completed before 1 december this year. so we are not exactly in two identical situations from a legal point of view. an obligation, the obligation to join the euro, is one which the treaty does not specify in terms of maximum time limits or legal rules for implementation, but refers to that convergence assessment which is carried out every two years, and on the other hand, in the case you mention as an example, that of energy security, there are directives which must be applied by the member states, and in the event of non-compliance the corresponding infringement procedures apply.
i am not satisfied with your answer, mr commissioner, because it is clearly stated in sweden's accession treaty that it is implementing all the treaties that are in force before that date. it therefore has no exemption under the principle of closer cooperation. now the swedes have just decided, four years after the referendum, to vote against the euro again. does this mean that a country can choose what it applies and what it does not apply from what is agreed in the accession treaty? and i'm talking about the lithuanian ignalina nuclear power plant, which is safe and lithuania doesn't want to shut it down. so maybe we don't have to go anywhere, we just don't close it.
member of the commission. mr president, i repeat, it is not for the commission to answer that question. i think that is a question that should be put to the polish authorities, as i sometimes do. when i meet the polish authorities, i ask them: are the intentions, the timetable and the objectives for joining the euro already defined? and i am not doing this merely out of curiosity, i am doing it because i am convinced that for an economy like poland - and for many other economies of eu member states that are not yet part of the single currency - it is very convenient to set that target date in order to steer macroeconomic policies and structural reforms in a consistent and coherent way towards meeting the conditions to prepare an economy to enjoy the full benefits of euro membership. since enlargement we have been experiencing very positive times in terms of the behaviour of the foreign exchange and financial markets, but this will not always be the case, and the financial markets, the rating agencies, the investors will also be asking the polish authorities these questions. it is not just you, the members of the european parliament, or us, the commissioners, who are going to raise this question, but it is also the economic operators, the observers and the investors who are going to raise it with increasing insistence. i therefore believe that it is good for everyone that the countries which are going to join the euro, not only out of obligation but above all out of conviction, and which are in the process of convergence, growth, modernisation, with a very important reform effort, should clarify this element of their strategy; first of all, because it is good for them, for their own interests.
member of the commission. mr president, it is true that the situation in the united kingdom - as i have said and as you have repeated - is not the same. the united kingdom has an opt-out clause and therefore the considerations i have made earlier in relation to the 12 countries which do not have an opt-out clause do not apply to it. but even with that clause, there will come a day - and i hope you and i will see it soon - when the british authorities, regardless of that clause, decide to prepare for the euro because they think it is good for the british economy. when is that day coming? if you ask me if i think it's going to be this year, i'm going to say no, i don't think it's going to be this year. my impression is that at the current stage of the business cycle of the british economy and the euro area economy, the pro-arguments are not going to increase in the coming months, they are not going to increase in the immediate future. but i always answer that question with a consideration. i believe that the circumstances which the british, like good pragmatists, analyse month after month about the pros and cons of membership of the euro will come to a point where they will change and make the british citizens, the british politicians and the city of london, to put three important interlocutors in this respect, see that it is in the interests of the british economy, at a certain point, to join the euro. i'm sure we'll see that moment, although if you want me to be honest, i think that moment will come after the next crisis.
i would also like to link the last two questions and ask you specifically, commissioner. i personally do not doubt the benefits of the euro, but in some countries that have not yet adopted it, public opinion is different. and what would be the effect of this if, say, in poland or lithuania or hungary or the czech republic, there were referendums against the euro? how would that change the moral situation, of course, but also the legal and practical situation?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a very important directive which should strengthen the freedom of workers to choose the right job and provide a further impetus to strengthen the competitiveness of the community's labour market. i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on the drafting of this document and hope that the majority of parliament will support it in the vote. i welcome your efforts, commissioner, to promote labour mobility and to remove all obstacles to it. this directive is a step towards activating the labour market, encouraging investment and competitiveness, and strengthening social guarantees for workers. member states of the community have the right to choose whether or not to have supplementary pension schemes. seven of the 10 members that joined in 2004 do not have them now, including lithuania. in some countries, supplementary pension schemes are not widespread and cover only a small proportion of employees. i hope that those countries that do not have an employer pension system will see the benefits of it, learn from their neighbours and apply it to their own people. in order to achieve the objective of the proposed directive, it is essential to encourage the expansion of supplementary pension schemes by employers and to allow the transfer of the accumulated funds both at national and community level. it is essential that employers have the right to choose those schemes and their means of transfer which justify their costs and do not result in financial losses. i agree with the rapporteur that this directive should be applied as widely as possible and that there should be no exceptions to the requirement to transfer rights. the flexible and efficient transfer of pensions provides an additional social guarantee for the worker and motivation to make the best use of his knowledge and skills. this in turn removes another obstacle to mobility and unlocks the potential of the labour market across the european union and increases its competitiveness.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, and the other colleagues who have drawn up the report on improving the transfer of supplementary pension rights. i voted in favour of this document because i believe it will have a very positive impact on most of the member states of the european union, especially the new eu members. in the baltic countries, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary and malta, supplementary pensions are not yet legal, while in the scandinavian countries and slovenia, on the contrary, most employees participate in such pension schemes. the call by our parliament to oblige the eu member states to gradually move towards easier transfers of pension rights should provide new impetus, in particular for the new member states, as well as for greece, italy and portugal, to reform their legal systems so that people's mobility within the european union is encouraged rather than penalized.
president. - the european union, which has always advocated the solution of conflicts by negotiation rather than force, is interested in putting a stop to the unlimited trade in deadly weapons. last year, as mentioned, military spending amounted to 900 billion euros, or 137 euros per person. we're back to the cold war in terms of military spending. almost half of that gigantic sum is spent by the united states on military equipment. the arms trade is growing rapidly, reaching almost 40 billion euros last year. the biggest exporters in recent years have been the us and russia, each accounting for 30% of the global arms trade, and the eu countries for a similarly large share of 20%. the most worrying is the flow of advanced weapons to conflict-torn regions, to unpredictable states. last year, 153 countries supported a united nations resolution on the process of developing an arms trade treaty. it is still difficult for all states to agree on a legally binding instrument providing for international regulation of arms imports and exports, but steps in this direction at the united nations are necessary. at the same time, it should be noted that states are the main actors in the fight against the irresponsible arms trade and the related violations of peace, security, development and human rights. the international community, and also the public in a country which uses the arms trade for dangerous and nefarious purposes, must put appropriate pressure on governments and parliaments.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union has set itself the objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice for its citizens. the european union cannot achieve this goal alone. the free movement of persons and goods, as well as europe's economic strength and democratic stability, have made the european union a target for illegal migration, organised crime, international drug trafficking and islamist terrorism. this means that we have to think about how we can develop the existing mechanisms and concepts in the field of justice and home affairs and, as you have just mentioned, mr rapporteur, how we can integrate them into the eu's external relations. i very much welcome the great interest shown by the european parliament in external relations in the field of justice and home affairs and in particular in the strategy mentioned, and the recommendations of the klich report provide important inspiration for discussions in the council on how the union's external relations policy in the field of justice and home affairs can be further developed and made even more effective. the strategy for the external dimension of justice and home affairs policy sets out in detail the objectives and approaches. cooperation with third countries includes, inter alia, the european union's support for institutions and capacity building. this is a long-term task, the progress of which will be discussed within the common institutions. the european union's immediate neighbours play a particularly important role in the security of the european union. the chapters on cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs in the action plans adopted jointly with the partner countries in the context of the european neighbourhood policy are therefore very detailed. among the countries of the european neighbourhood policy, ukraine enjoys a very special position not only because of its long common border with the eu. the eu has already made considerable progress in cooperation with ukraine in the fields of justice and home affairs. another important step was taken in luxembourg on 11 july, with the signing of the working agreement between frontex and the ukrainian border guards. the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission were also signed on 18 june. close cooperation with neighbouring regions is of particular importance for the union in the field of migration. on the basis of the overall approach to migration, the european union has greatly intensified its cooperation with the african and mediterranean countries over the past year and a half. the results are encouraging. the general affairs council decided a few days ago, on 18 june, to extend the overall approach to migration to the eu's eastern and south-eastern neighbouring regions. in addition to its immediate neighbours, cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs with its strategic partners, the united states and russia, is of particular importance to the european union. the report also deals with many aspects of this partnership. four roadmaps for common spaces were adopted with russia in may 2005: the common area of freedom, security and justice is also the area where russia believes the best progress has been made so far. this includes, of course, the agreement on visas and readmission, which entered into force at the beginning of june. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the protection of the rights of minorities. human rights issues have also played a central role with uzbekistan under the german presidency in the framework of the subcommittee on justice and home affairs. the last meeting with the united states focused on counter-terrorism, visa issues and data protection issues, including those related to the transfer of air passenger data. the german presidency has been working hard in recent days to conclude a new pnr agreement with the united states. the united states is not an easy negotiating partner either, as we know from the discussions. the german presidency also brought the two strategic partners, the us and russia, together to discuss common security challenges. these include counter-narcotics, counter-terrorism and border management. the report also focuses on strengthening police and judicial cooperation. the german presidency has, in my view, achieved something essential in improving cooperation within the european union. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, with a view to promoting the use of renewable energy sources in the eu. a political agreement was also reached on the incorporation of europol into the legal framework of the european union. the last six months have also seen a substantial strengthening of frontex. the framework decision on the exchange of information from criminal records between member states, mentioned in the klich report, should also be highlighted. the extent to which cooperation with third countries, such as russia, is possible also depends on the level of data protection there, which will be examined in each case. global threats and phenomena can only be effectively tackled through international cooperation. the strategy for the external dimensions in the field of justice and home affairs is therefore an indispensable element in the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. the council will continue to work closely and in a spirit of trust with the committee and the european parliament in implementing and developing this strategy.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all share the principle that the fundamental freedoms and rights of individuals cannot be limited by territorial boundaries. unfortunately, even organized crime and terrorism know no borders. that is why, as the rapporteur and the council representative have said, there is a growing link between the internal and the international dimensions of the european union's policies in the field of justice, security and freedom. this means working together towards a great political goal that goes in two directions: the first is to strengthen an internal security area guaranteeing citizens and residents of the european union rights and fundamental freedoms and harmonizing systems and rules for providing justice to those who seek it. the second is to ensure an international dimension which in some way provides a tool for the european union's foreign policy by strengthening the role of law and institutions, promoting democratic values beyond our borders and consolidating institutions. these are major foreign policy objectives for the european union, which are achieved through action in this field: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. these are two values that can and must go together. as has been said, there can be no contradiction between guaranteeing the security of citizens, of any human being, and at the same time guaranteeing them respect for fundamental freedoms. i believe that these common values should form the basis for agreements, relations and partnership with third countries. the promotion of human rights and democracy must therefore be an integral part of our policies when europe plays a role on the international scene. the report under consideration touches on fundamental issues which i share very much: strengthen democratic accountability, strengthen security and rights, guarantee citizens a higher level of protection against terrorism and organised crime, promote cross-border cooperation between police forces and judicial authorities and implement an effective european union immigration policy, with solidarity that must go beyond the borders of the european union, a european asylum policy for those in need of international protection and a hard and strong effort to counter human trafficking that exploits the desperation of immigrants. we are already doing all this. european immigration policy is getting richer. in recent weeks i have proposed to parliament and the council documents to open up the frontier of economic immigration, of circular immigration, to encourage mobility and thus to abandon the purely repressive aspect of immigration policies, although it is still essential to combat all forms of illegality. only a few days ago i proposed a green paper on asylum policies, which will allow this parliament and all the relevant actors to participate, so that at the beginning of next year i can present an action plan to achieve by 2010, as promised, a single european system on the status of political refugees. there are therefore many issues in immigration and asylum policy where europe already plays a role on the international stage. i believe that the euro-mediterranean dimension of europe must be further strengthened in this field, just as europe plays a role in the eastern dimension with regard to the balkans, the caucasus, relations with the russian federation and ukraine. we are already carrying out activities in this region in various fields, ranging from human trafficking to the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and women and the fight against cybercrime, another issue which obviously knows no borders and which must be addressed at international level. much has been said about terrorism. the fight against terrorism must of course continue by means of the rule of law, but it is also necessary to continue and strengthen international cooperation with the major players in the world. to this end, i very much appreciate the rapporteur's emphasis on the importance of decision-making processes which enable the european union to take its own decisions. i very much appreciate the reference to article 42 of the treaty, the so-called 'passerelle', but i think it is extremely important not to miss the opportunity offered by the next european council to discuss the future institutional framework of the european union and not to forget that in the field of security, justice and fundamental freedoms europe cannot remain blocked. europe must have the means to decide quickly, effectively and with greater democratic legitimacy, for example by giving a greater role to this parliament and to the court of justice of the european union. i would like to dedicate a final word to euro-atlantic cooperation. as the council representative said, we are having two difficult negotiations with the united states of america. one concerns the transfer of financial transaction data, which arose from the so-called swift case, and the other concerns the transfer of air passenger data to and from the united states. i hope that in both cases agreements can be reached soon which guarantee legal certainty - that is, a european legal framework and not reliance on bilateral relations - on the one hand, and a balance between the needs of the fight against terrorism and the guarantee of the confidentiality of personal data, both of which are important rights of individuals, on the other. i hope that the united states will accept the balanced approach which the german presidency, with the support of the commission, has been willing to give and that these agreements will be reached by the end of this month, before the german presidency leaves office. i have informed the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of the state of the negotiations. there are aspects which cannot be disclosed yet because the negotiations are still in progress, but i have taken care to keep the president and the heads of the parliamentary groups in this committee constantly informed of the outcome of the negotiations.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – madam president, this report was prepared under enhanced cooperation between the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs. i am pleased to inform my colleagues that mr klich and i have agreed on a comprehensive text which, i believe, reflects the views of both committees. i very much thank mr klich for his time, cooperation and flexibility. in addition to the many points made in the report, my main message to the council and to the commission would be as follows. firstly, it is obvious that the internal stability of the eu is to a degree dependent on external factors, such as the situation in neighbouring countries. secondly, no standard approach will work to improve the political situation in these countries, as the countries differ greatly in their economic, political and social realities. thirdly, i therefore stress the need for a tailor-made approach towards neighbouring countries in eu policy in the area of freedom, security and justice.
the president of the council. the problem was also the subject of a previous question and answer session. i can only say once again that this project is a private one and not a government one, and that if the companies implement this project, they must submit all the relevant documents, including in the countries where this pipeline will ultimately be laid. there, this examination shall be carried out in accordance with the relevant provisions.
minister! as we know, this gas pipeline has been strongly criticised by various politicians, experts and scientists, particularly from the scandinavian and baltic countries and poland. perhaps the council could help bring together the relevant experts and politicians to discuss the problem together and perhaps find a modus vivendi.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. it is primarily the responsibility of those who plan and implement this project to inform the countries concerned accordingly. this is done by submitting a request. this proposal will certainly be followed by an examination in all possible areas, in particular as regards the environment and safety. i expect there will be corresponding discussions. but first of all, this is entirely the initiative of those who are involved in this project, and these are private companies and not state companies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. now russia is also conducting an environmental impact assessment of the project, saying that the weapons that are on the seabed are not dangerous. doesn't it seem illogical to you that a private contractor would do an impact assessment?
the president of the council. we all know that there is often a gap between the goals we set for ourselves and the results we achieve. but we should be glad that an important first step has been taken and it will take the energy of all concerned to put this into effect by the end of june. this is also an example of how it is right and important to discuss matters of the constitutional treaty. but it has always been the approach of the german presidency that citizens must also see the europe of projects, of results. the forthcoming roaming regulation is an example of europe's ability to act and a project for european citizens. we all know - and i believe in the european parliament's initiatives - that there will be further discussions on further changes.
the president of the council. the european neighbourhood policy action plan is a political document which expresses a political agreement between the european union and the individual partner countries on an agenda of political, economic and sectoral reforms, and which sets out short and medium-term priorities for action. they shall be adopted by the association or cooperation council between the european union and the partner country concerned. as regards the eastern partner countries, action plans have been concluded with five of the six countries concerned under the european neighbourhood policy. the first action plan with ukraine was adopted on 21 february 2005 and the second with the republic of moldova on 22 february 2005. this was followed by armenia, azerbaijan and georgia, with which individual action plans were adopted on 14 november 2006. no such action plan has been adopted with belarus, as the eu does not have contractual relations with that country. belarus will only benefit from the full benefits of the european neighbourhood policy when it has established a democratic form of government following free and fair elections. the following action plans have been adopted with the southern partner countries under the european neighbourhood policy: israel on 11 april 2005, the palestinian authority on 4 may 2005, jordan on 2 june 2005, morocco on 22 june 2005, tunisia on 4 july 2005, lebanon on 19 january 2007 and egypt on 6 march 2007 were also granted preferential access to the union market. there is no action plan for algeria yet, and no action plans have been adopted for libya and syria, as the eu has no contractual relations with these countries. the european union will provide a total of €12 billion in ec funds for the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy over the period 2007-13, representing a real increase of 32%. following consultations with eu member states, the commission decided on the allocation of these funds and adopted strategy papers and indicative programmes covering countries, regions and cross-border programmes for the period 2007-2010, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1638/2006 of 24 october 2006 laying down general provisions establishing a european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. as regards the country programmes under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi), the multiannual amounts for the period 2007-2010 are as follows: the european union is also supporting the efforts of the european union to develop a common foreign and security policy, to promote the development of the union's external relations and to promote the development of the union's external relations. in the case of libya and the palestinian authority, it should be noted that no strategy papers or indicative programmes have been adopted, as medium-term programming is not possible. the allocations mentioned are therefore only seat numbers.
mr minister, thank you for your detailed reply. i wanted to clarify. the implementation of this policy is based on the conclusion of certain agreements, action plans with specific countries: the european union and ukraine, the european union and georgia. are the immediate neighbouring member states involved in the preparation of these action plans?
the berlin declaration of 25 march this year, adopted by the european parliament, states: 'european integration has shown that we have learned from a history of bloody conflicts and suffering'. i believe that this is the case, and one of the proofs of this is the document we are discussing today. the incitement of hatred and violence, the public support for, the refusal to recognise or the grossly debased character of, crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are among the offences addressed in the framework decision. the framework decision is limited to crimes committed on the grounds of race, colour, religion, descent or national or ethnic origin. however, it does not address similar crimes committed on other grounds, i.e. where the basis of hatred and violence is political convictions or belonging to a social group, the social position of a group of persons, such as crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. i believe that the time has come for a supplementary document to address the incitement to hatred and violence, the public approval of crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes against a group of persons defined by criteria other than those i have mentioned, such as race, colour, religion, origin or national or ethnic origin, such as social status or political beliefs, the refusal to recognise or the gross belittling of these crimes. criminal liability could also be provided for in these cases. the european commission's initiative to prepare a public debate at european level on the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes and those who publicly support them, grossly distorting or belittling them, is to be welcomed and supported. on the basis of these considerations, a proposal for a framework decision on these offences could also be submitted after two to three years.
president, i congratulate the rapporteur, martine roure, on her courage, and i congratulate even more germany, which has made the adoption of a decision on combating racism and xenophobia a priority of its presidency. the idea of the european union is based on tolerance, trust and the peaceful coexistence of peoples. unfortunately, recent reports of racist and xenophobic attacks have not diminished, with the number approaching 10 million per year. racist, xenophobic and anti-semitic elements are not only used by extremist parties, but also by more solid mass parties, their leaders. and in this room, there is often a sense of extreme nationalism and xenophobia in the language of the national parliaments. i agree with the rapporteurs that in a culture based on rights and freedoms, criminal law is a measure of last resort, the use of which should be kept to a minimum. however, we will not avoid a tightening of the criminal policy in this area. i fully support the view expressed by commissioner frattini that the motives of a racist offence should increase the penalty. education, dialogue between different faiths and cultures, and a sober and reflective look at the past are also priorities. if you start to explain who's more tragic, who's more painful, when you feel the most tolerant, you're on the path to the loss of tolerance, to the loss of trust in each other. the issue of restoring historical justice is particularly sensitive for the new countries of the european union. it is time to try to reconcile the approaches of the old and the new countries of the eu to the tragedies and the painful events of the 20th century. this should be done without feeling that we are the only ones who can impose our views on other nations. the main objective is not to heal but to heal wounds, to learn from history and to prevent the resurgence of racism and xenophobia.
dear prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, nazism and communism are two sides of the same river. nazism is studied in detail by scientists, politicians, known and condemned by the world community. germany has also contributed to this by understanding and acknowledging its historical mistakes. the second most heinous crime of the last century, communism, is one that we know little about, we barely discuss, and that is why we have not yet recognized it as a crime against humanity on an international scale. nazism and the holocaust killed 20 million people. communism has claimed the lives of 100 million people of various nationalities. i support the council framework decision and the statement adopted with it, in which the council condemns the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. i call on the member states to continue their work in exposing the crimes of the communist regime, to give it due weight and to complete the framework agreement. i call on the european parliament to initiate a debate on the crimes of communism and to contribute to the recognition of communism as a crime against humanity.
author. – madam president, the council has recently recognised that no tangible results have been achieved on human rights in cuba, despite the goodwill shown by the council in 2005. the majority of us, if not all of us, are in agreement that it is necessary for cuba to launch a process of political transition to multi-party democracy. this is not the eurocentric position our opponents like to use against us but is about the universality and indivisibility of human rights, including civil, political and economic rights, in which we believe. today we again urge the council and commission to continue to take whatever action is necessary to demand the release of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience. it is important to give our unconditional support and full encouragement to the launching of a peaceful process of transition to a multi-party democracy in cuba. we have examples to follow. twenty years ago the present eu member states from eastern and central europe were in many ways – including as regards their human rights situation – in a similar situation to that which cuba is in now. i hope that we will soon witness major changes in cuba and i look forward to that very special day.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the difficult task of reconciling a significantly reduced seven-year health budget with the growing expectations of eu citizens. coordinated community action in this area would significantly increase the efficiency of the funds used. the programme must now be adopted as soon as possible in order to absorb at least the 2008 budget. in the enlarged european union, disparities in healthcare have emerged across countries. the programme in question should contribute to their reduction. every eu citizen has the right to quality medical care in any country of the union. particularly important is the participation of the new eu countries in european projects. i would also stress the importance of preventive projects that reduce the impact of risk factors and improve public health. prevention is always cheaper than cure, especially in this case, where resources are dwindling and needs are growing.
on behalf of the uen group first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his constructive and realistic approach in preparing this report, with a very deep understanding of a complex phenomenon such as the process of liberalising the electricity and gas markets in the european union. i would like to draw attention to and mention what i believe is an important point: the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets cannot be achieved in isolation from the development of external policy, because the dependence of the gas and electricity markets on third countries and their companies is increasing all the time, and we are well aware of the possible consequences, and therefore very strong liberalisation steps and measures need to be coordinated with the development of external energy policy. i would also like to stress that this is not a one-sided process, it is very complex, and we must indeed make very clear that 20 of the 27 member states have not yet transposed those legislative acts into national law and that our new steps in market liberalisation must be backed up by additional measures to implement what has already been adopted.
i want to thank mr. vidal-quadras for a really good report. i would like to point out a couple of things, though. first of all, i propose to emphasise more the importance of priority energy interconnections for the creation of the eu internal energy market. until lithuania and the other baltic states and poland are energetically connected with the rest of western europe, we cannot talk about any internal market! furthermore, the financing of the four priority energy interconnectors is not entirely clear. i therefore propose that sufficient funds be secured for the smooth implementation of this plan and that all additional funding options be explored if necessary. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make it clear that the creation of a single european energy market must be guided by economic logic and the principle of solidarity. the alternative connections proposed by russia are politically motivated! russia's plan to build a baltic sea gas pipeline to germany bypassing the baltic states and poland is both 30% more expensive than the baltic states-poland 'guardian pipeline' project and much more dangerous. such implementation of the russian plan will further isolate the baltic countries, which is why i propose that the nord stream project be removed from the list of projects of european interest!
for the alde group i would like to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur for their proposals, but i would like to stress that these proposals should be interpreted as merely the beginning of a debate. i do not know whether the internet can be described as a critical infrastructure according to the definition used by the commission. it's hard for me to say whether blocking a website in one country means that it's not a critical infrastructure anymore, because you can only really block the website of a big bank that has its headquarters in, say, germany or france or the uk, and that's felt by the entire population of europe. we are talking about consolidation of the financial sector, consolidation of economic activities, and finally consolidation of hotel chains. so we have to talk about the fact that critical infrastructure has moved into the virtual space, and i think estonia is the first country that has encountered elements of cyberwarfare. i am very sorry that this has received little attention and now it seems to be becoming more of a concern for the commissioner responsible for communications, but i would say that the emphasis should be on security, because it is difficult to imagine what life would be like for european citizens without the internet. whether the internet is european or whether it is national -- we can't say that, it's a global network, and of course, defining how to protect that network from that attack, which can happen at any moment, is quite difficult, and the level of debate itself has to be completely different. we're talking about physical infrastructure now, and obviously the tragic images are exciting, but life is becoming more and more virtual, and that's something to look out for.
i regret that we will not be opening the postal market in 2009. this will affect both consumers and service providers. i am glad to see that this topic is already widely discussed in lithuania. i hope that the postal market in my country will be opened much earlier than in 2013. i agree that the future of universal services must not be determined solely by market forces or the need for regulatory measures. however, i do not think that temporary funding is necessary, especially if it is provided from public funds. it is feared that the opening of the postal market will put many people out of work. however, studies and experience in other countries show that postal services expand as the market opens up. most jobs will remain. jobs will be created in the companies of new operators. i shall vote in favour of this document, which, while timid, is a step forward.
for the alde group as colleagues have already noted, the european financial market is a world leader and we should continue to implement policies that will allow it to remain a world leader. what kind of politics are we seeing, liberals? first of all, we need an effective policy that is open to innovation and new products. priority should be given to self-regulatory measures that do not create barriers to the emergence of new financial products. regulation is applied to ensure a level playing field for both large and small enterprises. i would like to stress the words 'small businesses' in particular. the commission very often looks only at the interests of large companies. we also want proper supervision. proper supervision does not mean supervision in detail, but supervision based on certain principles. in order to ensure that these principles are applied in the same way in different countries, we would like to see more attention from national governments, as well as from the commission and the members of parliament themselves, to the need for more cooperation between national supervisory authorities, both on a sectoral basis and between themselves. we would also like to see an assessment of the challenges of financial market consolidation, of systemic risk and to make it clear to the consumer who will ultimately pay for the failure of one or another institution, a major european institution. we also want a financial market that respects the interests of retail consumers the interests of the million ordinary people in the eu. what should that market be? the retail market must be based on an open structure to ensure that a wide variety of financial products is available, that there is no single bank product in one country, and that the diversity and innovative potential of the eu market is equally accessible to all. we want to develop certain products for use at eu level, so that labour can move freely from one country to another. this includes various pension products, mortgage lending. we also want a cost-efficient market. what does 'price appropriate to the retail consumer' mean? it doesn't mean regulation, it means transparency. there must be a clear structure of the cost of services, of financial services, so that each retail consumer can choose the right package for him according to his capabilities and his conditions, and we expect that in this way the european financial market will remain the most competitive in the world.
the document prepared by mr protasievičius addresses two important issues: 1) non-standard employment contracts, 2) the concept of worker. there are cases of discrimination against workers in the context of non-standard employment contracts. they are not provided with adequate social guarantees. however, flexibility helps companies to adapt to market changes and helps employees to balance their personal and professional lives. many lithuanians work in the uk in construction, having registered as self-employed. in fact, they work for construction companies like other workers. however, they do not have equal employment, social and other guarantees. the definition of an employee must be based on the actual situation at the workplace and during the work. our aim is to create an efficient labour market where people can find the right job and companies can find the right employees. the document under discussion today is a contribution to that end.
member of the commission. firstly, on transnistria and moldova: we have just had an important dialogue with president voronin in person, and i would like to tell you that we are working very closely with president voronin, of course within the framework of our neighbourhood policy. we know that talks have taken place between voronin and president putin, but it is important that this is reflected in the 5+2 talks that we are having. we are making every effort to give moldova all the support we can. there are still human rights issues to be addressed - i have done so personally, both in a letter to president voronin and directly in our talks - but we must support this country, which is the poorest country in europe, and we do so with our programmes. as for the tensions in the south caucasus, it is true that there are greater tensions. we have repeatedly stressed that a solution to the conflicts in south ossetia, abkhazia and, of course, nagorno-karabakh is only possible through increased and intensified political dialogue. we are in very close contact with the various special representatives of the high representative and have put the neighbourhood policy at the service of creating the right environment to find a solution. while there was an opportunity in nagorno-karabakh, which the president has unfortunately not yet taken, and we all hope that there may be a breakthrough, and while we see some improvements in south ossetia, on the other hand, we see increasingly serious problems in abkhazia and we must be particularly vigilant here.
member of the commission. i would like to say, mr president, that we are dealing with different countries. on the one hand, the new eu member states bulgaria and romania are making a relevant contribution to the joint formulation of eu migration policy. but we also have other countries, of course, such as turkey, the applicant country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. relations with some of these countries are part of the neighbourhood policy, and here we are dealing with two areas in particular: on the one hand, certain visa facilitations, but on the other hand also the question of readmission agreements to prevent illegal migration or to stop it as far as possible.
i wanted to ask you about the closure of units 3 and 4 of the bulgarian kozloduy. in view of the current energy situation in europe and the world, and despite the commitment made in the accession treaty, do you think it is appropriate to close a cost-effective, well-functioning and safe power plant or unit?
member of the commission. according to the euratom treaty, we must deliver an opinion. we definitely will require all the necessary data from the companies which would like to build the nuclear reactor and, in our opinion, we will give the matter due thought on the basis of the information that we receive from the authorities.
member of the commission. unfortunately, i do not see the link with liberalisation and how it would influence the position of a member state. a much stronger instrument of influence is the high level group on the treatment of safety and nuclear waste, because this is the way to proceed and to gather together all the member countries – those that have nuclear power and those that do not – and to really push these issues forward. the liberalisation of the market will not have any effect, because nuclear energy is a part of national energy mix and each country would like to make its own decisions. it is a highly sensitive political issue, so i believe that market liberalisation will have no influence on this type of decision. countries that normally oppose the use of nuclear power will not change their mind. those countries that use nuclear power continue to use it. therefore, i believe that the best way to promote the directive is to work in a high level group of all 27 member states and, in this way, to establish a broader consensus on establishing higher nuclear safety standards and better treatment of nuclear waste.
i wanted to ask you about the possibility of creating a black sea dimension. we have a northern dimension, where russia has been successfully integrated and agreements are being respected (and sometimes not respected). could we use these elements of the northern dimension for the black sea and at the same time have a complex approach to all the problems?
member of the commission. the commission carries out its duties very responsibly, and we really monitor the level of stocks and the arrangement. at this stage, we have no evidence that greece is in breach of legislation on stocks. if we receive new information that greece is in breach of that legislation, we will launch infringement proceedings immediately. at the same time, it would be wrong to equate stocks with higher prices, because stocks have a very minimal influence on the price level of petroleum products.
member of the commission. since the beginning of the disruption of oil supplies via the druzhba pipeline, the european commission has asked the russian side to provide transparency and information about envisaged steps to remedy the situation. this transparency was repeatedly requested by letter and in several bilateral meetings up to the highest level, including the last eu-russia summit in may of summer this year. the commission notes the resolution of the russian government of 21 may 2007 to go ahead with the preparation for the construction of a pipeline from unecha to the primorsk terminal on the baltic, a development which could presumably lead to reduced deliveries via the druzhba pipeline. the possibility of further increases in oil exports via primorsk underline the importance of a strong legislative framework for maritime safety and environmental risks related to the tanker traffic and effective implementation of that framework. the baltic sea is a focus of particular attention, its establishment of traffic lines, monitoring of single hub tanker traffic by the european maritime safety agency – emsa. in the dialogue on transport, it has been agreed that maritime safety is one of the most important subjects. the commission considers that pipeline transport of oil is preferable to tanker transport when there is maritime safety or environmental risks. such risks need to be taken into account by investors and promoters. in march 2007 the european council endorsed an energy policy for europe containing an extensive action plan which sets out the strategy. the strategy should be assessed as a whole. security of supply should be achieved by advances in several parts of the action plan, notably the establishment and functioning of the internal energy market and solidarity arrangement between the member states within the market. these also include the diversification of energy, making an effort in terms of energy efficiency and last, but not least, work towards a strong single voice in external energy relations. the network of energy security correspondents set up in may has just started preparing its work but it will be a very good instrument in the future in assessing the external supply risks.
thank you, commissioner, for your comprehensive answer. in lithuania, the people and also the government very much appreciate the efforts of the commission but, nevertheless, the druzhba pipeline does not function. i am afraid to say that the russian side is not willing to cooperate. what is the role of the network of energy security correspondents in this story?
the commission's vice-president mr president, i thank each and every one of the speakers for the sensible comments they have made. i would like to say a few words, however, on a point which, to my surprise, has not really caught the attention of parliament. this is the separation between the management of railway infrastructure and the provision of transport services. it is this separation which gives competition its full scope. we really need to ensure non-discriminatory access to facilitate the entry of new entrants into the market. this is an important point. i'd like to answer a few questions. in referring to convenience, our aim was simply to explain that rail transport, which is undoubtedly the best solution for long distances, must be able to be supplemented by local transport, which in some cases can only be provided by road, as mr jarzembowski said. the idea is not to take something away from the railway, but to allow it to take its full place. yes, that's very clear! i would like to say to mr navarro in particular that we must not be mistaken about the intention. the intention is really to make this modal transfer, which i am very attached to, as you are. and i must say that everything we do, whether it is financing infrastructure through the transeuropean networks, the interoperability that the ertms and etcs systems will enable us to achieve, the cross-acceptance of rolling stock or the promotion of freight traffic on european corridors, all these achievements are aimed at achieving the greatest possible modal shift. i believe that our approach is clear on this point. i would like to confirm to you, mrs griesbeck, that the commission intends to present guidelines on state aid in the railway sector before the end of the year. i would also like to confirm to mr jarzembowski that the communication on train noise is scheduled for autumn this year. i can't say more at the moment; we're working on it. there are certainly other questions that would deserve an answer. at any rate, i want you to know that i really listened very carefully to everything that was said by both of you. i consider the work done by mr cramer and his committee to be a work which informs our commission. i would like to repeat that what we want are fair conditions of competition between and within the modes, which will actually make it possible to develop this modal transfer, which, i repeat, is very important to us, particularly for environmental reasons and to reduce congestion on our road network. for all the reasons you can imagine, we need the railroad now more than ever. i must say that i work towards this every day with great determination. i have also noticed that with the inauguration of betuwe in the netherlands there is a real desire in europe to give rail its full role. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this modal shift is a real priority in europe. governments must also agree to make it their priority.
the notifier. this future regulation should replace the three regulations currently in force, which constitute the third set of provisions for the internal air transport market. those regulations lay down the procedures for issuing licences to air carriers and for their withdrawal, the principle of free access for community air carriers to community air routes and the liberalisation of air fares. the introduction of the third package of provisions has led to an unprecedented development of the european air transport sector: the old monopolies have disappeared, a cabotage system has been established and competition has been intensified in all markets, especially in the area of prices, to the benefit of consumers. the european aviation market, which is heavily regulated and based on bilateral agreements, has become a highly competitive single market. naturally, after a few years of application of the third set of provisions, some provisions are obsolete and others are badly applied and therefore need to be revised, reconsidered or simply abolished. the proposal calls for the three regulations to be adapted to make them easier to apply, to simplify the legal bases, to repeal outdated parts of the regulation and to introduce new, stricter requirements. i think the commission's proposal is logical and i agree that there is not only a sense but also a purpose and a need to review the existing regulations. however, the opinion of the committee on transport, which i certainly support, is that some important points should be clarified. i would like to mention a few of them: rent. member states have different practices in leasing contracts. this could distort the market and lead to social and aviation safety problems. therefore, new general requirements should undoubtedly be established. the rules proposed in article 13 are too strict and do not take into account the characteristics of certain airlines, in particular the seasonality of the flight. it would therefore be good to find a logical compromise between social interests and safety and at the same time improve the performance of airlines. i believe that the compromise reached in the transport committee can help to solve this problem. transparency of prices. we support the commission's intention to prohibit the publication and advertising of fares which do not include any surcharges, premiums, taxes or fees. i believe that the airlines' obligation to publish final prices must be clearly stated. we have also found a compromise here which reflects the needs of consumers. social features. the proposals on social aspects put forward by my colleagues from the other groups are, in my view, premature, without having fully considered the possible consequences of adopting them at this stage. the commission is therefore asked to prepare a study on the basis of which these issues can be regulated without creating obstacles to improving the competitiveness of the aviation industry. the safety of passengers. the commission proposal does not provide for any clear mechanism to ensure that passengers are not affected by the consequences of the bankruptcy of an airline, such as not being compensated for cancelled flights or being left to fend for themselves abroad. we therefore consider that the regulation should include provisions on passenger protection (amendments 15 and 16). the public service obligation and regional airports. in my view, any formulation of the definition of 'regional airports' in the context of public service obligations will inevitably include airports located in economically more advantageous regions, while airports located in regions requiring economic or social support may not fall within this concept. as the public service obligation is thus limited to airports serving regions with economic and social problems, i would suggest that the difficult-to-define concept of regional airport be deleted from this document. in addition to the above, a number of definitions and conditions should be clarified to avoid misunderstandings or misapplication. air services within the community. in contrast to the issues discussed above, where we proposed a number of amendments, we believe that the proposed extension of the commission's powers to deal with issues relating to the provision of air services within the community should be supported. the commission can negotiate certain rights more effectively than member states individually and should therefore be able to do so. this was demonstrated by the agreement with russia on transit flights over siberia. it is therefore proposed to adopt the wording of article 15 proposed by the commission. this is the essence of short-term services.
i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr kaminski, for producing what i consider to be a very important and necessary report. ukraine has played and will play a very important role not only in economic terms but also in geopolitical terms. the stability of europe will depend on what ukraine is and with whom. we need only look at history to see that. if europe wants to create real stability and security, europe must give ukraine its due attention. europe needs ukraine, and ukraine, without a doubt, needs europe. we must reach out to the people of ukraine, we must help them to remove the fears of soviet and russian propaganda, we must undo the effects of the cold war, and ukraine must become a reliable, stable, secure, genuine european state. and to do that, we need more multi-faceted programs, we need more contacts, we need to send very clear signals to the people of ukraine, because there are forces that are frightening the people of ukraine, europe, that are fueling mistrust and tension. europe must overcome this.
i congratulate the rapporteur and fully support the fact that the time has come for a new eu-ukraine agreement. i'm sure ukraine will not deviate from the european path. but the upheavals, like the conflicts and tensions this spring, are not bringing ukraine any closer to its goal. i would support the proposed eu-black sea community initiative, which could have ukraine, together with turkey, as the main axis of attraction for russia and other states. the memory of cooperation between the baltic sea countries and the northern dimension would also be very helpful. there has been a lot of talk about changing the direction of the odessa-brussels pipeline and bringing it closer to the eu, but it is time to get down to business. i support the proposed amendment which stresses that the success of ukraine's integration into the eu institutions will depend on reforms not only in ukraine but also in the eu itself. whether they wanted it or not, poland, the uk and some of the other countries that had their hands in the ring negotiating the reform treaty were also acting against ukraine's unwavering aspirations to join the eu.
i support the resolution and sympathize with the 4 million plus iraqis who have been forced to flee their homes - that is more people than in my own country, lithuania. the number of refugees is growing, and half of them have been forced to flee abroad. things are not getting better in iraq, so refugees are condemned to poor vegetation, they usually don't work, and their children grow up destitute. for these reasons, terrorist organizations have been successful in recruiting followers. humanitarian aid to refugees is a pittance compared to the arms spending of the united states and the united kingdom that fueled the iraq war. the $60 million in aid from donors is a drop in the bucket. this year, the european union will receive some 40,000 refugees from iraq - twice as many as last year - while the united states has taken in only a few dozen iraqis this year. it would be good if the leaders of the united states and the united kingdom, when they come to iraq and the neighboring countries, could see firsthand the suffering of refugees. maybe then they'd act differently.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before answering each of the questions, i would like to remind you what eures is. it is a system, a unique system, whose advantage lies in the combination of a network of over 800 qualified advisers and an effective portal allowing easy access to and interactive exchange of information. since 2006, the eures portal has offered access to all job vacancies in the european union as well as to the national public employment services of the member states of the european economic area and switzerland, in 25 european languages. the portal provides access to more than 1 200 000 offers on average. eures advisers also provide assistance to workers and their families who plan to take advantage of mobility opportunities. now, allow me to answer your questions in order. firstly, to your first question on the extension of the eures portal to the needs of third country nationals. as you know, eures was originally set up for citizens of the european economic area, to help them find work in a country other than their own, thereby enhancing mobility. the commission is now planning to make eures accessible to workers from other countries, thus meeting their expectations and acting in the union's interest. in view of the ageing and demographic decline of europe, it is necessary to expect a shortage of european labour in sectors that are crucial to our economy and our lifestyle in the near future. in addition, eures could help to address migration from third countries more globally. as a result, a new focus has been introduced in the eures guidelines for the period 2007-2010 which provides for the possibility of extending the scope of information offered through the eures network to the needs of workers from third countries. following the commission's action plan on legal migration, we want to explore in more detail the possibilities of extending the eures services in this direction. firstly, the existing information in the sections on 'living and working conditions' could be supplemented by information specifically needed for third-country nationals wishing to enter the european market, and of course in the languages of those third countries. your second question concerns the inclusion of seasonal or short-term temporary work offers in eures. it is true that the first analyses we had available for eures did not show these needs and the level of demand for short-term work abroad. the available statistics covered only a minimum period of one year and did not take into account demand for seasonal work or traineeships in enterprises. however, following the recommendation of the european parliament in connection with the increase in the eures budget for 2007, a study was carried out within the framework of this system to assess the need and feasibility of introducing such a service. the reaction of a number of countries has been positive. some partners have even gained experience with this type of offer in the tourism, construction and agricultural markets. in the future, the development of the eures service will be systematically considered in the development of the eures development plans. on your third question, the commission is also convinced that the professional and geographical mobility of workers can contribute to improving the functioning of the labour market in europe and that it is therefore important to continue to support and promote such mobility. to this end, the commission is developing an action plan, building on the results of the 2006 european year of workers' mobility, to promote mobility within the european labour market and to remove the main obstacles to its development. one part of this action plan proposes to strengthen the role of eures, making it the main instrument for supporting and promoting the mobility of workers within the european union. three main lines will be pursued with the aim of: 1. improving the strategic dimension of eures by promoting the dissemination of information useful for analysing mobility flows and changes affecting european labour markets; 2. to improve the quality of eures services by offering a more integrated service to mobile workers and their families; 3. increase the number of people using eures by developing links with other providers of similar services and, where appropriate, private organisations and gradually making the system available to workers from third countries, as i explained in my answer to your first question. your fourth and final question concerns eures crossborder projects and the assistance that they can provide in the context of the abolition of transitional measures by the member states. in eures, a great deal of weight has always been placed on solving specific problems arising in cross-border relations. today we have 20 crossborder cooperation projects, the most recent being the one between the czech republic and germany and another between slovakia and hungary. in addition, 14 feasibility studies are currently under way to find new projects and services, either between the new member states or between the 'old' and 'new' member states. although, ladies and gentlemen, i think it would be appropriate to abandon the idea of "old" and "new" because certainly spain is in a sense a new state, as is greece, and i could go on. i don't know how much longer we'll have to use this distinction between equal members of the european union. but in any case, 14 feasibility studies are being carried out to find new projects. these are practical projects to help citizens, employers or cross-border workers in their daily lives. the partners may be trade unions, employers' organisations, public employment services or any other actor at local or regional level. through these projects, we want to facilitate exchanges of workers between partner countries and help to speed up the implementation of the necessary steps in the framework of transitional measures. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasise one important element in the work of eures, namely the reduction of the possibility of social dumping. because it's obvious that people who come to another country with good information are in a much stronger position than if they don't have that information. in this respect too, eures is a unique and highly effective tool.
for the alde group the free movement of persons is one of the four conditions for the existence and successful functioning of the eu's single market. the common labour market, which has not yet been created, would enable jobseekers to acquire new skills and experience, to choose a job and to fulfil their potential, and employers to have a wider choice of workers and to take care of the shortage of specialists. eures is an instrument, a network of european employment services, whose task is to create a single labour market by facilitating the movement of workers within the eu, the countries of the european economic area and switzerland, not to mention third countries. the network brings together public employment services, trade unions, employers' organisations and regional and local authorities. the activities are coordinated by the european commission. the eures network provides information, advice and counselling to potential mobile workers on employment opportunities abroad, living, working and learning conditions in the european economic area countries, and helps employers who wish to recruit workers from other countries. the eures portal was launched in 2006 and offers one million job vacancies across europe. it currently has 8 000 employers and 184 000 jobseekers enrolled. although the right to move freely to live and work abroad is one of the fundamental rights of european citizens enshrined in the treaty of rome, many of the old member states still apply transitional periods to those that joined in 2004 and 2007. germany plans to extend the transitional period of labour market opening until 2011 on the grounds of high unemployment in the country. we hear from some sources about labour shortages in the eu, from others about high unemployment. eures provides one million jobs and at the same time limits the movement of labour. what is the efficiency of eures ? i will give you an example of my country, lithuania. in four years, 34 000 workers left lithuania according to official statistics, compared with only 405 in the two and a half years of eures services. the media constantly publish horrific stories about migrant slavery in italy, spain, the united kingdom, where workers from new countries are brought in and subjected to inhuman working and living conditions. is this not a flaw in the eures system? people are not sufficiently informed about working and living conditions, and do not know where to turn when problems arise. activities in 2006 showed that new obstacles to the free movement of labour arose, namely practical problems, housing, language, the work of a partner or spouse and psychological difficulties in adjusting to the country and in anticipating the possibilities of returning home. it is good to see that the commission will start implementing a mobility action plan in 2007 to help address the challenges that have arisen. a one-stop shop for information on geographical and occupational mobility would also contribute to this.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is certainly yes. we are committed, and i am personally committed, to ensuring that all international instruments see europe as an actor and as a protagonist. the commission cannot do everything on its own, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the instrument you have mentioned, but also other concrete initiatives. i could propose a directive to criminalise the exploiters, or rather the slave-owners, who use and exploit the victims of trafficking, but if the member states do not give their consent, if the large network of small, large and mediumsized enterprises in europe does not support us, these instruments will be much less effective. so my call is for a common work.
vice-president of the commission. it is a very important question. we had quite a good experience during the 2006 football world cup in germany. we worked together in very close cooperation with all the member states, police authorities and german authorities. we were able to prevent at least 3 000 or 4 000 young victims from being trafficked in germany during that period of time. we are ready to do the same. we are preparing a report, which will be published very shortly, on the very important results of european cooperation. you may know that at least 12 member states have been cooperating in adopting measures to block and to control at the borders suspect people who are trying to illegally bring in young victims of this trafficking. we are ready to do the same next year in cooperation with germany, austria and switzerland, which will also host championships. germany did a very good job on this.
the phenomenon of people being brought in and employed under conditions of coercion and deprived of freedom of movement and of any activity, where it is practically impossible to leave the workplace as from a place of imprisonment, is a very old phenomenon. we know this from the media and from individual studies. does the commission have aggregated information, statistical information on which countries this has occurred and does it not seem to you that this is criminal law? a member state shall not be entitled to refuse to punish an offender who deprives another of his liberty.
member of the commission. we had and we have an increasing interest, especially now we have reached the current stage of the proposal itself, because at the beginning this was more of an idea or a concept and now it is a concrete text. it has not yet been finalised formally – we hope to do that by the end of this year – but the messages from individual businesses or business organisations have been more and more concrete and positive, in the sense of possibly deeper involvement in the future. we had talks with the european round table of industrialists, business europe, eurochambers and many other associations, like the european association of research and technology organisations (earto). i really can say that the messages were more and more concrete. of course, nobody writes a blank cheque or makes commitments in advance, and what we do should not replace what is going on in a positive sense in some centres or in partnerships, but the eit should create still further momentum, incentives and scope for a more innovation-friendly europe union. that is the intention and this is a shared responsibility.
the idea of the european institute of technology is to create innovations that will help to increase the competitiveness of the european union. if large, large private corporations participate in the institute, will the innovation be available to other market participants? what about the member states? shouldn't both the member states and the european community be the main funders in the european institution?
the battle against alcoholism is as old as time itself. in some countries, the use of a state of emergency and various bans have not been successful. however, the communication from the european commission 'an eu strategy to support member states in reducing alcohol-related harm' is a very important initiative. the commission, having taken stock of the experience of the member states and identified problems common to all countries, has proposed priorities for reducing alcohol-related harm. the implementation of high-priority priorities such as the protection of young people, children and the unborn, the prevention of drink driving and others, is likely to make our society more responsible, healthier and more moderate. i want to emphasize the high risk of alcohol consumption in young people. sadly, the drinking age is getting younger in many lands. that's why good experience is so important. i would suggest linking the experience of reducing alcohol-related harm to young people with eu youth programmes. the development and implementation of such programmes would help to occupy the leisure time of young people and to discourage their misuse of alcohol.
for the alde group i would like to answer mr goebbels' question immediately as to why the european central bank has allocated more money than the american central bank. because the european union is now the largest economy in the world. this is a big challenge for all of us. what surprised me and saddened me was that on the same day, the oecd and the european commission actually had different assessments of the possible consequences of financial problems in the market. this means that the european commission should probably refine its economic assessment models, especially since they are likely to be based on mathematical methods. this is worrying because economic policy is difficult to predict and these instruments need to be very flexible. what should we do now as we face new challenges? i would not like to comment on the problems that have arisen now, which my friends and colleagues have already done well. i just want to make one point. first, that the crisis was caused by aggressive monetary policies outside the european union in an attempt to solve the problems of the internet bubble. this means that we cannot influence many decisions in third countries. we can strengthen dialogue, cooperation with supervisors, but we as the european union face a dilemma: there is a global merger of financial institutions and our market may no longer be a single market. we will have a transatlantic market in securities; perhaps we will have a different market in insurance. this means that we have to decide whether we see europe as a single market and we have to demand that all contracts be signed on a european scale. can we agree to pilot projects where one of our markets is playing a global game on its own? this is something we all need to agree on. otherwise, crisis management will be very difficult to implement. i want to emphasize something else. financial markets are undergoing a transformation. we ourselves have recognised the role of non-banks in the sepa directive. you have to accept that islamic banks are emerging, various funds are emerging, and eventually trading networks are entering the financial markets. so we need regulatory and non-banking institutions. common regulation creating a level playing field for banking and non-banking institutions. this is the reality of today. the third thing i want to emphasize is that i'm concerned about the fact that we're relying on risk-ready models. this risk assessment principle has proven to be highly subjective, and i have my doubts about the solvency ii and basel ii directives. we can't trust the rating agencies, we can criticize them, but this is always going to be a problem. our main thing has to be that we have to rely on market instruments, that is, liquidity. if we can't sell a security on the market, or it's not traded enough, then no rating agency can rate it. we need to be clear about this and reduce the dependence of our laws on the opinions of rating agencies. and so, in closing, i want to make it clear that there is no need to bail out financial institutions. from my experience with the lithuanian banking crisis, i can say that when bankers spend a couple of weeks in jail, they quickly understand how to run banks. (the president cut off the speaker)
acting president of the council. if you read the programmes of the german, slovenian and portuguese presidencies carefully, you will see that these social issues, particularly in the field of gender equality and the protection of the family, are a major concern for us. we will of course propose, in collaboration with the commission and within the framework of the respective competences, the measures which may be the most favourable and which may indeed reflect our social concerns. these concerns are necessary in a modern society such as the european union society, taking into account the competences of the union at this level and the competences of the member states. let me assure you, madam president, that social issues, and particularly those relating to the protection of the family, are a priority for the three presidencies and, in this particular case, for the portuguese presidency. i hope i have not disappointed you in this area in december.
as far back as 1975, the european union adopted legislation prohibiting discrimination on the basis of pay and requiring equal pay for men and women for equal work. this legislation has not been implemented for 30 years. i would like to ask the council for its opinion on whether a member state can choose which legislation to implement and which not, and what is the situation in portugal?
acting president of the council. i would like to point out to the honourable member that, as i have already said, human rights issues linked to the protection and respect of human rights are a constant theme in the dialogue between the european union and third countries. it is a concern of the council and it is a permanent and constant concern of the various presidencies which hold the presidency of the council and it will be so during the portuguese presidency as well. the european parliament has a duty to protect human rights in the european union. i have just had the opportunity to say to some members of the european parliament here that we ourselves, having had a dictatorship in portugal until 1974, are particularly sensitive to everything that has to do with democracy, the rule of law and human rights. these are matters which are particularly dear to us and therefore in our dialogue with third countries, but also with israel, we will always keep these points in mind in the dialogue we have regularly with the israeli authorities.
acting president of the council. the council is keeping a close eye on the critical political and economic situation in zimbabwe. the council discussed this issue at its meeting of 23 april 2007 and was again informed of this problem at its meeting of 22 july, so very recently. the council's strategy has been publicly presented since the restrictive measures were first introduced. in 2002, the council decided to introduce restrictive measures against the leaders of zimbabwe, stating that as long as human rights violations continued, the council considered it necessary to maintain restrictive measures against the government of zimbabwe and those responsible for such violations, as well as for violations of freedom of opinion, association and peaceful assembly. the council also stated that such measures would only be lifted when the conditions were met to ensure respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law. in response to recent acts of violence and human rights violations, the council decided on 23 april to extend the list of visa bans. since the introduction of the restrictive measures the council has sought to involve the african multilateral institutions. the council has systematically put the zimbabwean question on the agenda of all ministerial meetings held with sadec since these measures were introduced. the european union has also raised the issue of zimbabwe in the united nations commission on human rights. the council welcomed the initiative of sadec and the mandate given to president mbeki to facilitate dialogue between the opposition and the government and the appointment of mr kikwete as president of the sadec body. the council looks forward to the first results of these african initiatives and, if appropriate, will reconsider its position accordingly.
acting president of the council. the european union has been following very closely, as i have already said, the situation in zimbabwe and has taken the measures it considers most appropriate in this regard. the european council, in turn, has in successive conclusions from its meetings, understood that it is strategic for the european union to maintain a comprehensive, comprehensive and detailed dialogue with africa as a whole. and it is this mandate, which we have received from the european council, that reflects the interest and commitment in this global dialogue that we must have with the african countries because we have a lot to discuss, but also to cooperate, with africa. it is with this aim and this intention that the portuguese presidency is determined to hold the second europe-africa summit in lisbon in december. we are convinced that this summit is in our interest and in the interest of the other member states, in the interest of the european union, but also in the interest of africa. we must discuss with africa migration, the economy, trade, energy, the climate, but also, of course, human rights and good governance, among other matters with which we have already been in dialogue and which were also the subject of debate and discussion at the first summit held in cairo in 2000 under the previous portuguese presidency. it is an objective we have set for our presidency and it is an objective we intend to maintain by working in close cooperation with our partners, both in the european union and also with our african partners.
acting president of the council. as regards the elements raised by the honourable member and the first question, the council would like to point out that it does not comment on media reports. secondly, in reply to the second question, the council reminds the honourable member that the nord stream project is a private project carried out by nord stream ag, a joint venture. furthermore, as the council noted in its reply to oral question h-0121/07 on the russian-german gas pipeline in the baltic sea, submitted by mr nils lundgren, the development of a gas pipeline between russia and germany via the baltic sea was designated in decision 1364/2006/ec of the european parliament and of the council as a project of european interest. for a detailed explanation of this designation the council refers the honourable member to the answer to that question. as regards the third question, the council recalls that the construction of a new gas pipeline in northern europe along this route is in line with the european union's energy policy objective of improving the security of supply in the community. effective diversification of energy sources and transport routes was mentioned in the community action plan of the european council of march 2007 as one of the means of improving security of supply. the community acquis will be applied in full where necessary, including in particular community environmental legislation, to the parts of the pipeline constructed in the territory of the member states of the european union.
i'm not sure if this is a private project or a european union project. the pipeline runs through the baltic sea and is bordered by not two countries but several. there's a huge threat to lifting weapons from the bottom. before the project is even started, russia and germany are changing their route. i mean, it's hard to tell now whose project it is, private or european union? the pipeline runs through the baltic sea and is bordered by more than two countries. there's a huge threat to lifting weapons from the bottom. before the project is even started, russia and germany change course, as a huge stockpile of weapons left over from world war ii is found near denmark, finland, estonia and sweden. could it be a private project that poses not only a problem for the energy supply, namely gas, to the neighbouring countries, but also an ecological problem in the baltic sea?
madam president, i find the report of ms valenciano martínez-orozco a comprehensive one, which clearly aims to strengthen and improve the european union’s extensive action on human rights dialogues and consultations on human rights with third countries. tonight we speak about one of the most important human rights instruments available to the european union for promoting human rights in our relations with third countries. i appreciate the critical but also constructive way in which the challenges that the functioning of human rights dialogues has to face with regard to the overall perspective and interinstitutional cooperation are addressed by the rapporteur. i fully endorse most of the recommendations put forward by the report and the resolution. i would especially like to draw your attention to the need to increase transparency and to adopt indicators for given benchmarks in order to achieve practical results that could be supported by other eu foreign policy tools. i strongly support the recommendation to control the specific benchmarks for the eu-china dialogue on human rights as well as the eu-russia consultations, hoping to develop them soon into a structured dialogue in order to assess the usefulness of human rights dialogues. it is important also to apply and use the results of human rights dialogues in projects under the european initiative for democracy and human rights and systematically to link those two tools. i fully support the recommendation that the role and involvement of the european parliament in interparliamentary assemblies in human rights dialogues can, in the said countries, be enhanced in the future. last but not least, human rights must be the cornerstone of our political message, and it is crucially important to develop our message through consistency, transparency and the strong political commitment of all european institutions and the member states.
the human rights theme of the dialogue can never be overemphasised, and i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur on her many proposals and assessments. the european parliament is willing and able to play a more active role in the council and commission's human rights dialogue with third countries, as it has the potential and experience to do so. the realism of the commission and the council should be complemented by the creativity and unbridledness of the parliamentarians. there is a growing need to speak out about the situation of human rights defenders and the environment in which they work, about economic, social and environmental human rights. despite the darkness of the iraq war and the shadows of guantanamo, the eu and the us enjoy good relations because they share common values. the eu and russia are linked by gas and oil pipelines, but energy sources and commercial interests should not overshadow a dialogue on human rights in russia. this great and important country is looking for a national idea and a special path. i would remind you of the joke i heard in moscow: we in russia used to think we were on the right track, but now we are on the wrong track. no one disputes russia's right to take a specific path if that is what the majority of its citizens want. what else, if it is manifested in restrictions on freedom of speech and press, on the activities of ngos, on the creation of exclusive conditions for one party. there is no dialogue with belarus on human rights, which i believe is in the interest not only of human rights defenders in this country but also of the eu itself. what we are sharply criticizing about belarus is also true of some countries in central asia and the south caucasus, even those participating in the eu's neighbourhood policy. however, the greater distances and the smell of oil and gas should not soften the attitude towards human rights violations.
for the alde group the individual, the consumer and the satisfaction of his needs is one of the main objectives of economic integration in the eu. the internal market is not an end in itself, its purpose is to serve the individual, and therefore it is essential that consumer rights are guaranteed in all eu countries with functioning markets for goods, services, capital and labour. the eu's existing consumer market, which is governed by the acquis, is not practical. in view of this, the commission has set itself the objective of creating a genuine consumer internal market by ensuring a high level of consumer protection and a balance between the competitiveness of undertakings. a balanced approach is needed that does not override the interests of consumers and economic operators. such a balanced view is lacking. member states often exercise the right to adopt stricter rules to ensure a higher level of consumer protection. i believe that the revision of the acquis must achieve the same level of consumer protection, regardless of the country of residence of the consumer or the country of purchase or service. i therefore support the proposed horizontal approach which should apply to all consumer contracts local and international transactions. however, when it comes to the interests of consumers and economic operators, the interests of the economic operator very often prevail. consumers are forced to assume almost 100% responsibility for the transaction, additional conditions are imposed on them during the provision of the service, prices; contracts can be terminated unilaterally. this is particularly true for non-coordinated sectors such as residential construction. consumers are forced to explain their relationship with construction companies in court, they are not compensated for material or moral damage in reality, and i therefore believe that the unfairness test should be applied to the adequacy of the subject-matter of the main contract and the price. therefore, as regards breach of contract under the horizontal measure, i support the introduction of a general consumer right to compensation for material and non-material damage. i also believe that consumer law should be linked not only to civil and commercial law but also to measures to restrict the placing on the market of products and services of poor quality.
the european parliament, by this debate and resolution which we are about to vote on, draws the attention of the member states of the european union, the other institutions of the european union and the international community to the human rights situation in burma. in a country that is often called a tourist's paradise, but is far from a paradise for the people who live there. the latest provocation by the regime that rules this country against its citizens is the 500 percent increase in fuel prices last month. not surprisingly, this decision provoked public dissatisfaction and protests. protests have been and continue to be brutally suppressed. dozens of protesters have been beaten, arrested, and the repression of its citizens by this regime, what it does, is to remember the events of 1988, the situation of the nobel peace prize winner, the 2003 assassination, and the fact that since 1996 the regime has destroyed more than 3,000 villages, forcibly displacing more than a million people. the regime is characterized by extreme brutality, with its list of measures including rape, torture, forced labor, and the recruitment of underage soldiers. all this is clearly visible to the international community and we should not allow the events of recent days to escalate into even greater repression. the crimes of the regime in burma, the human rights violations, deserve our strongest condemnation. we express our solidarity with the people of burma and demand the immediate release of the arrested protesters so that the nobel peace prize winner can live a full life and express herself freely in public life. the responsibility for this lies with some countries in the region, china and india, which can use their influence in a civilised way to resolve the latest conflict.
this report, carefully prepared by my colleague britta thomsen, will help us to live in a cleaner environment, to resist climate change. ambitious renewable energy action plans at eu and national levels, and their monitoring, should be integrated into the eu's overall energy policy, reducing dependence on energy supplies from third countries. however, as some countries have a high potential for hydro, solar or wind energy and others have a low potential, each country's action plan must be highly individual and realistic. it would be useful for the european commission to redirect the use of the structural funds towards renewable energy development and also to seal and heat block houses. tax policies should also promote renewable energy. we see a rise in food prices in europe, linked to an increase in demand for biofuels. it really shouldn't be like this. what will the eu citizen say, struggling to make ends meet, if the necessary shift to more renewable energy sources contributes to the rise in electricity and housing prices? the market won't fix everything. provision should be made for aid for those in more difficult circumstances, who are particularly affected by the surges in energy prices. in general, i'm sure that in the future, we'll have to change our lifestyle, reduce our luxuries. man has made the planet sick, and man must heal it.
the eu, ladies and gentlemen, is the first and best instrument for achieving the free movement of goods in the internal market. to protect the consumer, the eu is implementing new approach directives, including the toy safety directive. the eu producer shall be responsible for the safety of the product he has produced. is the importer responsible for the safety of the goods? the situation in the european and global toy markets is the opposite. in august of this year alone, the u.s. toy manufacturer mattel recalled nearly 19 million toys made in china. mattel toys are also sold in the eu. in 2006, half of the products sold in the eu that were hazardous to health were manufactured in china. the same safety requirements apply not only to eu producers but also to exporters from third countries wishing to sell their goods on the eu internal market. i think that the producers who have moved their production from the eu to china have an influence and a responsibility to take on. they should not only use cheap chinese labour but also treat fairly the consumers of their production their own citizens. i call on the commission to speed up the review of the toy safety directive, to introduce clear safety criteria for toys, to control ce marking and to protect our children from dangerous toys entering the eu market. as regards third-party certification, i believe that it should be mandatory for manufacturers and importers whose products have been found unsafe on the market, i.e. have lost confidence.
ladies and gentlemen, the restructuring of the sugar industry, the changes in the organisation of the sugar market sector are necessary. however, the commission's proposal may not solve the problem but rather create problems on the sugar market in some countries. if a country cannot itself determine the priority criteria for the acceptance of growers' applications, by assessing the yield indicators and the production volume of the farms, it may result in a situation where not only the least efficient farms but also competitive growers will withdraw from sugar beet production. in the case of lithuania, there may be a shortage of raw materials for the sugar factories in operation, which will have negative economic and social consequences. furthermore, the commission did not take into account lithuania's proposal to reduce the quota until 2010, taking into account not only whether the member state had voluntarily reduced the production quota, but also whether it had bought in additional production quota. i invite the commission to take account of those comments. i abstained on this project.
acting president of the council. madam president, it is a great pleasure to meet you today to discuss an issue which is at the heart of our common european values. the fight against the death penalty is an integral part of the european union's human rights policy and was the subject of the first eu human rights guidelines. these guidelines, as members are well aware, have since 1998 laid down the main elements of a european union approach to this issue, thus crystallising our well-known opposition to the death penalty. they serve to recall the union's objectives on the question of the death penalty as set out in the guidelines. the first objective is to work towards the universal abolition of the death penalty, thus taking the political position which has been adopted and which is firmly defended by all its member states. the second objective is to call for the gradual reduction of the death penalty in countries where it still exists and for its application to be brought into line with international minimum standards. it is a pleasure to be here today to tell you about the latest developments in our fight for the abolition of the death penalty. as you know, we have recently launched a major initiative to promote these objectives of the european union. i am, of course, referring to the council decision of 18 july this year, in which the european union undertook to present, within the framework of a transregional alliance, a resolution against the death penalty to the 62nd general assembly of the united nations. the european union has been called upon to take such an initiative in two resolutions adopted earlier this year, in february and april. with the opening of the third session of the united nations general assembly fast approaching, i am aware of your interest in how the council has been preparing for this moment. i'll tell you a little bit more about the preparations we're making in a moment. before that, however, let me briefly look back on the almost ten years that have passed since the adoption of the guidelines on the death penalty. i should stress that we have achieved a great deal since 1998. we have developed a wide range of instruments in our campaign against the death penalty, ranging from political action through multilateral efforts, declarations and diplomacy, to financial support through the european initiative for democracy and human rights, an instrument created largely thanks to the efforts of the european parliament. for example, between 1 july 2006 and 30 june 2007, the european union carried out general inquiries into the death penalty in 28 countries, from bahrain to zambia; we also conducted investigations on individual cases that focused on a number of countries from yemen to iran. on the other hand, the european union's statements on this subject are also frequent, and i will give you an example which has been widely reported: in august this year, the european union issued a statement on the occasion of the 400th execution in the state of texas. i would also like to stress that the death penalty is also on the agenda of our human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries and we do not shy away from raising this issue with anyone. our confidence in effective multilateralism has also been expressed in tireless action against the death penalty in the united nations and other international fora. every year between 1997 and 2005, the eu presented a resolution on the death penalty to the un commission on human rights and, resuming our action in december 2006, the eu presented a declaration on the death penalty to the un general assembly which initially gathered 85 signatures and was subsequently signed by ten more countries. the presidency of the european union reaffirmed this declaration of december 2006 at the opening of the fourth session of the human rights council in march 2007. despite the continuing concern about the use of the death penalty, we welcome a global trend towards abolition or a moratorium on the death penalty. more than half of the countries worldwide have already abolished the death penalty, either by law or in practice, 133 countries, according to amnesty international data. i would like to believe that the european union, including of course the european parliament, has played, if only a modest role, in this trend towards abolition through our systematic and sustained action over the years. the european union's actions against the death penalty are a testimony to our commitment to this cause and let me stress that we recognize that the european parliament has been a faithful ally in our efforts and this brings me back to the topic on our agenda at the moment, namely the un general assembly resolution calling for a moratorium and abolition of the death penalty. this initiative confirms that the european union is at the forefront of abolitionist efforts worldwide and will continue to oppose the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances as a cruel and inhuman punishment. there is much to gain from this initiative, but also much to lose if we fail to make it a success. we must not forget that this is our third attempt, i repeat, our third attempt to get a resolution on the death penalty in the un general assembly after the failures of 1994 and 1999. at stake is nothing less than our credibility as leaders of the global effort to abolish the death penalty. that is why the council felt it necessary to be well prepared and to have sufficient time to constitute a transregional alliance. this would not have been possible in time for the 61st general assembly, as some of you would have preferred. and it was not just the council's experts who were of this opinion. several ngos leading the fight in this area, such as the coalition against the death penalty, have asked us not to rush the resolution and to wait for the time necessary for proper preparation in order to ensure its success. this is precisely the path we have been following. the council's decision on 18 june to present a resolution to the 62nd session of the united nations general assembly marked the beginning of a new phase in the multilateral field. the council, the presidency and the member states have each been working in their respective roles to implement the council decision. the cfsp human rights group had already decided before the summer break on the approach to be taken, i.e. to agree on a draft text between the member states of the european union and then to meet other co-authors from different parts of the world. this was done, allowing a first meeting with all the co-authors to take place in new york at the end of august. within two weeks an agreement was reached on the text. we have now started a lobbying campaign to associate co-sponsors with our draft resolution. as i speak, our embassies around the world are scouting for potential supporters of our initiative. we are doing everything possible to gather as much support as possible in order to make this resolution a success. in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to appeal to your confidence and support in our conduct of this process. the members are certainly not unaware of the difficulty of political negotiations. but you can understand that the presidency needs a certain flexibility and room for manoeuvre to manage and find the right timetable for an initiative of this complexity, because it is a transregional initiative and the co-authors also have to look at themselves in the text and strategy of this resolution and, in addition, we have to contact a large number of possible co-sponsors quickly so that this initiative gains weight. we have embarked on a campaign which is also a great challenge, but i am convinced that if we act in concert, we can make this initiative a success.
for the ppe-de group mr president, mr commissioner, mr secretary of state, colleagues, today we are returning to the question of the moratorium on the death penalty in the european parliament. we have already discussed this issue twice this year, with the adoption of two resolutions on the implementation of the universal moratorium on the death penalty on 1 february and 26 april. it is regrettable that in both of these resolutions the european parliament addressed the council of the european union with a call for an urgent resolution to the united nations general assembly, but that the council has not yet presented a resolution. the council could do so at the beginning of the 62nd session of the general assembly, which would allow it to adopt this resolution before the end of the year. the death penalty is a cruel and inhumane form of punishment, which violates one of the most basic human rights, the right to life, and we cannot accept the fact that thousands of people are executed every year, not only in iran and china, but also in other countries. the implementation of a universal moratorium on the use of the death penalty, with a view to its total abolition, therefore remains one of our most important political objectives and requires not only the agreement of our parliament's political groups but also the consensus of all the member states of the european union on this issue. i am convinced that the european parliament, by adopting this resolution, could demonstrate a special solidarity and listening despite some differences of opinion, for example on the recognition of 10 october as the european day against the death penalty. the european parliament also has a great opportunity to set an example of concentration and unity for the council of the european union, especially when we are deciding on a political issue with a very clear set of values. politics without values is just cheap politics, populism, and human life is a value for all of us, regardless of geographical or cultural boundaries. i would like to invite my colleagues from all political groups to support this important resolution. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. of course there is no other way than to look at the global context. if you look in practice at what other major communities around the world are focusing their research on, then it is the same as ours. more than that, we do combine our efforts in many areas. one of the things we really strengthened in the seventh framework programme was precisely international cooperation. we are funding and supporting that, and will do so more in the future, because we believe that in the world of globalisation the challenges which lie ahead of us – be it food, health, drinking water, climate change, security or energy – are global and it is for us all to deal with them in the proper way.
commissioner, you mentioned among the top priorities the thematic subjects energy and climate change. that is a correct priority, and the european union needs a breakthrough. how does the commission intend to organise cooperation between the best brains in the eu to work on this subject, and maybe – even more so – to promote cooperation between the best brains in the world? because this question is a crucial one.
on behalf of the pse group madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank her for the good cooperation in coordinating the amendments to the report on this new, bold topic. the european union is indeed not simply implementing a common foreign and security policy, but is only beginning to develop a common energy policy. and here it is proposed to go further to develop a common european external energy policy. this is a step which i believe is the right one, because the intersection between foreign affairs and energy is becoming increasingly apparent, and we need to look to the future. countries that control energy resources are tempted to control, if not the whole world, then at least a special influence in some regions. this report suggests ways to avoid this by using the eu's most legitimate instrument, solidarity. the creation of a special representative for external energy policy with dual responsibilities would be important, i have no doubt about that. recalling the famous quote by henry kissinger, he should receive calls from officials and representatives of the largest companies in the countries supplying resources and transit countries, and he would not hesitate to receive calls from the capitals of the eu countries. meps would expect to receive reports from the commission on the implementation of this proposed policy and on the observance of the principles of transparency, reciprocity and transparency by third countries. if the european union accepts this policy, we will avoid the dilemma of bilateral agreements being made over the heads of neighbours in the european union. the eu and russia are highly dependent on each other for energy imports and exports. both sides are looking and will look for opportunities for diversification, but they will remain natural, complementary partners for a long time. it is essential that the eu and russia are bound by agreements based on international law, which are negotiable and clearly controlled. this report also sets out a path for them. (applause) i would like to thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. i'll say it again, but i'll say it's very necessary, timely, if not overdue. i have already stressed on several occasions the issues of the common energy policy and the security of energy supply, as these are vital issues for lithuania and the other baltic states. let us recall the laperrouze report on the guidelines for trans-european networks, which was discussed two years ago. unfortunately, the understanding here in parliament was then, and still is in some countries, quite different from that of the nord stream project. life shows you who's right. today i can only rejoice that the situation is changing and that the european commission has taken bold steps. the package of 19 september, together with this report, is finally beginning to meet our expectations.
acting president of the council. i hope i have understood the question correctly, and if i have not, i would naturally like to be corrected or clarified on the exact meaning of the question. i would like to say this: as the honourable member knows, all these issues are very directly related to the lisbon strategy and in particular to the lisbon strategy in its 'economy' aspect. we are obviously currently analysing various aspects of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy, and one of the issues that we will have to analyse and discuss is precisely the role of the member states in achieving the targets or objectives they intend to achieve, particularly in the context of measures relating to innovation and the development of small and mediumsized enterprises and, of course, also in the chapter on the governance of small and mediumsized enterprises, how we can achieve these objectives. and we understand that governments and member states have a key role to play here, and it is also useful, of course, that the commission can monitor closely how member states are doing and adopting their policies to meet the objectives that have been set.
president-in- office, in answering that question you mentioned energy efficiency, and i believe it is the right approach. yesterday commissioner potočnik also stressed that priority number one is energy efficiency and fighting climate change. i would like to ask you, what additional measures can the council take in order to mobilise all their resources and attention to solving this vital problem of efficiency and climate change?
member of the commission. mr president, this is a great report and ms descamps has done excellent work, together with her colleagues in the committee. the digital libraries initiative is an example of how europe can contribute, through concrete projects, not only to economic growth but also to quality of life. by bringing europe’s cultural and scientific heritage online, we can disseminate it through into different cultures. by using modern technologies, we can break down the walls which exist today. i am very happy that this initiative, taken by the national libraries of our member states and developed by the european commission for so many years, has been highlighted and supported by eu political forces at the highest level. they are right to do so; our heads of state and government are right to support this initiative, because there is real wealth in our libraries, our archives and our museums. it is not only books, but also newspapers, archive records and films. this is a multilingual wealth, a multicultural wealth. knowing that less than 1% of this wealth is digitalised, we know what is in front of us and what kind of work we have to do. that work is necessary for two reasons. the first is to overcome barriers and to get people to study, work and enjoy these works from their own culture and works from our common european history, and then to allow these elements of our cultural institutions to be reused for added-value services and products. that is where industry comes in. that is the reason why the goal of the commission’s initiative is to achieve a common, multilingual access point to europe’s digitalised cultural heritage. we cannot do this alone. it requires collaboration between different types of cultural institutions, from all european countries. i am very glad to see that this is taking shape and is being formalised through the creation of a legal body that will increase the capacity of the european digital library to act. this common access point will be launched in 2008. in the years thereafter the content will be gradually expanded as more libraries, more archives and more audiovisual archives and museums contribute their digitalised collections. i am very glad, also, that the report by parliament tackles not only the outcome but also the prerequisites for achieving that outcome. this means improving the general conditions for getting our cultural heritage online as an integral part of the digital libraries initiatives, and the need for member states to intensify their digitalisation efforts. i would say very clearly that it is not enough to have a big cultural event where all the heads of government make beautiful speeches and then go back to their countries and cut budgets. that cannot be! we need words to be followed by deeds. i want parliament to move ahead and help us make this very beautiful project a reality. we have the high level group on digital libraries, which i chair and which is forging ahead on this matter. we are also very conscious that the preservation of digital material will be one of the essential questions of the future, and i am therefore glad that the council has endorsed the commission approach to the european digital library and that parliament is now helping us move in the same direction and is putting its political weight behind this objective.
for the alde group ladies and gentlemen, the european digital library, as announced in the commission's initial document, would build on europe's rich heritage, linking multicultural and multilingual environments with advanced technologies and new business models. in the context of integration, this is a welcome and beautiful ambition. however, we must remain realistic about our ideals and be extremely vigilant and ready to face the challenges that are inevitable in this process. the main challenges in creating digital libraries are universal, although they are called differently. the technical infrastructure, the creation of digital collections, digitisation, copyright identification, content protection and document preservation - all these issues require development and fundamental solutions. the possibilities of virtual services and the projects for their implementation are relevant for different types of libraries. however, it is clear that digital objects such as text, image, audio information complement the traditional library functions with different content. for example, the availability of information in a traditional library is determined by its opening hours, which are generally longer than those of other public institutions. in the case of a virtual library, accessibility is universal, as there are no physical library doors separating information from users, and accessibility is guaranteed by the server's uptime. in designing virtual services, librarians can use traditional skills and knowledge, but they are not enough. digital libraries are a phenomenon of the third millennium and it is therefore necessary to anticipate not only the specific knowledge needs of today but also those of the future as technologies change. knowledge of specific technologies is not so important, because any flexible, mature worker will be able to acquire the necessary skills and experience for the job. in my country, lithuania, the law defines the long-term preservation of lithuanian heritage through the use of information technology. however, this problem is not yet being solved in our country by coordinating the activities of memory institutions (libraries, museums and archives). at present, neither lithuanian nor foreign citizens can use all the services of the electronic library. i hope that our decision today will speed up these processes.
member of the commission. madam president, i really welcome this initiative of the parliament to take further the message of our communication, which we adopted on this topic last year. i read your report with a lot of interest and i also listened now to mr zatloukal, whom i want to congratulate cordially because i think and i feel we are partners on this issue, in this debate and in efforts to improve the situation. we could listen now to a description of socioeconomic challenges that we are facing individually, collectively, together, but also of the importance of investment – better investment, more investment – in education and training policies. i think that education and training policy lies at the centre of our efforts to create a more prosperous and a more cohesive european society. all european education systems are marked by educational inequities that reflect socioeconomic inequalities. the paradoxical role of education and training in relation to these inequalities is that they very often contribute to their perpetuation. but they are sometimes the only vehicle by which inequalities can be ameliorated. across europe, the process of modernising education and training systems is largely driven by the search for greater efficiency in terms of cost-effectiveness. i think this is really desirable, of course, but it is frequently, and wrongly, assumed that efficiency and equity are mutually exclusive. as part of our commitment to helping member states improve their education and training systems, the commission’s communication showed that efficiency and equity do not have to come at the expense of each other, at the expense of quality. efficiency and equity are, in effect, mutually enforcing. i think this is the most important message from the whole communication. your report stresses strongly the need for european education and training systems to be both efficient and equitable if they are to help us to achieve not only economic growth but social cohesion. i am especially pleased to see your emphasis on the need to develop efficient and equitable policies for the whole life-long learning continuum and on the need to invest in education early, as investing in quality early-childhood and pre-primary education and care is shown to be the most effective way of breaking the cycle of disadvantage. i am also pleased to notice that you confirm our message that early tracking of pupils has detrimental effects on efficiency and equity. and, of course, you place a lot of emphasis on the need to develop a culture of evaluation in order to develop effective long-term policies and create policies based on solid evidence. your initiative will bring us closer to the development of life-long learning strategies that foster equality, inclusion, integration, and social cohesion. we will take full account of it in our forthcoming initiatives in the field of education and training, especially in the proposal for the 2008 joint report on the implementation of our work programme and our reflections for the future, and in the green paper on the links between education and migration, in which inequalities will be a central issue. we hope to present this communication next spring.
for the alde group ladies and gentlemen, learning is an integral part of the european social dimension, as it is the way in which the meaning of solidarity, equal opportunities and social participation is conveyed. all citizens must acquire and continuously update knowledge and skills. in addition, the special needs of persons at risk of social exclusion must be taken into account. the european union does not directly regulate the development of national education systems, but it does have a strong influence on their development. in particular, through the formulation of the common objectives of the european union. second, through the monitoring of established european guidelines and the reporting of educational progress by countries. thirdly, the european union is financing education and science programmes. i welcome the european commission's recommendation that the structural funds give priority to investing in human resources. the european union must enable each member state, in its efforts to create and develop an effective and equitable european education and training system, to deal effectively with problems which are specific to that country. for example, one of the most painful problems in lithuania today is violence in schools. prevention programmes at national level have already been launched to combat it. another theme is looking at ways to improve the quality of higher education so that the education that is provided at universities in our country is on par with that at the best western universities. the problems in lithuania are also more in the area of education low salaries for teachers in all fields, which is increasingly causing a shortage of teachers and lecturers. there is a lack of funds for the renovation of sports halls and pitches, while i believe that improving sports infrastructure is important not only for encouraging school children to participate in sports, but also for the prevention of drug addiction, alcoholism and smoking. another very pressing issue is the generation of returning young migrant children, which requires additional resources, effort and teachers for the equalization classes and special programmes. these are just some of the problems i am sure other new member states are facing. i very much support the rapporteur's view when he says that the current situation is not satisfactory. the european union's challenge today is to evaluate and actively support individual education systems in a realistic way, in line with common european objectives and standards.
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteur on a report which i hope will help to protect people more effectively against racial and ethnic discrimination and to be more successful in seeking compensation. there is still a lot to be done to ensure that the directives on racial equality and employment equality are properly implemented. people in the european union countries, especially the new ones, still do not know their rights, lack the time or simply cannot afford to sue. in many countries, victims of discrimination are unable to rally and empower more capable associations to defend their collective rights. it is difficult to collect data on specific issues, to identify indirect discrimination or to assess the extent of discrimination in society. the european commission is therefore weak in monitoring the implementation of directives and in identifying the causes of the poor situation. i support the recommendations of my colleagues to allocate more resources to ngos that inform citizens and provide legal assistance to victims of discrimination. the media also play a very important role. i would like to take this opportunity to address my colleagues. we all have offices in the countries where we are elected. we could provide and finance initial legal advice to inform citizens about anti-discrimination legislation and the right to compensation. i mean, we could help people directly. we need to do more to build political will to strengthen the fight against racial discrimination and employment inequality.
the issue of equality between women and men remains an important one in the eu. there were few changes in 2006. in the eu, women's wages remained 15% lower than men's. women have difficulty returning to the workforce, climbing the career ladder. the 1975 council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women has not yet been implemented. member states do not show the political will to address gender equality and gender mainstreaming. i therefore support the proposal in the report for the commission to investigate how member states implement community legislation on equality between women and men and to take action if community law is not implemented. as regards gender mainstreaming, i would like to stress the importance of good practice and its dissemination, especially in improving women's participation in politics and political decision-making processes. my country, lithuania, has had such experiences. the commission and the proper use of the european social fund can play an important role in disseminating such experience.
madam president, i would just like to say to mr stubb that lithuania does not gain in any of the cases he gave. aš noriu pasakyti aleksandrui, kad visais trimis atvejais lietuva turės tiek pat vietų : pirmu atveju todėl, kad taip numatyta, antru atveju todėl, kad taip numatyta, o trečiu atveju ... kai mes čia dabar svarstome kaip parlamentas (todėl, kad pirmininkauja šitam svarbiam posėdžiui ne parlamento pirmininkas), kai mes svarstome apie parlamentą ir aš nematau pono lamassoure. ar jis yra salėje? tai kam čia kalbėti? pagrindiniai žmonės išėjo. viskas aišku. aš kalbu dėl to, kad mes iš tiesų turime kalbėti apie bendrus namus, bendrą europą ir girdėti kiekvieną balsą kiekvienos šalies. mano šalies problema yra tokia – mes daug metų kovojame už savo išlikimą, tai maža tauta. dabar daug žmonių gyvena kitose šalyse, dirba jūsų įmonėse ir jie faktiškai neturės teisės dalyvauti europos reikalų sprendime. mes bandome išlaikyti tuos ryšius, būti kartu, būti tauta, nedingti iš žemėlapio, bet jie negalės balsuoti, todėl, kad europos parlamento narių skaičius bus nustatomas pagal gyventojų skaičių, o jie gyvena ir pas jus, aleksandrai, ir didžiojoje britanijoje, ir airijoje ir dirba ten sąžiningai. jie aišku gali rinkti švedijos, suomijos, britanijos, italijos atstovą, bet kaip tauta mes tiesiog nykstame. ir tai yra svarbiausias klausimas, kuris jaudina mane ir aš labai apgailestauju, kad šitoje salėje mes iš tiesų, kaip ponas lamassoure sako, mažai kalbame apie vertybes ir šiandieniniai debatai yra puikus pavyzdys. nes aš žiūrėdama į pavardes žinau, kas kiek vietų gavo, ir galiu pasakyti iš anksto, kas kokią nuomonę pasakys.
for the alde group i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his cooperation and for listening to the wide range of proposals. i would like to share my thoughts on the ground services directive. i am concerned that the stakeholders have already blocked the revision of the directive a few years ago, especially since the commission had to prepare a new draft proposal. the concerns raised by market participants and the content of the improvements currently proposed indicate the need to update the directive as soon as possible. it should also be borne in mind that the eu's enlargement after 2004 has brought to the aviation market new features from new countries, which were unfortunately not taken into account in the commission's document this time. i would like to dwell briefly on some specific observations. the current directive was intended to regulate the conditions of competition between third-party providers and self-sustaining companies. however, it must be considered that in the post-soviet states there was until recently a state monopoly on all terrestrial services. therefore, the emergence of independent service providers is inevitable when market conditions are established. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. in most cases, such competition violates the principles of equality and transparency because of an objectively established conflict of interest. the commission notes that the airport operator's agreement with ryanair to operate the airport was signed on 29 june 2012 and entered into force on 1 january 2013. the principle of impartiality requires that the rights of airport users be enhanced by the choice of a provider that meets the expectations of the recipient airlines and not of the airport's management. the increasing price of security-compliant equipment increases the investment required, but the seven-year timeframe for selecting suppliers forces service providers to recover the increased investment more quickly, often at the expense of working conditions and pay. i therefore consider it necessary to extend the deadline for the selection of terrestrial providers. i invite the commission to present a draft of the updated directive in the near future (during this term of office) after having assessed the ep's proposals, thus saving time for future improvements.
i am concerned that the talk of european politicians on energy conservation, climate change and similar issues is being ignored in many european member states. the regions, provinces and other administrative units also ignore these problems. now we often see with the naked eye how there is no saving of electricity, how there is no thinking about the consequences of global warming. for example, almost every time i drive on the motorway from brussels to luxembourg, i see lights burning for tens of kilometres and nobody - not wallonia, not belgium, not the provinces - takes responsibility for it. on the other hand, even in the european parliament, our words often differ from our actions. i cannot understand why every strasbourg session is given 200 to 300 pages of transcripts and minutes to each member. i think we should limit them to printing on the internet and stop printing them in paper form.
there is probably not a single person in this room, in this parliament, who would say that the environment, a healthy environment, human health, is not important. nor do european citizens seem to have such a status. but, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to making decisions, when it comes to legislation, when it comes to drawing up and adopting the rules that will have to be followed, the rules that will have to be worked by hundreds of thousands of people, which will affect millions of citizens in one way or another, it cannot be guided by good intentions or emotions alone. we must use our reason and evaluate the realities of life. we have to take into account a number of factors. one of the main tasks and objectives of european union agriculture is to provide good food at a price acceptable to consumers. the european union's high standards of food production and strict farming controls are known throughout the world. but we are constantly told that european agriculture must not only produce good food, but also be competitive. these factors cannot therefore be disregarded in the regulation of plant protection products. the commission proposal and the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development met in general all the expectations of the interested parties. however, the amendments adopted or which emerged during the deliberations of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have raised serious concerns. the proposed option, if adopted, could have unforeseen consequences. there is a great threat not only to agriculture, the food industry, but also to nature itself. but will this not be linked to the penetration of gmos into the markets of the european union? it is clear what the threat to traditional crops will be if close to 90% of plant protection products are withdrawn from the market. ladies and gentlemen, i urge everyone to make a decision based on the big picture, on science, on good practice and on reason, not on rumors and emotion. i therefore invite my colleague to take account of the views of all the parties concerned when voting and to take a balanced, fair decision so that, in order to improve the environment, we do not destroy agriculture and do not leave european union citizens without european food and millions of people without work.
for the alde group first of all, i would like to congratulate mr reul and his colleagues on their valuable amendments, on a job well done and on a balanced report. both types of energy covered by this report receive sufficient attention, while the importance of alternative energy and the deployment of new energy technologies is emphasised. energy diversification is a major contributor to energy security and is also a vital issue for my country lithuania. we are very vulnerable in this area because we are completely dependent on one supplier and we have no alternatives yet. one solution to this situation is the construction of a modern, safe nuclear power plant. this would be the basis for both political security and economic stability. the discussion of this report did not go without a discussion on the future of nuclear energy. in recognition of the importance of existing alternative energy sources and even new ones, and their potential dominance in the future, we must get down to earth and face the reality that nuclear power now accounts for 31% of all electricity in the european union. it is energy that helps to meet the kyoto targets and makes a significant contribution to the security of energy supply. i think it is hypocritical to propose amendments that reject nuclear energy, as some green politicians are doing so vigorously now, in the name of the security of the citizens of the european union, thereby increasing the insecurity of other citizens of the european union. i therefore urge my colleague to be tolerant and to support provisions which allow each country to decide whether it needs safe nuclear energy or not. only by talking and listening to each other will we find the right solution.
for the alde group i would also like to stress the importance of this report as a strategic line on which we should be talking when reforming the economies of the european union. i would just like to express my deep regret that the portuguese representatives of the council are not here when we are discussing such an important matter. what are the main points of our report? the key point is that the economic environment is changing and we need to update not only our companies but also our fiscal policy instruments accordingly. most of the time, when we talk about the lisbon strategy, we talk about spending policy and very rarely about tax policy. we cannot achieve the lisbon objectives without also talking about tax policy. what should be our first consideration? first of all, we now have to talk about how the tax burden is divided between the producer, the worker and the consumer, but we now have a new group of people these are people who live on capital income. it's called private equity. how do we divide that tax burden? how it should be - that's one of the challenges of the new economy. the other question, which is equally important, is how do we encourage structural reforms? so we cannot implement structural reforms unless new businesses are created, because people are not able to leave their jobs for new ones, and then social discontent starts. the creation of new businesses must also be given favourable tax treatment. that's one of the accents of our document. the discussion now is: what level of coordination of tax policy between member states is needed? we are in favour of tax competition and do not think that there should be any minimum rates. this is because each country has its own specific economic structure and its own specific public spending policy. tax policy must be consistent with expenditure policy, but we are certainly in favour of tax base coordination and support the commission in this respect.
in writing. i will speak on the two-package proposal from the commission and on the council regulation on the establishment, operation and management of the infrastructure of the schengen information system. i voted in favour of both resolutions and i believe that they are very important legislative documents for the ep. it is only regrettable that the launch of sis ii has already been postponed several times. the delay is such that solutions must be found to allow access to the sis 1plus network services after 13 november 2008, i.e. to extend the provision of the existing sisnet services, and to prepare a back-up solution for the s-testa network services. it is now clear that the human and financial resources that were earmarked for sis ii will be required for three simultaneous projects: sis ii, sis one4all, and the installation, operation and management of the communication infrastructure. this will have a negative impact on the implementation of sis ii. the agreement on how sis 1plus and later sis one4all will be financed is therefore of particular importance: whether all the participating countries will finance it or, for example, sisnet will be financed from the eu budget. the fair distribution of community and member state funds is essential, but in view of the importance of the project for eu security, it is clear that sis ii is a top priority and that sufficient funds should be found and allocated for the eu security and communication infrastructure.
i would like to talk about the impact of the european union budget on the lives of ordinary european citizens - some of whom are also listening to our debates today. it is often said that the european union must become the most competitive economy in the world, and the budget can help to achieve this. it just needs to be redesigned to be more efficient and to encourage scientific research, innovation. unfortunately, in reality, the experts are giving us data that the european commission doesn't even have a definition of what constitutes scientific research work. and different costs are identified as eligible under the research and innovation programme for different projects. we also often talk about europe and its impact on the world. the european union, with its 27 member states, has the potential to make a difference in the world. the budget allocates considerable resources to help third countries. but unfortunately, the effectiveness of these funds is often underestimated by the court's audits. the main reason for this is that many of the countries we help are governed by undemocratic regimes that ignore human rights and that programs are used to enrich a certain group of people rather than to improve the lives of those citizens. i would therefore urge that we make more use of the condition we have in our documents that the allocation of programmes must be linked to the process of democratisation and the implementation of human rights.
the commission's vice-president yes, you are right. we have discovered cases of children not yet registered at border crossings and that is why i attach great importance to identification. identification means helping the countries of origin, either at the level of the countries of the union - but i do not think that is the case - or above all in neighbouring and partner countries, where there is sometimes a lack of control as regards registers and where children, not yet or not at all registered, are phenomena of particular concern to me. and that is precisely why we have decided to support, also through european funding programmes, strategic projects to support and strengthen the capacity of data recording in the partner countries and in neighbouring countries.
vice-president of the commission. i have already said that i am not at all satisfied with the level of implementation and, so far, only four member states have implemented this decision. this decision now has to be implemented by all the member states. the fact that only four member states so far are implementing a decision unanimously taken in february 2007 shows that we have to do much more. concerning the right balance between protecting the confidentiality of data, or the protection of privacy of data, and the fight against paedophilia, when we talk about paedophiles and crimes and the abuse of children, from my personal point of view i am on the side of the victims – the children – and i am not on the side of the criminals. so, provided that all the guarantees are acknowledged, we should first of all support the victims and parents, not the suspected criminals.
member of the commission. actually, i had some problems pronouncing it myself. to begin with, i had hoped it would be eradicated without my having to learn how to pronounce it, but unfortunately it is becoming persistent so we now have to discuss the issue. first of all, i had the opportunity yesterday, during the one minute speeches, to hear the honourable member’s intervention on this issue, and i share his concerns. one could say that, relatively speaking, we have a low number of infections – for example, about 250 in italy as compared to more than 150 000 on the island of réunion a few years ago. however, the worrying thing is the trend. what is actually raising our concerns is the fact that we now have tropical diseases spreading in europe as a combination of climate change, which of course helps the proliferation and survival of the vector, and at the same time increased mobility, which allows the introduction of the virus via the movement of people coming from the tropics. it was important for us to take immediate measures. from the beginning the italian authorities reacted correctly, rapidly and effectively, so one can now say that the situation is at a much lower level, even though we still have on-going cases. the first thing the commission did was to take various measures, using existing instruments or adjusting these to deal with the situation. first of all we made sure that we offered technical support through the european centre for disease control, once again proving the wise choice of the european union in establishing such a centre. we now had to deal with this new threat and new form of challenge. we adapted our legislation and included vector-borne diseases in the list of diseases to be addressed as a priority. at the same time we asked member states – and this is a legal obligation on them – to notify the commission and other member states through the early-warning response system. it is very important to be able to detect cases as soon as possible in order to prevent the spread of the disease. the european centre for disease control (ecdc), in addition to the case definitions, also produced standard operating procedures and is updating them regularly. very importantly, we upgraded and strengthened laboratory capacity in order to detect and identify the chikungunya virus. we did this through the european network for diagnostics of ‘imported’ viral diseases, which is funded under the public health programme. also, through the same programme, we are funding joint activities with member states to further strengthen preparedness for public health emergencies. we had the opportunity to discuss in plenary a communication and action plan on generic preparedness, which was adopted in 2005. the system is in place and we can use it of course, and it has been used, but we will of course adapt it and adjust it to be able to deal with this form of health threat as well. information for the public is very important, and is something we also do through the ecdc, both for the areas affected and also for travellers. technical guidance documents on the rapid detection of cases of chikungunya fever are in place, as the cornerstone for an effective epidemiological surveillance. also, the ecdc has produced a robust package of technical guidance documents: information for health care workers; case definitions for chikungunya fever; and flow charts for identification of cases. these are available and are currently being used by the competent authorities to facilitate decision-making processes at national level. we are also dealing immediately with the issue of blood safety, which is an important factor as well, with the cooperation of the national competent authorities. however, if the situation persists, my services are ready to adopt a new donor-deferral rule for this disease as well. the new public programme and other instruments will also fund research in addressing many issues related to vector-borne diseases, as we also need to look at the issue of the insects themselves, and of course at global change through projects like eden, which concerns emerging diseases in a changing european environment. all this demonstrates how climate change has an immediate effect on health. in parallel, i should mention that we also have problems in animal health which have developed because of climate change. the european commission is planning to adopt a communication next year dealing with that aspect of climate change too.
member of the commission. first of all, the reference to dengue fever is also important because the same insect could also transmit the dengue disease to fresh meat, so this is also a concern for us. that is why we are preparing a report to deal with insect-borne diseases, because climate change helps their proliferation, as i said earlier, but also – because we have mild winters – the survival of insects which then transmit disease. you are right; there is no vaccination, which is a shame. the fact is that there is research on-going but i have to say at this point that we are quite far from having any results. of course, that is an issue we will be raising also with the who and will try, through our various instruments and policies, to encourage the development of these vaccines. if i may, i would like to also add one of my personal views, one i have been raising with the member states since the first discussions on avian flu: not only do we have a responsibility of solidarity towards developing countries, towards third countries in helping them deal with the health threat, but it is also a form of self-defence and we have to realise that we cannot consider ourselves as immune and protected in our cosy area here in the european union. we are not! therefore, it is very important to deal with the health threats all over the world as threats for the european union as well and making it as one of our priorities. the health strategy that we adopted today in the commission will be sent to parliament to be discussed with you as well. it includes a very important global aspect of the european union’s health policies, and i am optimistic that we can change and correct the situation through this new approach.
member of the commission. the commission is fully aware of the scale of the humanitarian needs inside iraq and its neighbouring countries. the commission’s response to this crisis is twofold. firstly, in order to support the refugees from iraq and neighbouring countries, the commission has immediately responded with the financial decision on eur 6.2 million in humanitarian aid, adopted in may 2007, to address the most urgent needs of the refugees. that assistance will be further increased to eur 7 million by the end of 2007. the commission has engaged with the governments of syria and jordan, which bear most of the burden of the refugee crisis, to develop assistance programmes. those governments have clearly indicated that they were not in favour of external humanitarian assistance programmes, implemented via international organisations and ngos. they expect the international community to support their national systems, mainly in the fields of education and health, as these systems also benefit iraqi refugees. consequently, the commission has identified quick impact projects for a total of eur 37.7 million, for which the commission is in the process of consulting member states. all these actions form the commission’s immediate response to the refugees’ most pressing needs. the commission realises that they only partially alleviate the enormous suffering and the pressure on the institutions and social fabric of neighbouring countries, and that is why it is currently further developing its response strategy in order to match it with appropriate funding. secondly, as far as the situation inside iraq is concerned, the commission is supporting the international committee of the red cross with, so far, eur 4 million, and is currently identifying additional solid and acceptable partners operational in iraq with a view to increasing its level of assistance. it has to be acknowledged that while there are significant humanitarian needs, there are also significant impediments to the delivery of humanitarian aid. these are severe security concerns and problems of access that prevent the commission and any other donor from allocating funds which are truly commensurate with the level of needs. there is in fact a dearth of humanitarian partners able to operate and implement programmes inside iraq that properly address the needs of the most vulnerable people. finally, the commission would like to recall that it is the main financial contributor to the international reconstruction fund facility for iraq, with a contribution of eur 123 million. that is, by the way, 46 % of the total contributions to date. since 2003, the commission has committed over eur 800 million in iraq.
member of the commission. i have already mentioned that the governments, especially the syrian government, which the honourable member referred to, have clearly indicated that they were not in favour of external humanitarian assistance programmes implemented via the international organisations and ngos. so the amount of assistance provided reflects the reluctance of the syrian and jordanian authorities to let international non-state actors, such as the un and ngos, intervene in their respective countries. our assistance can only be directed through organisations that are accepted by the local authorities and have sufficient operational capacity. this imposes a natural limit on what we can do. we are, however, working on capacity-building programmes and engaging in direct dialogue with the jordanian and syrian authorities to strengthen our implementing capacity in these countries. it should be noted, if i may say so, that the iraqi government itself seems very reluctant to assist its neighbours. the iraqi government has repeatedly declared it will allocate usd 25 million to assist iraqi refugees. however, although commitments were made at the sharm el-sheikh conference last may and relations were strengthened between iraqi, syrian and jordanian officials, it seems as though iraq is not cooperating sufficiently. we therefore have to ask the iraqi government to assume at least its financial responsibility for its own citizens. the lack of coordination among un agencies in managing humanitarian crises is of high concern. we note strong competition – and it is awful to say so – between the un humanitarian agencies, instead of close cooperation. we hope that the appointment of a new humanitarian coordinator will improve the ability of our un partners to address the crisis.
turkey, a candidate country for membership of the european union, recently launched military action in iraq against the iraqi kurds. how do you view such actions? how does that relate to the situation in iraq? what support will be needed and how would the commission assess turkey's actions?
vice-president of the commission. of course, the contract agents’ relationship with the employer is based on the contract which, at the same time, must be in accordance with laws and the labour market in these places, so there is no seniority system as we have in the case of permanent officials. therefore, this is a contract which is based on the conditions on the labour market and we have successfully recruited a lot of good contract agents.
vice-president of the commission. you asked about a breakdown by member state, for staff. that is available in our statistics. all the figures are available, so please contact our people and they will give you detailed numbers.
vice-president of the commission. pension rights and the pension system are, of course, one of the most complicated things in all europe. first of all, it should be mentioned that the 2007 budget provides for 23 198 posts for the commission. this question contains two sub-questions: on the action taken by the commission in terms of recruitment in order to limit the implications of the growing number of eu officials on the budget and on the impact of the growing number of eu officials on pension costs. for the first sub-question, it must be recalled that the reform of the staff regulations was put in place in 2004, inter alia, in order to curtail budgetary costs linked to the increase in institution staff. the new career and promotion structure and the new staff category of contractual agents were introduced with a view to having a positive impact on the budget. on the other hand, the honourable member might be aware that, during the 2007 budgetary procedure, the european parliament asked the commission to carry out a substantive screening exercise providing a mid-term evaluation of its staff needs and a detailed report on the commission’s staffing for support and coordination functions. the european parliament also wanted to be informed about the commission’s intentions concerning staff redeployment to address the priorities of the new interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management and, more particularly, those policies supported by parliament during the negotiations. as a result of the screening of the commission’s human resources carried out at the request of the european parliament, the commission confirms the need identified in 2002 and 2005 for additional staff exclusively in relation to enlargement-related tasks: 890 new staff for 2008, broken down as 640 new staff for eu-10 enlargement and 250 posts for eu-2 enlargement. for 2009, there is a confirmed need for a last wave of 250 posts for eu-2 enlargement. the commission endorses the decision to maintain stable staffing once all enlargement-related personnel are integrated, with no requests for new posts for the period 2009-2013. the commission commits to meet new staffing needs in key policy areas exclusively through redeployment within and between departments. the commission is committed to delivering the highest standards of value for money to the citizens it serves, delivering high quality service through increased efficiency. the commission has already shown its commitment to these goals in practice. over the period 2000-2007, figures show that the increase of establishment plan posts within the commission is lower than in the other institutions. for the second sub-question, it should be noted that the recruitment for the period 2004-2008 due to enlargement will only have an effect on the pension costs in 30 years, meaning that, in the near future, enlargement will have no impact on pension costs. nevertheless, the commission is extremely attentive to the growth of pension costs in the coming years. in the budget pension costs were expected to increase by 10% in 2008. this is due to exceptional circumstances. the higher-than-average increase in 2008 is a normal rebound after the lower-than-average increases for both 2006 and 2007. there will be the first round of departures of contract agents, whose contribution will have to be transferred to another scheme, and 3% annual expected increase of salaries and pensions. even with this exception, we estimate that the growth rate of pensions for the 2007-2013 period is compatible with an 8.5% average increase in expenditure taken into account for the 2007-2013 financial framework. concerning the long-term financial effects of the current wave of recruitments, the impact was analysed when preparing the reform of the staff regulations. measures have been taken to reduce the pension costs and the staff regulations require that the pension contribution rate paid by the employees, currently 10.25%, is updated yearly so that it corresponds to one-third of the total contribution required to guarantee the long-term equilibrium of the community pension schemes.
vice-president of the commission. yes, but as i said there will be a staff freeze after the enlargement, so this comparison with a municipality is not a similar situation. we have a big political project – the enlargement of the european union – and we have taken on new officials. this has been the same model as during all previous enlargements. we have been quite successful in recruiting people from new member states, and this will be frozen. after that, the overall number will be frozen.
commissioner, they say in brussels that if you pass all those tests and exams and you are admitted to the european commission as an official, then you will in any case have a quiet life until your pension. so i would like to ask about the quality of those who are working in the european institutions. perhaps the commission has some plans to make the lives of those who are not very industrious more difficult, to have some attestations and to make a clear difference between those who are doing their best and those who have too quiet and easy a life.
member of the commission. the answer to the first part of the question is a resounding 'yes': it goes back to the member states. it means that a member state is charged less for its contribution to the european budget. when, and that was your next question, which piece is final? it's very hard to say. it depends every year on the circumstances, whether one has been wise and has not gone for an appeal or still chooses a somewhat longer route and tries to get something out of it.
member of the commission. we hope that is a fact, but i am not 100% sure, and certainly not sure enough to be open and honest with you. we should take into account that it is not only the level of the fine, but also reputation, that is hopefully making a difference in the attitude of companies. i find it interesting that now quite a number of ceos of organisations who contact me mention that they are aware that this is real politics from the commission, and that those who are not behaving and are abusing the rules and regulations are being confronted with a huge fine. as you are aware, with our new fine level, that is indeed not sweet money anymore. having said that, they are taking the initiative within their own organisations to confront their own people, and saying that it should absolutely not be done any more in their companies. they are confronting them, if they are not taking the right measures, and saying that if something is rotten then they should mention it to the top, and that the fact is that later on they would be fired without any form of package. they also mention that damage to reputation, in combination with the fines, is a very important part of their attitude and their struggle to clean up the companies. a couple of them recently mentioned that they loved to be on the front page of the financial times but not because of our fines. that is indeed quite a good step forward.
this summer germany announced that it would raise food prices. at the same time, lithuanian producers announced that food prices would rise from autumn without objective reasons. do you see any cross-border cartels of food producers? when food becomes expensive in all countries at the same time, the finished products become expensive, and the cost of raw materials does not increase.
member of the commission. the commission has undertaken a preliminary assessment of the responses to the green paper, and that provided the basis for our orientation discussion on the subject today. that paves the way for an even more rigorous assessment, which will accompany the commission’s consideration and agreement on the proposals that it wishes to submit to member states on the basis of the review. i can assure the honourable member that information about the responses is – already, i believe – posted on the website of dg trade, but we shall also publish what is, i hope, an easily accessible version or presentation of the responses we have had to the green paper in order to allow good time for reflection on those responses to take place ahead of the submission by the commission of our proposals. the honourable member seems to have alighted already on certain aspects of the commission’s proposals which have not yet been submitted to or agreed to by the commission, so i suggest, with respect, that he is slightly jumping ahead of himself in some of the assumptions that he appears to be making.
my question is certainly based on conversations and discussions with lithuania, the business community of my country of election, the industrialists. in fact, i can repeat what my colleague said: there are a lot of concerns about the policy, the trade policy liberalization, the criticism as well. and yet my question is: if the position remains the same, how will the commission react? what can be expected from the commission? will you still be inclined to listen to the business world, or will other arguments seem more important to you?
for the alde group first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mantovani, on the preparation of this very important document. the main objective of this document is to enable the value of qualifications in the labour market and in the education system to be identified and compared. i am convinced that the european qualifications framework (eqf) will contribute to the efficiency and flexibility of the community labour market if it is used properly. but more importantly, the eca helps to reduce discrimination against immigrants and community citizens in the workplace. unfortunately, lithuania and other citizens of the european union are not yet able to use their qualifications in any of the community countries. they are often not recognised by employers or institutions. people feel discriminated against because they cannot compete on equal terms in the labour market. they are often forced to work in low-skilled and low-paid jobs. in my meetings with lithuanians living and working in london, i heard many grievances about discrimination and difficulties in finding qualified employment. people feel second-class, even though their qualifications and abilities are often superior to those of the nationals of the same country doing the same job. they do not get the job they want and the adequate pay simply because their qualifications are not recognised. so this document is very important to a lot of people. unfortunately, neither the commission nor the council, nor we in parliament, have been able to resolve this issue for 22 years. in 1985, the council also decided to introduce a system for the comparability of vocational training qualifications. it didn't work. unfortunately, we are not in a hurry to propose that this system be introduced until 2012. moreover, we leave it to the member states, appealing to their goodwill. it's a pity we're not efficient. we must learn from this.
it is regrettable that the launch of sis ii has been delayed several times and that we have adopted a resolution on this important matter today. the delay is such that solutions must be found to enable the use of the sis 1plus network after 13 november 2008. it is now clear that the human and financial resources that were earmarked for sis ii will be required for three simultaneous projects: sis ii, sis one4all, and the installation, operation and management of the communication infrastructure. this will have a negative impact on the implementation of sis ii. and i think that the fair distribution of funds between the community and the member states is very important, but in view of the importance of the project for the security of the european union, it is clear that sis ii is the highest priority and for the security of the european union, we should find and allocate sufficient funds for the communication infrastructure.
today we made a major decision on a thematic strategy for pesticide use. and i voted for this resolution. we all know that we breathe air that is harmful to human health, and we eat food that has been treated with chemicals that are harmful to our health. our children, the future generation, are also growing up in these conditions. i am fully convinced that the negative impact of pesticides on human health must be minimised. we must take decisive action and find sources of funding. the obligation on eu member states to draw up action plans identifying areas where the use of pesticides would be partially or totally banned and to significantly reduce their use over the next 10 years is welcome.
the report on traditional energy sources and energy technologies is of particular importance. life has forced the european union's member states to take a realistic view of energy in the eu and global markets - its sources, their diversity, the security of supply. i would like to emphasise the importance of nuclear energy as a safe, reliable and environmentally friendly energy. the figures seem to be convincing: germany, with 17 nuclear power plants, emits six times more co2 than france, with 59 nuclear plants. nuclear energy is particularly important for countries that do not have abundant natural conditions for renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, water, biomass, which are very expensive to exploit. and electricity is a very important service that needs to be available to everyone. that is why i voted in favour of the report and i want to stress that the eu must support the construction of nuclear and other environmentally friendly power stations.
so far, the eu leaders have only been able to agree on the alignment of indirect taxes excise duties and vat , with a minimum level, with a plethora of vat exemptions. it is doubtful whether a minimum excise duty on, for example, fuel increases the competitiveness of the economy. it is more likely to affect price increases and consumption decreases, especially with rising global prices, energy prices. the proposal to harmonise excise duties will become an unbearable burden for the new member states. the commission's proposal to create a common consolidated corporate tax base would have been more likely for the economies of the old 15 member states, which are at a similar level of development. such a proposal is a first step towards the harmonisation of corporation tax. the weaker economies of the new states will again bear the brunt of the burden. they will be deprived of the opportunity to use tax competition to boost economic growth and catch up with the old. i voted against the report as untimely, despite the amendments.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, serbia is naturally part of the european area and we all recognise that in recent years serbia has been faced with important and, more than important, with difficult challenges given its importance for the stability and development of the western balkans. the european union has sought to help serbia overcome the challenges it faces by strengthening and making more tangible and more visible the benefits of the european perspective. in this way we have tried to demonstrate to the serbian people and the authorities our commitment to serbia's accession to the european union. we are trying to show that there is an alternative, by helping the political and social forces which are pro-european and favour the pursuit of the necessary reforms, the consolidation of democracy and the development of the country. the stabilisation and association agreements are a fundamental step in bringing the western balkan countries closer to the union and an instrument which we believe is essential in realising their european perspective. in this connection, we consider it very positive that the commission has concluded negotiations with serbia for the conclusion of a stabilisation and association agreement. we sincerely hope that the conditions will soon be met for the commission to sign the agreement. there is strong political support in the council for signing the stabilisation and association agreement as soon as the conditions are met. however, before the council can act on the agreement, serbia must cooperate fully with the international criminal court. the possibility for people in serbia to travel to the european union more easily would also strengthen the ties between us and would undoubtedly contribute to the process of democratisation and to the pro-european union sentiment in serbian society. the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission, which were signed last september and will come into force in january 2008, are, in our view, of great importance. the commission has agreed with serbia to open a dialogue on visa liberalisation after the entry into force of these agreements. the union also made it clear to serbia that its integration process was not linked to the issue of determining the future status of kosovo. each country is progressing towards the european union on its own merits and in compliance with the conditionality of the stabilisation and association process and the copenhagen criteria. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate once again the importance which the presidency of the european union attaches to the opportunity to discuss with the european parliament the importance of the realisation of a european future for serbia for the country and the region. there is no doubt that the western balkans remains one of the european union's priorities, and our ultimate objective is to create a situation of peace, stability, democracy and prosperity in the region. the prospect of these countries joining the union is a key factor in this, and the stabilisation and association process remains the framework for preparing for eventual accession. serbia is a country of high geostrategic importance for the stability of the entire region, and progress in this process is therefore important for the achievement of the union's ultimate objective in the western balkans: that it is indeed a region of stability, peace and progress.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to congratulate mr kacin for his solid report, which captures the essential aspects of the current state of eu-serbia relations. i have asked my services to follow up on the recommendations of the report, which has already been useful in the preparation of the commission’s annual progress report, due to be adopted on 6 november. your report highlights a number of areas where both the european union and serbia need to intensify efforts, which i fully support. i particularly agree with the importance granted to visa facilitation and with the call for progress now to be made on visa liberalisation. precisely for that reason, the commission has indicated its intention to start a dialogue early next year, with each of the countries of the western balkans, on a roadmap for visa liberalisation, by defining its requirements and conditions. this issue is of immense importance, not least in terms of giving concrete evidence to the young generation of the region of what europe really means. we are at a very critical juncture in our relations with serbia. over the past fortnight i have had intense discussions with the council presidency, with member states and with the serbian authorities on the state of affairs. it will come as no surprise that the kosovo status process and the stabilisation and association agreement, including icty conditionality, were the main items. the deadline of 10 december for kosovo talks is fast approaching, and the work of the international troika is entering a crucial phase. we fully support the work of the eu’s representative, ambassador wolfgang ischinger, and we will leave no stone unturned in seeking a negotiated solution. it is now essential that the two parties – belgrade and priština – assume their responsibilities and engage seriously in constructive and creative proposals that can lead to a negotiated, sustainable solution. i have also had intensive discussions with member states and with the serbian authorities on the stabilisation and association agreement. that agreement will constitute a political milestone in our relations with serbia. it will be the gateway towards candidate status for membership of the european union. the commission has first negotiated and then finalised the technical work on the draft text of this agreement, which is currently being assessed by member states in the council working group. it is working intensively with the presidency and member states to complete a legal-linguistic review of the text so that we, as the european union, are technically ready to sign the agreement soon, provided that the political conditions are in place – namely full cooperation with the icty – which should lead to the arrest of the remaining indictees. this is, to my understanding, in line with the recommendation in your report, addressed to the council. concerning the icty, as i have said before, for the moment i see serbia’s part of the glass as being half full rather than half empty. i have made it clear to the serbian government that signature of the saa is within reach. it is now a question of political will and translating ability into results. we are ready, once serbia is ready by meeting the conditions. the ball is now clearly in serbia’s court. at the same time we should also appreciate the efforts serbia has made up to now. too often, these tend to be forgotten in our debates. since 2004, serbia has cooperated in locating and handing over 20 of the 24 icty indictees. that shows that our policy of conditionality works. however, icty cooperation cannot be a stop-start process, and more needs to be done to achieve full cooperation, especially concerning intensified search operations and access to archives and documents. the chief prosecutor will return to belgrade tomorrow for two days, and the commission will take her findings strongly into account when making our assessment on the initialing of the saa agreement. signature will then depend on full cooperation with the icty, and we will assess that together with the council. this requires serbia to do everything in its powers to locate and arrest the fugitives and to provide the icty with all the necessary information leading to their arrest and transfer to tribunal in the hague. to conclude, serbia indeed has tremendous economic, cultural and intellectual potential that is just waiting to be released in the pursuit of the country’s european future. the commission is fully committed to serbia’s european perspective. i am convinced that the country can make relatively rapid progress on its european road once it meets the essential conditions. that is crucial, not just for serbia’s european aspirations, but for the stability and progress of the whole western balkans. it is, therefore, high time for serbia to turn the page on its painful past, and to fully approach its european future.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, with winter just around the corner, the political atmosphere in serbia is heating up. that is why, by participating in the preparation of this report, the pse group is trying especially to grasp the situation of a nation that lost a privileged position in the former yugoslav federation, a nation where nationalist outbreaks have damaged the entire region, wrecked many lives, claimed a number of victims and received bombs and rockets in reply. in spite of everything, the majority of the country’s population wants nothing else than to follow the european path and, by doing so, to heal its own and its neighbours’ wounds. this report tries to help, in a friendly and yet demanding fashion, to draw the road signs for this important path. i would especially like to thank our colleague, mr kacin, who put into this report not only a lot of work but also sense and heart. i would like to emphasise the successful work of the pro-european serbian government in this not-so-easy situation. its activities have allowed the european parliament to suggest signing of the stabilisation and association agreement, perhaps even by the end of this year. yet whether the country will be able to turn a page in its relations with the eu depends largely on the serbs themselves. we, for our part, will keep strongly to our opinion that the agreement will be signed only when serbia shows results in capturing the remaining war criminals. the pse group has proposed a few amendments to the report which seek to soften the formulation of sensitive issues for serbs. these suggest, inter alia, changing the formulation of recital m to underline that inter-ethnic reconciliation is paramount for securing stability in the region. we are of the position that kosovo is a separate problem, which is why it remains almost untouched in this report. the solution to that problem should not divert serbia from the european path along which, after time, it is forecast to meet with kosovo and former yugoslav republics, and indeed with the rest of europe.
i would like to congratulate mrs martens on her report which gives an overview of the current state of eu-africa relations and suggests ways of improving them. i'm sorry, but africa is the poorest continent in the world. despite eu and other international support, poverty has increased over the past 25 years, not decreased. the achievement of the millennium development goals is being postponed. this is happening in africa, the world's most mineral-rich continent. one reason is the export of raw materials at the lowest prices and the import of expensive finished products. the transformation of the situation can be achieved through the development of the recycling industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, job creation in african countries and regional cooperation. there is no doubt that, as the report emphasises and as the european parliament always stresses, education is one of the most important factors in the development of an independent african economy. as for the future of africa, i would like to mention the military conflicts that have been going on for years, like in sudan. this is insecurity for both local and foreign investors on the one hand, and the opportunity for some countries to take advantage of conflicts and increase their extraction of raw materials on favourable terms on the other. the eu should make greater efforts with the international community to resolve military conflicts in africa, while at the same time making development cooperation support to africa more effective.
acting president of the council. mr president, as i said, i was the one who signed the agreement with moldova, this agreement on visa facilitation, and i can tell you how much this gesture, this initiative, this agreement has been appreciated and acknowledged by the moldovan government. it is indeed a very important instrument in our relations with moldova in the whole of the relations we have with the countries that are our neighbours. and i sincerely hope that this agreement will contribute, as we hope, to strengthening relations between the union and moldova and will above all strengthen the so-called 'human dimension' of the european neighbourhood policy, that is, bringing people closer together so that people can know each other better and better, because this undoubtedly strengthens the european spirit and understanding. the commission, in cooperation with the council, must of course check what is going on and, if necessary, make the necessary corrections. on the question of georgia, i take note of your comment, mr president.
is there any prospect of signing a visa facilitation agreement with belarus? lithuania, which has a large border with belarus, will not be able to invite guests on preferential terms or belarusian people will not be able to visit their relatives at the border. are such facilities provided for?
acting president of the council. the council is naturally awaiting and is awaiting with great interest the proposal that the commission will make to us in this connection, namely on the question of the possible creation of a civil protection force, and these suggestions, these proposals from the commission, are expected before the general affairs council meeting on 10 december, which is less than two months away. let us wait and see what the commission proposes to us and then naturally act accordingly.
i too would like to stress the importance of this issue and i am pleased that the council has approached the commission and is now awaiting a response from the commission. but i would like to ask how the council envisages the role of such forces in the face of an emergency? and how does the council, with all these floods, fires, climate change, what's happening now far away from us in america - how does it envisage the use of such forces in specific cases?
for the alde group i would like to thank the rapporteur for working with such a technical document, a very complex document, because statistical matters are not usually very interesting and attractive to public opinion. that's why we're taking this issue very late. however, i can only be pleased that mr frattini is present, although statistical questions are a matter of competence for mr almunia. but we are talking about large databases, whose protection, security and the way they are used must be clearly regulated, and i think mr frattini knows best how many problems we have with various databases, their use, their security and the possibility of using that information for improper purposes. this document therefore covers a number of issues that would help to avoid similar situations. another thing that pleases me is that this document will bring more transparency to the functions of the public administration. which i think is very important, and should be made available to the public. on the other hand, as a representative of the liberal and democratic group, i can say that i am nevertheless concerned that we have recently been discussing a very large number of documents relating to the collection of statistical data, the inclusion of new activities in various registers. and we're talking less and less about the benefits, the cost-benefits, that data collection provides us. i understand, as an economist i understand, the importance of that data in determining economic policy, in making various decisions, it's important to know, certainly, even from a security point of view, it's important to know the aspects of the activities of multinational companies in our european union, in our countries. as a representative of lithuania, a border country, a border country of the european union, i understand this particularly well. but still, at the beginning of my term, there was a lot of talk about doing an analysis, measuring how much it costs businesses, counting it. some member states were even preparing to do so. the netherlands, for example, has done this kind of work. unfortunately, this process has all but died down, and i can only regret that in this case too, the possibility of reducing the burden on business by creating a variety of european models, european small sample groups, to deal with the entire european statistical base, has not been considered.
today we have completed the first reading of the 2008 budget of the european union and voted in favour of a draft budget which provides for more than eur 129 billion for commitments and more than eur 124 billion for payments in 2008. compared with the european commission's proposal, we want to increase the payment appropriations for next year from 0.97% to 0.99% of the gross national income of the european union. i would like to point out that this increase is justified and relates to important projects such as the implementation of the galileo satellite navigation system and the european institute of technology project. i think it was very important to allocate additional funds to our commitments in kosovo and palestine, i.e. the fourth category: the european union as a global partner.
for the alde group ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent result a well-balanced report. the main task of the euratom supply agency is to ensure the regular and fair supply of nuclear materials to all consumers in the european union. almost five decades have passed since the adoption of the agency's statutes. a lot has changed, and new statutes have been necessary to take account of the increase in the number of members of the european union and the need to apply modern financial provisions to the agency. the financial provisions of the new statutes are in line with the general financial regulation of the european communities and are adapted to the enlarged european union. the statute was subject to certain difficulties due to the mixed nature of the agency. it is clear that the agency has for many years functioned in practice as a service of the commission, although it was established under the euratom treaty as an agency with legal status and considerable financial autonomy. otherwise it would not need the statutes which commission departments normally lack. the nature of its tasks makes it relevant to certain member states and therefore it is not a typical decentralised agency in the sense in which the latter term is currently used in the european union. i am pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy has reached a general agreement on the number of members of the agency's advisory committee. with all due respect to the commission, i would point out that the proposal to reduce the committee's influence and number of members to 42 was not the best one, especially when the commission recommends the creation of structures, instruments such as the energy monitoring service, to create an effective european energy policy. the committee shall assist the agency in the performance of its tasks by delivering opinions and providing information. it acts as an intermediary between the agency and the producers and consumers of nuclear energy. the committee's wide-ranging expertise could be of great help to the agency in the performance of its treaty-related tasks. i also welcome the fact that there is no limit to the number of terms of office of the members of the advisory committee. this will ensure the stability of the committee and the continuity of its competence. this amendment is important for small countries, in this case my country lithuania, and other countries, and i welcome and support it.
mr president, the joy of the magnificent christmas present among the 21st century new european citizens is understandable. the expansion of the schengen area – this special portuguese flavour – is a historic event of great psychological and symbolic magnitude, lifting not only the borders and divisions in europe. yet, whilst for us it is now possible to travel from the baltic vilnius to the atlantic lisbon, a new european curtain is being pulled in front of ukraine, russia, moldova and belarus, a financial and bureaucratic one in place of that very old iron. not so long ago, our neighbours could travel visa-free to many new schengen countries, but now they must pay between eur 35 and 60. this is a quarter or even a third of a monthly salary in some of these countries. we do not need the fortress of europe while the schengen acquis, with some improvements, is the key to a stronger and more inclusive europe.
i cannot but welcome the extension of the schengen area, which will come into force at the end of this year. schengen, like roaming, is the most familiar and understandable term for all citizens of the european union. they are not hard to sense, and they affect all of us. for many, it is associated with a united europe. the accession of 9 new countries is a historic step not only for lithuania but for europe as a whole. for lithuania, this is another consistent step towards deeper and more comprehensive european integration. it took a lot of work and effort to get ready. i am pleased that the experts have welcomed this effort and that all 9 candidates who 'pass the exam' will be able to join. i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for finding a solution to the schengen information system that will allow our countries to survive for a few more years.
today we are concluding the discussions on the application of the schengen acquis to the nine new member states. it is a good thing that the enormous work done by the acceding countries, the existing member states and the commission has been crowned with victory. the creation of the schengen area is one of the eu's largest and most successful projects. the implementation of this system after the 2004 enlargement, when the problems of the sis ii were faced, was a matter of genuine solidarity between the member states. portugal has proposed a version of sisone4all, which will open the land borders between 15 and 9 countries before this christmas. this is not only an extension of freedom of movement in europe, but also a rational solution to help new member states avoid the losses caused by the delay in the introduction of sis ii. the sis4oneall, which will be operational for almost a year, will facilitate the movement of people and have a positive impact on the growth of the economies of the countries.
member of the commission. i can understand the question and the remarks of the honourable member, but it is undeniable that the effects of climate change will affect the most vulnerable countries first. it is essential that the bali negotiations can initiate a process which takes this fact into account and that the most vulnerable countries themselves become aware of this. three groups are essential within the united nations, the g77 and the european union: the ldcs group, the small island developing countries group and the overseas countries and territories group. we have invited these three groups to the european development days. maldives is leading the ldc working group on climate change at the united nations. so there is no other reason for this invitation. on the final day of the conclusions, the cuban vice-minister also addressed the panel. i had to make some corrections following his speech because some of his remarks were clearly inappropriate, or at least out of place. i took this opportunity to point out that there was something good about democracy, since people could freely express their opinions, including sometimes shocking ones. so i understand your point very well, but here it is quite difficult to ignore the maldives when it is a very representative country of a real situation of vulnerability.
member of the commission. the rapid growth of urban areas in developing countries is a continuing trend. in recent years, the number of people living in cities has increased dramatically. among developing countries, africa is also the region with the highest urban growth in the world. its urban population has tripled in the last 25 years, and is expected to double again by 2030. this very large demographic gap has led to the rapid expansion of slums and unsanitary construction, often on difficult terrain, and in the urban peripheries. insecurity of employment, the informal market for land and housing and the lack of specialised services particularly affect the poorest of the urban population and undermine the ability of cities to provide safe environments for their population and for their growth. the fight against poverty under the millennium development goals is the objective of the commission's development policy and guides the commission's action in all its activities in this field. the commission supports sustainable urban development through good governance and good urban management. aid to urban areas is provided in the context of the fight against poverty and the improvement of the quality of life of people living in slums is therefore supported as part of a comprehensive approach to supporting better management of cities. the commission's urban strategy targets people living in slums through a series of programmes in the geographical areas covered by our development programmes. this is the case in latin america, which benefited from the urb-al programme, and in asia, with the asia-urbs programme. (the president asked the speaker to speak more slowly) it is a long answer, and i am a little afraid that members will not be patient to listen until the end of my speech, but i will speak more slowly. for the african, caribbean and pacific states groups, the commission provides financial support for global initiatives and programmes focusing on improving slums, namely the cities alliance and the un-habitat programme. the aim of cities alliance is to improve the impact and efficiency of urban development cooperation by improving the living conditions of the urban poor and by developing slum improvement programmes at the urban and national levels. in 2007, the commission joined the cities alliance. cities alliance focuses on the urban poor and the urban poor. the ultimate goal is to promote sustainable urban development. through the alliance, the commission promotes an inclusive and participatory approach to urban development and shares its objectives of improving slums. in 2007, the commission approved a €4 million grant from the 9th european development fund to support the regional programme for the modernisation of slums. the programme aims to improve regional, national and local dialogue and exchanges, as well as policy development experiences for the improvement of slums. regional slum improvement plans, feasibility studies and capacity building will be funded by the programme. a particular area in which the commission is active is to improve the conditions of slums, particularly for water and sanitation. improving access to water and sanitation in urban and peri-urban areas is obviously an integral part of our sectoral policy. in the specific case of the urban poor, particular emphasis is placed on improving decentralised and municipal operators and service providers. in africa, where most public services and municipalities are not performing well, there is a need to reform their management and financial management to improve distribution, especially if investments are to be attracted. these public services need to be strengthened, particularly in relation to tariff fixing, payment recovery and the operational part of maintenance. you know that we also have a water facility, funded by the 9th european development fund, which provides access to water and sanitation to the poor and the most vulnerable in urban and peri-urban areas. there were two calls for proposals to facilitate access to water and sanitation services for the poorest and most vulnerable. there were 175 projects implemented for a contribution of €416 million from the commission across the acp. of these, a total of 38 projects incorporate urban actions and 29 projects incorporate peri-urban actions. water is the focal theme of most of these activities. it is supported by a sanitation or sanitary component. the total investment for the water facility in urban and peri-urban areas is approximately eur 191.7 million. due to the poverty status of many beneficiaries in the slums and the poorest areas of these environments, most if not all projects have a poor benefit component where tariff adjustments are included. what i can add, as i leave the novel i was given, is that i met the head of un-habitat and had a long talk with her. i asked her to help us prepare the next development days, which will take place at the end of next year. the main theme will be local government and decentralisation - this is one of the main themes, there will be a second one, media and development - and i asked him to prepare this theme with us, because the question of the extreme densification of city centres and capitals in particular is a real question of development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are working on this a lot and i will probably have the opportunity to come back with a communication precisely on this subject - land use planning in developing countries - because it is a real subject. if you take kinshasa, for example, there are over 6 million people living in kinshasa. it is obvious that it has become unmanageable in terms of security, services, sanitation projects, etc. we are in any case very sensitive to the question raised by the honourable member.
member of the commission. you may be right, but i have already had occasion to deal with this aspect of rural development recently. you are aware that the 10th european development fund places more emphasis on rural development and investment in agriculture, in particular, than the 9th european development fund, in which budgets for rural development and agriculture projects represented 9% of the appropriations. in the 10th european development fund, this proportion is just over 12%. the figure for the ninth european development fund has gone from eur 666 million to eur 1 100 million for the tenth fund. we are naturally encouraging this development and i agree with you that it is one of the best answers ... along with spatial planning. if we want to reduce congestion in the city centres, give the poor who live in the city centres a better chance of living and attract them to the countryside, we must of course develop agriculture. we also need to have infrastructure for opening up, for interconnection, for social and health services. so we are working on all these parameters and i share your point of view even though i have not touched on that issue. other solutions may be considered but you are absolutely right and rest assured that we are making this a major concern. at the european development days, this issue was discussed in detail by kofi annan, who set up a foundation to help rural areas and develop agriculture.
member of the commission. there will be statistics, but they are country-by-country statistics, when we receive them, and when the systems for collecting statistics are reliable. at any rate, i cannot assure you that we will have complete statistics on these questions. this is especially true since the definitions vary widely from one country to another. so we're working on it. normally, when the evaluation is done and i report back, we will already have - i hope - a number of elements to inform your request for information. however, i cannot promise you today that we have reliable and accurate statistics on this matter. that's one of the things we're working on right now. we have already done research in other international organizations. the data obtained are generally very incomplete and often questionable, because the data available and the methods for quantifying these statistics are not always reliable.
people from the countryside moved to the cities in search of work. what measures are envisaged, what programmes are being implemented in the member states to support not only agriculture but also the creation of jobs in all other regions, not just in rural areas? i have heard that in mozambique, for example, only 5% of all aid is allocated to infrastructure and job creation. does that sound good enough to you?
member of the commission. firstly, it is not humanitarian aid that, in principle, funds the programmes for putting people to work, but development programmes. so it's not the humanitarian aid programs. we are financing labour-intensive programmes in a number of countries, especially in post-conflict countries, such as rwanda, burundi and the drc. there are a whole series of labour-intensive programmes that we fund, including road building, road re-shaping, minor maintenance work, etc. to enable people to get a job. that's the first element. secondly, i take this opportunity to remind you that what the commission is trying to do at the moment - whether we like it or not, whether we have an opinion or not, but since this is a free debate, i will say it anyway - the economic partnership agreements that we are trying to conclude today with the regions of the developing countries are aimed precisely at creating a dynamic and a private sector that is conducive to job creation, wealth creation, prosperity creation, and above all, ensuring that the developing countries are able to gradually open their markets to take advantage of the most positive effects - although i know that there are not only positive effects - of globalisation. i am also always very surprised to find that many of you in this house are also opposed to the conclusion of economic partnership agreements. when you consider that a one percent increase in trade in africa is equivalent to two and a half times the total of official development assistance in africa, you will understand that there can never be sustainable development in poor countries without more prosperous economies. to answer your question, you should know that there are emergency responses, especially in the post-conflict period, and that we are trying to provide them. in fact, the financing is for the start-up of work and for labour-intensive works. these are immediate responses. it's an emergency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no other miracle. it is not realistic to think that we should, for example, finance - i have heard this before - public employment. in some countries, 60 to 70 percent of the population is under 25 years of age. you can't create public jobs for all this population. the only answer to this problem must be economic. so there are two elements. first, agriculture, which is important because it creates sustainable employment that can feed a whole family. in recent years, perhaps not enough has been invested in agriculture. the second element is, of course, the economy. it is essential to create and consolidate integrated regional markets so that these populations can benefit from globalisation and the economic boom.
member of the commission. helping governments in developing countries to improve transport safety, including road transport, is one of the commission's priorities for development cooperation in the transport sector. this is reflected in the commission's policies. the need for appropriate policies to promote transport safety is a key point in our ongoing sectoral dialogue with partner governments and internal guidelines recommend incorporating certain safety measures into the design of road projects funded by the commission. an evaluation of the commission's transport intervention in developing countries completed in 2004 noted that safety considerations were taken into account in most road projects. for example, most road projects included extensive road signalling and speed limits, and many projects included widening of sidewalks to allow safe passage for non-motorised vehicles and pedestrians. in some countries, the commission has financed interventions specifically aimed at road safety, such as the drafting of a road code and the equipping of vehicle control centres, notably in albania, and the introduction of vehicle safety control regulations in mali. an ongoing project in cameroon is funding physical works, including safety slides to improve safety on the main douala-yaoundé road, as well as a road safety awareness campaign. clearly, more can be done. progress depends first and foremost on the commitments of partner governments to raise awareness of road safety, collect and analyse accident data, introduce laws, rules and standards, and establish and strengthen organisations responsible for the overall implementation of safety policies.
member of the commission. i don't know if that question is directed at me. do you want to talk about development, or is it a more general question, because i do not feel that it was addressed specifically to me as the commissioner for development. as regards mr higgins' question, i think i have answered it, but it is obvious that in the context of road infrastructure projects, in particular, which we finance, there are generally maintenance conditions, but there are also other conditions. we have funded a road code, for example, and it goes without saying that what we are doing in europe can be an inspiration to those countries. as regards the question which was put to me more directly, i do not feel that i am competent to answer it, but i would like to pass it on to my colleague, mr barrot, if you wish. i will do that, i will pass the question on to my colleague.
member of the commission. i am not opposed to the european union contributing and helping. i mentioned the case you mentioned, the traffic code. clearly this can be part of a project that the commission could fund in the context of good governance, consolidating the rule of law or strengthening the capacity of states, for example. that is what we are doing. as regards roads, it is true that in certain places, particularly where it is known that there is a lot of pedestrian traffic, efforts are also being made to improve the roadside, and to take preventive measures in the field of road safety. the political dialogue generally deals with all these issues, but the message we should also send to our partners from time to time is that they too must take these political issues on board. when i hear questions like this, i always wonder, "are we going to be asked to do everything for them?" we can't be asked to do everything. we can inspire, we can suggest, we can finance, we can help, but we cannot go and govern for those who must govern. it's becoming a bit of a christmas tree. development cooperation is asked to do just about anything and everything. you also have to understand that with the budgets i have, i have to focus on the big priorities. mr mitchell rightly emphasized the objectives of the millennium. that is the main priority. we are ready and we are funding, but the partner countries have to ask for it. it's a condition. in the course of dialogue, we sometimes try to suggest such things. mr bowis is not here, but i can tell you, by way of example, that i am trying to integrate more and more into development policies a concern of our partners for disabled people. the problem of disabled people is not generally taken into account by the partner states or by the partner governments. so there are a whole series of collateral effects or policies that we are trying to suggest, that we are trying to implement, but remember that we can only fund projects if the partners request or request it. of course, as the european union funds a large number of roads and road infrastructure, this element - at any rate road safety - is often an integral part of the debate and discussion.
it is estimated that the annual losses incurred by the european union countries as a result of accidents and their consequences amount to about 2% of the gross domestic product of the european union countries. 2 percent is a huge loss. are there similar estimates in the third world, in developing countries, is that percentage higher or lower? there's less traffic there, maybe less? and, given that the commission cannot work for the countries themselves, are those same countries studying the experience of the european union, which has nevertheless managed to reduce the number of accidents in the countries by 50 percent in the last five years?
many eu citizens are concerned about the changing environment in which they live as a result of globalisation, and we as politicians need to prepare a response. parliament often calls on the member states to prepare a common strategy, but i would say that we should start with ourselves. because this resolution was very difficult to prepare and it was also very difficult to put the opinions of all the committees together in one place, i would first of all suggest that we consider whether we should try more often to put the opinions of our various committees and all the resolutions together in one, in order to have a coordinated response to the citizens of the european union, which is what we are going to do. the other thing that's important, of course, is our role as a global player. and i want to emphasize here that we have to take an active position in the world. the european union is now the biggest thanks to enlargement, thanks to new opportunities, and we, whether we like it or not, play the biggest role. but it's like we're waiting for something to happen. our foreign policy must be active through the external dimension of the lisbon strategy. as far as internal policy is concerned, i would also say that we have to reassess our priorities, because, as the latest research shows, the european union is lagging behind in terms of productivity growth, not because we have too few computers, too little high technology, but because we simply have problems with management. we are not exploiting the opportunities of the single market, we are not creating conditions for the movement of goods, for the development of the financial market. and the question is, will the european union really prioritize the production of technology in the future, or will it prioritize the production of food, as experts are now threatening us? so basically we have to have a new approach to our economic market and use the development of the internal market as a priority. as regards social policy, which has been mentioned many times here, yes, it must be one of the important priorities on our agenda, but it must also be active. we have to give up the tendency to support some poor people or something, we have to provide opportunities for them to earn. we don't need to push people into a position of being conservative, people need to be active participants in the world, they need to be active participants in the market. so we need to invest in those social areas that will help build up intellectual capital in the future and bring about greater productivity growth in the future. and in conclusion, i would like to say that it is very important to strengthen coordination between our european union institutions, and this resolution and today's debate are just such an example of good coordination. i hope that in future we will have the opportunity to discuss these issues not only in night sessions but also during the day.
today we voted on a resolution based on the report by thierry cornillet on the european consensus on humanitarian aid. i would like to thank the rapporteur and reaffirm my support for this important document. we are well aware that the european union is the leading provider of humanitarian aid, both for the commission and for the eu member states, with an eu contribution in this area of over €2 billion in 2006 alone. i fully agree that the eu must define what it believes should be the new frontiers of humanitarian action. on the other hand, the eu must define its position on new international initiatives and the reform process initiated by the united nations. as a member of the committee on budgets, i would also like to highlight the third problem which the eu has to solve, namely the need to coordinate community and member state resources as much as possible in order to make them more effective for the victims of humanitarian disasters. i hope that the ep's position - concrete and precise - will help us achieve our common objectives and contribute to the eu's consensus on humanitarian aid.
mr president, i requested explanations of votes on the eu-russia summit resolution. i regret that some important paragraphs have been sacrificed for some strange reason, in order to have a shorter resolution instead of having a longer resolution but covering important issues. i think it is very important to call on the commission and the council to pursue joint initiatives with the russian government aimed at strengthening security and stability in the common neighbourhood, in particular by means of enhanced dialogue over ukraine and belarus and joint efforts to finally resolve the frozen conflicts in nagorno-karabakh as well as in moldova and georgia by guaranteeing the full territorial integrity of those states and, as far as transnistria is concerned, by withdrawing the remaining russian troops, who if necessary should be replaced by a force of international monitors.
mr president, after having voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu-russia summit, i still regret that the amendment i proposed as a new recital was rejected by the rapporteur. therefore i quote it now, ‘whereas russian federation did not fulfil any commitments of those undertaken by its accession to the council of europe in 1996 and two years ago bluntly denounced already signed new border agreement with eu member state estonia, thus leaving this sector of eu-russia border unregulated up to now; whereas the actual legislation of russia federation still contains aggressive positions as that on social privileges for its military servicemen in a case of losses caused or injuries got during armed actions in baltic states, or that about procedures of accession of foreign states or their parts with russian federation’. i am convinced that those positions will be reconsidered by this house later.
we know that the european neighbourhood policy aims to create a credible ring of security and stability around the european union, to develop not only the eu's close ties with its neighbours but also with each other, and to enable these countries to pursue democratic reforms based on respect for human rights, the rule of law and economic and social development. the question is: how much are we willing to pay to achieve these goals? in the light of past experience, i would say that the european neighbourhood policy requires sufficient funding and 11 billion euros for seven years for 16 countries is not, in my view, a lot. better coordination of financial instruments and policies is an integral part of better funding of the european neighbourhood policy, and the eu budget reform process that has begun is a great opportunity to lay a solid foundation for a much more effective future european neighbourhood policy. and i completely disagree with mr flüger that this is a waste of eu taxpayers' money. the second point i would like to make is related to the relations between the eu's neighbouring countries. it is important that they have good relationships with each other to support each other. i have no doubt that many problems could be solved more successfully by their concerted efforts. to this end, the european parliament should clearly and unequivocally advocate the establishment of a euro-nest, i.e. an eu neighbourhood eastern parliamentary assembly, and demonstrate not only the political will but also the financial support for the implementation of this idea. the 'euro-nest' would not only give a new impetus to the more effective implementation of the european neighbourhood policy, but also significantly strengthen the parliamentary dimension of this policy, in which the european parliament could carry out its mission with dignity.
on behalf of the alde group ukraine is a strategically and economically important partner of the eu and an eastern neighbour, playing an important role in the region and beyond. the eu-ukraine relations are focused on strengthening political cooperation and gradually deepening economic integration. the implementation of these guidelines will contribute to further consolidating democracy and developing a market economy in ukraine. but ukraine's development success does not depend solely on the eu. ukraine must itself clearly choose a pro-western direction and consistently implement it. i would like to say a few words about the eu's economic and trade relations with ukraine. first, the opening of negotiations on a free trade area with the eu by ukraine is closely linked to ukraine's accession to the wto. however, the negotiations on a free trade area will not only involve the abandonment of tariffs (as envisaged in the wto negotiations) but also wider convergence liberalisation of the services sector, institutional reforms, harmonisation of the legal framework with the eu acquis. therefore, the coordinated eu-ukraine action to establish a free trade area should be pursued in parallel with ukraine's accession to the wto. secondly, more attention should be paid to the implementation of good governance practices, the strengthening of the public sector, the fight against corruption. increased cooperation in these areas would significantly contribute to more stable economic and trade relations between the eu and ukraine, strengthen democratisation and act as a factor in strengthening ukraine's prospects for possible eu membership. thirdly, it is important to emphasise that ukrainian producers are not yet properly prepared to compete with those from eu countries and therefore it is necessary to provide for transitional periods and to establish supervisory authorities capable of protecting and offsetting the negative consequences for the ukrainian economy and society. the eu should provide technical and financial assistance for the adaptation of ukrainian industry to eu standards. fourth, the eu, which supports the liberalisation of trade with ukraine, must be prepared for possible difficulties related to the resistance of ukrainian producers, especially those exporting to cis countries, to the introduction of eu standards; the desire of the authorities to maintain the existing status quo and the corrupt links that have been established. the eu has also been active in promoting the development of the ukrainian economy and the development of the ukrainian economy. fifth, the increasing intensity of the eu's relations with ukraine will potentially increase negative russian political and economic pressure on ukraine. in this case, the eu should not act as a passive arbiter, as it has often done so far, but as a defender of its own interests and those of ukraine. the eu should not only seek to resolve potential energy problems at the highest level, but also to include ukraine in the emerging eu common energy policy area and to pursue energy security for ukraine and the eu.
on 18 october, in portugal, president yushchenko said that ukraine must join the wto this year. ukraine has already concluded all negotiations with the wto countries except kyrgyzstan, which is demanding the cancellation of its 27 million us dollars debt from the soviet era. ukraine's accession to the wto will result in lower import duties and an increase in the number of importers. however, it should be noted that ukraine needs to implement systemic economic reforms. despite positive developments such as ukraine's wto membership, public sentiment is associated with expectations of serious reforms. ukraine is developing rapidly. ukraine has seen strong gdp growth in recent years, but there is still a lot of work to be done to improve economic productivity and competitiveness. in the 2007-2008 world competitiveness report of the world economic forum, ukraine has dropped from 69th to 73rd place. we would also be negatively attuned to the unlimited influence of the oligarchs. ukraine is a strategic partner of the eu and it is therefore necessary to develop the integration of ukraine in such important sectors as energy, bilateral trade. the important role of ukraine in ensuring the security of energy supply of the european union should be fully taken into account. the potential for ukraine to integrate into the trans-european networks needs to be supported, as ukraine can play a strategic role as a transit country for oil and gas supplies to europe. i hope that ukraine has turned to political stability after the elections to the verkhovna rada. i believe that the european union must continue its open door policy towards ukraine.
if someone were to ask me today which of the european neighbourhood policy countries is closest to the european union, i would answer without hesitation: ukraine. this huge country of 46 million people not only boasts the democratic gains made after the collapse of the soviet union, but it has also become one of the eu's most promising partners. as a member of the european parliament delegation, i had the opportunity to observe the parliamentary elections in this country a little over a month ago and to see that ukraine is clearly strengthening democratic, civil institutions, that the democratic tradition is becoming the identity of ukraine, and that the elections in this country are essentially no different from those in the eu member states. looking at the map, it is clear that the situation in ukraine (eu on one side, russia on the other) cannot be easy. the choice, the answer to the question qua vadis, ukraine? is also not easy. but it is clear that ukraine today must make a choice and choose irrevocably. this choice does not mean that all long-standing trade and economic relations with russia and the cis countries are broken or that russia cannot participate in the ukrainian economy, rather the opposite. however, for example, the recent russian proposal for a common economic area agreement would harm rather than help ukraine's quest for economic independence and would also undermine the prospect of a free trade agreement with the european union. i would like to emphasise that the eu and its institutions, and the member states must offer and provide political and diplomatic assistance to ukraine in order to successfully complete its accession to the world trade organisation (wto). support for the next steps in the formal negotiations on a free trade agreement and a new comprehensive eu-ukraine agreement is equally important. in conclusion, i would like to thank my polish colleague, mr zbigniew zaleski, for his excellent report, and i would like to wish my ukrainian colleagues the completion of the formation of the new government as soon as possible and the start of the great and serious work that lies ahead.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a short but very informative debate. let me summarize it this way. the debate showed that the overall position, the overall concept of the commission, the overall main idea of the communication, found support in parliament. the debate naturally raised some sub-issues which can be taken into account in future debates, such as the movement of small arms and many other ideas which, in my view, greatly enrich the overall concept.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs lynne's rapporteur on a very interesting and comprehensive report. i am pleased that the european parliament has chosen to address the very broad range of social issues contained in this report, issues that urgently need to be addressed. this report is an important contribution to the ongoing assessment of the social reality. this document comes at a time when the commission and the member states are exploring the possibility of strengthening the social dimension of the lisbon strategy. we must respond to the concerns of our citizens, while being aware that social justice is one of their key concerns. opinion polls show that the european union should play a key role in promoting more integrated and cohesive societies. as president barroso said yesterday morning during the priority debate on globalisation, the european union has made fairly significant progress towards the lisbon objectives. new jobs are being created. last year alone, 3.5 million new jobs were created. the unemployment rate has fallen to around 7%. it's still too high, but it's the lowest in the last ten years. economic growth has been satisfactory despite recent financial instability. but contentment is not appropriate. the implementation of the lisbon strategy is uneven and not all objectives have been achieved so far. 12 million people are still out of work; and often young or long-term unemployed with poor prospects for career advancement or social advancement. 8% of european workers remain at risk of poverty, despite having a job. 78 million europeans are at risk of poverty and one in five eu citizens live in substandard conditions. in short, more needs to be done to meet our common social objectives. now that we are seeing the positive results of the european union's strategy for growth and jobs, it is time to start looking at social objectives. i welcome the fact that the report mentions the necessary political will and commitment to tackle poverty and exclusion. i also feel the urgency of tackling child poverty, fighting discrimination and promoting diversity. this of course means monitoring the transposition of the relevant legislation into national law and, if necessary, initiating infringement proceedings against member states found to have infringed european union law. the report also examined the barriers that prevent people from integrating into society and participating in the labour market. i agree that we need to combine support measures with appropriate safety nets to ensure that no one is left behind. this approach is reflected in the commission's recent communication on active inclusion. this communication identifies three key pillars of a balanced and strategic approach to active inclusion: access to integrated labour markets; improved access to services; appropriate income support. the communication also launches the second phase of the consultation of the social partners on this issue to deepen european union cooperation on active inclusion. following this consultation, the commission intends to propose common principles for active inclusion in the form of a commission recommendation, which is planned to be adopted in the second half of 2008. in a further communication to be adopted in the coming weeks, the commission will also present new measures to promote the active inclusion of people with disabilities. the commission is grateful to the european parliament for its continued efforts to combat discrimination. as announced in the 2008 legislative and work programme, the commission will present proposals in 2008 to address the current protection gap under article 13 of the treaty. the proposal, which is expected to be adopted by next summer, will build on a long-term dialogue with the european parliament, the experience of the european year of equal opportunities for all in 2007 and a wide-ranging public consultation. the european union has made significant progress in achieving gender equality, with the european parliament being an important partner. however, we need to continue to strengthen gender equality. it is a fundamental right, but also a necessary condition for achieving europe's goals of growth, employment and social cohesion. i therefore particularly welcome the attention paid to gender equality in the report. since the treaty of amsterdam, the union has made progress in taking account of equality between women and men in all areas and, since 2003, in providing equal opportunities for people with disabilities. however, much work remains to be done in both areas. the fact that discrimination on more than one ground of discrimination persists is a strong argument for the continued emphasis on equal opportunities in all areas. this will be the subject of a commission communication planned for 2008, which will draw on the lessons of the 2007 european year. ladies and gentlemen, the social reality of the european union is of course changing as our societies evolve, as the global concept changes. however, i am convinced that the basic concept of a balance between economic, social and environmental aspects remains fully valid. it is therefore up to us to keep looking for new approaches to overcome the problems that still persist.
for the alde group i congratulate my colleague lyz lynn on the report and the political compromise on a common approach by the political groups to the social reality of the community. it is true that member state governments have a direct responsibility for poverty reduction. they must find the means to put people to work, to send children to school, to give social assistance to the poorest. however, the role of the community in tackling inequality and poverty is no less important. the fact that 78 million european citizens are still living in poverty and the social gap between the poor and the rich is widening is the strongest signal for action at both national and european level. in most member states, minimum incomes are guaranteed. unfortunately, employers do not always comply with these requirements and break the law. i have mentioned many times that lithuanians working abroad face such violations. we cannot tolerate this kind of behavior from employers. i welcome the response of member states to the council's call to reduce child poverty. but they have not said what they will do to end child poverty. disabled and elderly people are particularly vulnerable. we need to provide them with at least a minimum of long-term care at an affordable price. the social fund is devoted to this. unfortunately, in my country, they're not used. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to exchange good practices and to build on the successes of social protection. we must learn from the experience of those countries which have used community funds efficiently. ladies and gentlemen, to win the confidence of citizens in europe and its institutions, we must solve the most pressing issues. president sarkozy of france, speaking in this chamber, said that the french feel that europe is not taking care of them and is not providing them with social protection. in france, people did not vote against the constitution, they did not vote for a europe in which they feel insecure. the commission promises to produce a report which will provide an overview of the social reality and examine social trends. i very much hope that the report will focus on the action programme. a programme that will propose ways to reduce or even eliminate poverty among citizens in europe. then we can count on their support and feel that we are working for our people.
on behalf of the alde group. – i would like to suggest changing the heading of the first part to read: ‘external lisbon dimension’. that is to say, to change ‘external policies’ to ‘external lisbon dimension’.
mr president, the european parliament recently adopted a wise resolution on relations with one of its neighbouring states. i would like to quote you some actual lines. please listen carefully and free from any fear: ‘whereas the’ russian ‘public is not sufficiently informed about the extent of the crimes committed in the’ second world war, ‘most notably in’ finland, the baltic states, katyń and the königsberg region; parliament ‘believes that the citizens of’ russia ‘are entitled to be told the truth about the … policies of war and genocide committed in their name and to have knowledge of the perpetrators of war crimes’; parliament ‘believes that’ russia ‘must honestly confront its’ soviet ‘past in order to progress and that coming to terms with the past is an integral part of the road to reconciliation with’ russia’s ‘neighbours’. it was, indeed, addressed by our parliament – to serbia, which appreciated our suggestions, but, as this house does not exercise double standards, the same forms of encouragement are to be used in our documents regarding russia.
mr president, last weekend in russia - in moscow and st petersburg - there was a brutal crackdown on russian citizens who tried to express their disapproval of the policies of the present russian authorities in a civilized and completely acceptable way. the leader of the opposition "another russia" garry kasparov, the leaders of the union of right forces nikita bielych and boris nemtsov, some of their comrades were not only subjected to violence, were detained by the militia, but, for example, garry kasparov was sentenced to 5 days in prison. these events are further proof that in russia, those who believe differently are denied the opportunity to express their views, that they live in constant danger, that opposition members fear for the safety and fate of their families. i am absolutely convinced, mr president, that we in the european parliament cannot remain silent in the face of this. we cannot apply one standard of morality, democracy, human rights to burma or pakistan and another standard, lesser standards, to russia. mr. president, please take action to protect freedom of speech and assembly in russia. after all, in any country where people fight for freedom, they fight for our freedom. and wherever a free man is bound... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, at the end of the text proposed for insertion after paragraph 10, which is in the voting list under amendment 4, the words ‘on russia’s own approach’ are unspecific. is that approach good or bad? i therefore propose that this be defined by inserting the single word ‘deplorable’, which would give ‘russia’s own deplorable approach…’. i would ask members to support that clarification.
mr president, according to the voting list it should come after paragraph 14. it is paragraph 14a, which is amendment 4 by mr gahler and others.
mr president, the enlargement of the schengen area is a magnificent christmas present for 21st-century europeans, yet a new european curtain is being drawn for our neighbours ukraine, russia, moldova and belarus: a financial and bureaucratic one in place of the very old iron one. before, our neighbours could obtain free or reduced-price visas to travel to many new schengen countries. now they must pay between eur 35 and 60. this is a third of a monthly salary in some of these countries. the financial gain from visa taxes is backfiring on the eu itself. for ordinary neighbours the eu is becoming a distant land. after all, the more people who visit the eu, the better they can see how we live, and, at the same time, our tourism industry will profit from it. also, financially, it is better to permit than to restrain. we do not need the fortress of europe. i turn to my colleagues and to the president of this house and ask them to exert pressure on the council to review the visa tax conditions for our eastern neighbours.
on behalf of the pse group i congratulate the rapporteur on her really important work and agree with her that a stronger report would be even more effective. but these rigidities must be postponed until the future, and for the time being, we can rejoice in the compromise reached. for a long time, too little attention has been paid to ocean protection. without the atomic bomb, we're using up the ocean's resources, we're destroying ecosystems, and we're ripping off the branch that we're all sitting on. marine protected areas and reserves are therefore of particular importance if we are to preserve the diversity of the waters for future generations. as we know, the european union has more oceans and seas than land. their health and productivity depend on the well-being of all eu regions and millions of eu people. it is therefore important that the european union continues to regard environmental protection as a whole, which cannot be obscured by individual, small decisions. by reducing pollution, we also clean up the seas and oceans. more money needs to be spent on wastewater treatment plants and efforts should be made to develop them outside the european union. it is a pleasure to see our union once again taking a leading role in the world and committing itself to ensuring the good state of marine ecosystems over a period of 13 years. the baltic sea region has already been mentioned. this sea is particularly sensitive, with sea levels changing only every 25-30 years, and therefore the pollution is higher than average. we are still feeling the effects of the irresponsible use of chemicals that took place decades ago. the baltic sea oil production and pipeline planning should take environmental concerns into account. we must be sure that our children and grandchildren will not be harmed by the decisions we make today.
in welcoming the rapporteur, i would like to stress that good weather is always a pleasure. we can't change the air quality yet, but we can and we should. air pollution in densely populated and industrial areas of the european union is still unacceptably high. let's go to the big cities of europe and feel the underestimated threat of air pollution right there. this is killing tens of thousands of europeans every year. not only is the life span of each person decreasing, but the quality of life is also deteriorating. in recent years, we have been able to reduce harmful emissions in the eu countries significantly. but this is just the beginning. we need to contain these monsters that spew gas into the air, the main air pollutants on our roads. we must make a decisive improvement in public transport and make it possible to move away from the car more often. this is particularly true in the new eu countries, where cars that are 20 or even 30 years old and not properly maintained pollute the environment. the position of the socialist group and, in essence, of the whole parliament is important for the countries acceding to the union in the 21st century. stricter targets for reducing air pollution and their implementation deadlines, flexibility in the fulfilment of the tasks, reconciliation of short-term and long-term objectives. every effort should be made to achieve the lowest possible concentration of particulate matter of all sizes in the air in most parts of europe by 2015. countries that are clearly and vigorously working to reduce their pollution but have not yet achieved the results they want should be given the chance to do so. it is important to reduce the period of suspension from four plus two years to three plus two years.
member of the commission. mr president, population and housing censuses are the central building block for all statistical reporting on the people that live in the european union. in almost every policy area in which the eu is active, be it economic, social or environmental, high-quality population data are required to help formulate operational objectives and to evaluate progress. international, european and national institutions need census data to make valid comparisons between eu member states. accurate data on the population are required to comply with important legislation. examples are the qualified majority voting within the council, or the distribution of structural funds (on the basis of ‘gdp per head’ figures.) the purpose of the present regulation is to provide a clear european framework to achieve comparability of the results of the censuses conducted in the eu member states. it clarifies the responsibilities and roles of the statistical bodies on the national and the european levels and sets common requirements concerning the quality and transparency of results, methods and the technology used. this will be a major step forward to the harmonisation of demographic and social statistics. population censuses have a long tradition in the countries of today’s european union, in some countries reaching back over centuries. for the first time there will be a european legislative framework for the censuses. the word ‘historic’ might well be appropriate to describe this development. the regulation will also be an important milestone for international cooperation in the area of population and housing censuses in which the european commission, via eurostat, has been active over many years. there is a broad agreement across all the institutions involved – the commission, the council and parliament – about the importance of the legislation. it is only natural and appreciated that the legislation about censuses raises debate. after all, you will decide upon the collection of data about all european citizens as well as upon the most cost- and burden-intensive statistical exercise. the issue is politically sensitive and requires a considerable investment of taxpayers’ money and citizens’ goodwill in the member states. however, we should not forget that the absence of subjective and comparable census data would lead to negative consequences. the data are used for policy formulation and evaluation, administrative purposes and social research that increases the welfare of the people living in the european union. the benefits of harmonised census data by far outweigh the efforts to collect it. the member states have been carrying out their national censuses for many decades. what we can achieve with this european legislation is to make their efforts pay off even better by ensuring census data that are of the highest possible quality and comparable between the regions of the european union. this is why the european commission supports the debate that is still ongoing and sincerely hopes that a solution will be found that is acceptable to a broad majority within this house, as well as to the member states represented in the council. we appeal to all to support the rapporteur, ms juknevičienė, in her quest to find such a compromise.
the rapporteur. the commissioner has just said that this regulation is a historic event. i would like to start by saying that this is a historic event, but also one of the most scandalous in europe. could we today confirm to ourselves, and it seems that we have not had reliable statistics, that we have not known how many people live in our community and in what housing they live. and so i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee of the regions, for their close cooperation in the preparation of this document. i would also like to thank the commission and council staff who have been active in the discussions and have sought a compromise with us to include only data that is necessary to be collected in this regulation and to refrain from collecting information that is unnecessary or even potentially infringes the right to privacy. community statistics, and therefore this regulation has the legal basis provided for in article 285 of the treaty. so there is no doubt that we have the basis for this document. the community treaty requires the respect of very important criteria: the principles of impartiality, reliability, objectivity, scientific independence, economy and confidentiality of data. the main objective of this regulation is to provide a detailed picture of the structure and characteristics of the population in order to allow for a thorough analysis both in planning and in formulating strategy in many community policies. as the commissioner has already said, the annual population census determines important criteria such as voting and the determination of the majority of voters in the council. high-quality data at regional level must be established in order to decide which regions are actually eligible for community support and also to assess the progress of regional cohesion. so, what could be more important than this document, that we can compare the data and trust it? this regulation also provides the basis for the collection of high-quality and comparable data on housing of the population. they are needed to identify consumers of energy, water and other services, to assess supply and demand of apartments, and to assess financial and construction needs. the last census in 2001 was based on a gentleman's agreement and did not produce any positive results. the data are incomplete, unreliable, difficult to compare, and for different periods. therefore, there are doubts as to whether community funds have been allocated and used unjustifiably. of course, it is also difficult to plan for the future. the proposed regulation would guarantee reliable, transparent and sufficiently comparable results. it will also require only the necessary data on agreed topics. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept my amendments, which will help to avoid burdening the community member with unnecessary information and its collection. the vote on this regulation is postponed to the next plenary session. it's very important that we find a compromise. such agreement is necessary to achieve the objective. we also need to get the consent of the citizens of the community to understand and agree to the collection of data. people need to be confident that the common statistical system is reliable and necessary for their well-being. it is important and crucial that the data collected are strictly protected and used only for the purpose for which they are collected.
i am pleased that the baltic sea, europe's most polluted sea, has been chosen as a pilot area for the implementation of the marine strategy. the directive of the european parliament and of the council provides that the marine strategy framework directive will be implemented by the member states having drawn up a common programme of measures for the baltic sea region. nine baltic states are members of the eu and only one is a third country russia. there are doubts about whether the ecological situation in the baltic region will improve by 2010. the basis for the doubts is the german-russian gas pipeline, which runs the entire length of the baltic sea. everyone will be affected by the construction and operation of the pipeline. the pressure tests in the gas pipelines will be carried out using seawater that will be pumped back into the sea. also at risk are the chemical weapons from world war ii that lie at the bottom of the sea. i supported the document under discussion, but i find it difficult to imagine a joint eu programme for the improvement of the ecology of the baltic sea. i also believe that russia should be involved in the design and implementation of the programme.
acting president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be here today to discuss the 9th annual report of the european union on human rights, covering the period 1 july 2006 to 30 june 2007, after it was formally presented to the european parliament on 26 november in brussels. the 9th annual report of the european union on human rights 2007 was, as in previous years, a real joint effort by the presidency, the european commission and the general secretariat of the council. the aim of this report is to give an overall overview of the union's work on human rights during the finnish and german presidencies. the report seeks to illustrate how the common values on which the union is founded are translated into concrete activities linked to human rights, both in its bilateral relations with third countries and in the multilateral sphere, as well as in relation to various thematic issues. a second purpose of this report is to ensure transparency in the union's human rights activities and also to ensure some visibility to these numerous and very important activities. i should now like to highlight the most striking general aspects of the european union's human rights policy during the period under review. they were: the implementation of the union's human rights guidelines - and as you know we have guidelines on torture, the death penalty, human rights defenders and children in armed conflict - the development of new, more comprehensive union guidelines on children's rights - and in a first phase, focused on the issue of violence against children - the first year of operation of the human rights council, the completion of the institution building process of this new body and finally the integration of human rights into all aspects of union policies, including crisis management in european security and defence policy operations and missions. the report is broadly identical in structure to last year's report, but with an additional focus on analysis to provide a broad overview of the impact and effectiveness of union action in the field of human rights and democratisation. this approach to analysis follows the suggestions made by the european parliament in the coveney report in april. this report thus presents the union's human rights activities, both from a thematic perspective and from the point of view of the specific situation of certain countries. this year two new chapters have been added: one on neighbourhood policy and one on freedom of religion and belief. we want to emphasize the importance we attach to the fight against intolerance based on belief or religion. the annual report includes comments on the resolution that the european union presented on this subject at the 2006 session of the united nations general assembly. i am pleased to inform you that this year we again tabled a resolution on intolerance on the grounds of religion or belief, which was adopted by consensus in the third committee. the european union will also be presenting a resolution on religious intolerance at the human rights council meeting in geneva, which opened yesterday, 10 december. we hope that this resolution will also be adopted by consensus. the report also includes a larger chapter on the european parliament's activities in promoting and protecting human rights and democracy, notably through resolutions but also through hearings and debates organised in the subcommittee on human rights, as well as in the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on development and with representatives of third countries. the european parliament's important contribution to our joint efforts to promote and protect human rights is undeniable. the report also mentions the mechanisms established within the union to ensure respect for and protection of human rights. in this context, the creation of the fundamental rights agency on 1 march this year, replacing the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, is worth mentioning. this report highlights, among other activities, the actions taken to implement the union's human rights guidelines. i would like to start by mentioning the action taken this year in implementing the guidelines on the death penalty. in cooperating with countries in all regions, the union has given a major impetus to its action on the death penalty. during the period covered by the report, the union has carried out numerous actions on the death penalty, trying to convince countries to change their positions on this issue and also trying to save human lives. it was also within these guidelines that we prepared the declaration on the death penalty in 2006 at the un general assembly, which led to the adoption of the resolution against the death penalty on 15 november this year. we also strengthened action against torture under the guidelines and continued to improve the implementation of the guidelines on children in armed conflict as well as on human rights defenders. this year the union has taken a further initiative and has developed a set of guidelines on the rights of the child, which will most likely be adopted by the council later this year. the report continues to focus on the union's action in the framework of the common foreign and security policy, human rights dialogues with various countries and troika consultations. information on the development of policies and actions is available on 20 different thematic topics, including not only the areas where the union has adopted human rights guidelines, but also other thematic topics such as women's rights, children's rights, the fight against racism and trafficking in human beings. the report includes an analysis of the union's action in neighbouring countries and provides an overview of the union's action in international organisations. i would remind you that the period covered in this report coincides with the first year of the human rights council's activities, and the european union has actively contributed to its work. another priority of the union in the field of human rights has been, as in previous years, the integration of human rights into all aspects of union policies. i am thinking of planning and executing european security and defence policy missions and crisis management operations or sending advisers on missions with a focus on human rights and gender issues. the mandates of the eusrs will also now have specific instructions in this area.
member of the commission. mr president, i also welcome this eu report, which is a joint report by the council and the european commission. those of you who were present the first time i spoke here as a commissioner will know that it has always been my wish for us to address this issue together. i would also like to thank those in parliament who have contributed to our report. at the end of the day, this is a very good document which expresses what we have to say, and shows what we have been doing, in the field of human rights. yesterday the world celebrated international human rights day, which is particularly significant this year as it marks the start of the celebrations to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights. that was the first step in establishing a comprehensive international framework for the protection of human rights, which has now been followed by an impressive codification of international human rights law over the past decades. today, the challenge is to turn implementation into reality, worldwide. for instance, the deplorable human rights situations in burma/myanmar, in sudan/darfur, iran and zimbabwe are a stark reminder of the challenge we face, and one brought home to us today by the winner of the sakharov prize, mr osman. he has clearly shown us the way. i would like to draw your attention to four key developments which have particularly marked the european union’s activities over the past year. first, we have seen important changes within the united nations human rights system. the institution-building phase of the human rights council has been more or less successfully completed, and there is ground for cautious optimism, provided the council addresses human rights violations in a timely manner whenever and wherever they occur. in that light, we were pleased to see that, further to the eu’s initiative, the human rights council has taken steps to address the grave violation of human rights in burma/myanmar, and also in sudan/darfur. moreover, we also welcome the creation of the system of the universal periodic review which, as of next year, will also allow for a regular thorough examination of the human rights records of every un member state. despite the creation of the human rights council, the third committee of the un general assembly remains, of course, an equally important forum for human rights issues. the european union will continue to make full use of that committee to propose both thematic and country resolutions. at this year’s session there was a particular success – namely the adoption for the first time of a resolution calling for a moratorium on the use of the death penalty. thanks to the eu’s initiative and the building of a cross-regional coalition, the historic condemnation of the death penalty marks a crucial step in building an international consensus towards its eventual eradication. secondly, one of the most important tools at our disposal for raising human rights issues with third countries is the human rights dialogues. they also enable us to raise particular human rights concerns with a partner country, make recommendations for improvement and also discuss possible ways to promote reform through training projects or cooperation. the last year has seen a considerable increase in the number of human rights dialogues. we now conduct dialogues with around 25 partner countries. for example, we have established human rights dialogues with most of the european neighbourhood countries, and initial meetings have generally been quite – and sometimes highly – constructive. the first round of the human rights experts’ dialogues, including with the african union, has opened up new possibilities for engaging with the african continent on human rights. in may 2007, the european union held the first human rights dialogue with uzbekistan, and the eu strategy for central asia foresees the establishment of such dialogues with all central asian countries. however, as the number of dialogues increases, we must be vigilant to ensure consistency and effectiveness – a point that the european parliament rightly underlined in its resolution of 6 september 2007. thirdly, let me turn to the eu human rights guidelines. i am pleased – and the council presidency has already noted this – that 2007 has seen the adoption of the new guidelines on the promotion and protection of the rights of the child, jointly with an implementation strategy. as a first priority, we shall address under those guidelines the crucial issue of violence against children. as in the case of all eu guidelines it is, of course, implementation that counts. the european union has, in particular, been active under the guidelines on the death penalty, torture and ill-treatment, with numerous general démarches, but also with many specific representations on individual death-penalty or torture cases in a range of third countries. we will consistently raise these matters in political dialogue meetings with third countries. finally, i must mention the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), which has been in place since january 2007. the eidhr enables us to provide funding directly to civil society organisations worldwide, without the intervention of governments. this has become a vital instrument for strengthening grass-roots organisations throughout the world, without which human rights and democracy could not flourish. the eidhr puts a new emphasis on the promotion of democracy and also allows us to provide support for actions in support of the eu human rights guidelines. a further innovation is that funds can now be mobilised to assist human rights defenders who are in danger as a result of their activities. in total, some eur 140 million will be available each year under this instrument, and the first calls for project proposals are now open. time allows me only to touch on those few points today. however, i think any reader of this good and interesting annual report cannot fail to be struck both by the sheer geographic scope of our activities on human rights and by the range of thematic issues covered. in addition to the topics i have already mentioned, i would like to say that the european union has been active on issues as diverse as promoting membership of the international criminal court (icc), women’s rights and the rights of persons with disabilities. the year 2007 has been a year of achievements. nevertheless, we are also aware that human rights violations remain, unfortunately, endemic throughout the globe. in this 60th anniversary year of the universal declaration of human rights, we will, of course, continue our efforts to ensure that the rights contained in that declaration eventually become a tangible reality for all of us.
for the ppe-de group first of all, i would like to thank the authors of the annual report. this document was awaited not only by the european parliament but also by institutions such as the united nations human rights council, the council of europe and non-governmental organisations active in the field of human rights, with whom dialogue is difficult to overestimate. i am referring to the dialogue between the european parliament and its subcommittee on human rights and the un human rights council with civil society and its groups. i fully agree with the presidency and the commissioner, but i would like to make a few further points. this annual report provides a sufficiently detailed overview of the eu's human rights activities around the world. it covers the activities of the eu member states, the commission and the european parliament. this report may also contain an overview of the situation in specific regions of the world, but i am missing a few things that would make the report even more valuable. first, i missed the evaluation of eu human rights policy. at the end of the year, it would be very useful to know how the eu council, together with the commission, evaluates the results of its actions, their impact. such a report would be of far greater value than a list of actions, however long that list might be. a result-oriented approach would make all eu action in the field of human rights more visible and worthy of recognition. this is also true of the individual cases mentioned in the report: what has the european union achieved in a year? or did our tactics and actions have no effect, or were they the opposite of what we expected? on the other hand, the report also contains recommendations for resolutions adopted by the european parliament in relation to its work. the european parliament would be well advised to know which recommendations of the ep have been taken into account by the commission and the council, what of our proposals have been implemented and what the results have been.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam president, as the honourable member will note, within the framework of the world trade organisation, the provisions of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) for trade in energy products and the rules of the agreement on trade in services (gats) for trade in energy services, including direct investment in such services, apply. there is as yet no wto agreement covering direct investment in energy-related activities for own account in the secondary sector, such as mining, refining, energy generation and distribution. the european community has explicit exclusive competence under the common commercial policy article 133 of the ec treaty to legislate and negotiate agreements in the field of trade in energy products and to negotiate agreements in the field of trade in energy services. the commission is also empowered to negotiate, on behalf of both the community and its member states, the liberalisation of direct investment outside the services sector in the context of the negotiations on free trade agreements with third countries. the commission can therefore already now address key issues relating to trade and investment in the energy sector and represent european interests on these issues in bilateral and multilateral wto negotiations, and the commission is doing so! the energy policy which will be designed under the new treaty, and which will also focus on the security of energy supply in the union and the promotion of the interconnection of energy networks, is in this respect complementary to, but not a substitute for, the common commercial policy in the energy sector.
vice-president of the commission. i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer. so, on the first question: i share mr van nistelrooij's view that it is not in our interest to sell technologies which are substandard in terms of energy efficiency and co2 emissions. mr dimas and i are currently working in the commission on proposals for how to achieve a low-carbon economy in europe, both in terms of industrial policy and in terms of production and consumption. i hope that this will lead to standards which can then be used in international negotiations. at the moment, you know the situation. we do not have the means at the moment to negotiate and enforce such additional standards within the wto, but it is - as you know - our medium and long-term objective to make high environmental and social standards binding within the framework of multilateral agreements, in order to avoid the competitive disadvantage that our companies would otherwise suffer. i would also like to point out that we have a very strong interest in pursuing such a multilateral policy because we believe that the great future opportunity for european companies lies in our becoming the world leader in environmentally friendly, energy-efficient and energy-saving products. as regards the question of mr rübig, i must confess that i do not know. as you know, i am not responsible for the dossier, i will ask mr mandelson to inform you immediately in writing. i really don't want to say anything wrong right now. i know that in the context of some of the free trade agreements we are currently negotiating with south africa, for example, this question is relevant. but i am not aware of the specific sector in which this is being negotiated. you'll have all the information by tomorrow. as far as nuclear power stations are concerned, there is a perfectly clear policy of the european commission and this is also the policy of the european union as a whole. each member state is fully independent and free to choose its energy mix. no member state can be recommended or required to use or not to use nuclear energy. and neither does the commission. we are and will remain completely neutral on this issue. there will be no recommendations in the direction you feared. however, as you know, the euratom treaty has been incorporated into the ec treaty, which means that the promotion of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy is clearly a task for the european union. this is done both through research funding - which has been financing nuclear energy projects for many decades, and this is nothing new - and through the european investment bank, which has in some cases already been involved in the financing of nuclear power stations. in other words, there is no policy at european level to promote nuclear energy everywhere, and there is no policy at european level to abolish nuclear energy everywhere.
vice-president of the commission. the commission strongly supports the promotion of sustainable urban development which fully respects the environment. the commission adopted its thematic strategy on the urban environment in 2006. the strategy recognises the whole of sustainable urban development in relation to the quality of life, but the strategy also recognises the diversity that exists between citizens in the european union. for this reason, and following extensive consultations with local authorities and the member states, the strategy, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, assumed that local and national authorities are best placed to find and implement solutions most appropriate to the local circumstances. against the background of the diversity of urban situations, the commission does not recommend a specific model of development valid for each city in europe. the commission considers it essential to put in place the appropriate governance and planning tools, but is of the opinion that there is no real added value in imposing an obligation to establish specific plans, such as environmental management plans and sustainable urban transport plans. the commission has, however, published guidance on sustainable urban transport plans and on integrated environment management plans, with the aim of assisting local authorities to implement the strategy’s objectives. guidance should be seen as a description of the process, and a reminder of the key elements that could be considered when developing integrated environmental management programmes and sustainable urban transport plans at local level. both documents are based upon comprehensive consultations and examples of best practice developed by cities themselves. legislation affecting urban areas exists already, for example in the field of air quality, water management, noise and waste. that legislation needs to be implemented better. a noticeable and significant improvement in the living conditions in urban areas will be seen through the full implementation of existing legislative instruments. the commission recalls the wealth of ideas on urban development which has allowed the ministers responsible for urban affairs to reach a consensus based on the lille action programme, the rotterdam urban acquis, the bristol accord and, more recently, the leipzig charter on sustainable european cities adopted at an informal council meeting on 25 may 2007. in september 2007 it approved a green paper on urban mobility, which has now been submitted for public consultation. those documents constitute a shared background, outlining the main conditions necessary to achieve urban sustainable development. furthermore, the commission actively encourages dialogue and the dissemination of best practices between cities within the framework of programmes financed by the european regional development fund. concerning the data available on the situation of european cities, which can provide the basis for policy decisions, the commission has put in place the urban audit, which contains data on the situation of european cities, and is now being updated. the commission has recently published a study on the state of european cities, which further analyses the results of the urban audit.
thank you very much to the commissioner for a full and convincing reply. the commission is indeed doing a lot to encourage cities to find and share good initiatives. i would like to ask you, however, which regions of the european union are, in your opinion, the closest to achieving this ideal, which is clearly out of reach? which eu member states have, however, been the most successful in implementing the ideas recommended by the european commission?
member of the commission. firstly i would like to thank the honourable member for helping me move ahead in this policy. it is a policy based on an open network and an open internet, which has always been, and will continue to be, the mindset, approach and target value of europe. we should not be too worried for the time being, because our regulatory framework fortunately means that we are not in the same difficult conditions as other parts of the world. that does not mean we should sit back and do nothing, which is why i said we are going to monitor this matter very closely. i will report back to parliament, and i am sure that in the course of our discussions on the reform package on the telecom regulatory rules we will return to these issues. i also foresee technological advances making things change very rapidly, perhaps meaning that i will not need to come back in the coming months. concerning open access to new technology and new investments in broadband, the honourable member knows perfectly well that the commission has vetoed the proposal by the german government to establish a new monopoly on fibre. we do not think that monopolies are the answer to open internet access and everything we believe in. that is also the reason we are going for competition, which we see as a means of opening up possibilities for investment. those member states with most competition in terms of open markets are also those member states which have most competition in terms of infrastructure. competition in infrastructure means the availability of service content for the consumer, and consumer choice. that is exactly what we want to achieve. herrn rübig möchte ich sagen: es ist bekannt, dass ich mich sehr stark für einen europäischen standard eingesetzt habe, damit wir so schnell wie möglich mit diesem neuen standard für das mobile fernsehen europaweit eine erfolgsgeschichte schreiben können, so wie wir das mit unserem gsm-standard gemacht haben. hier denke ich hauptsächlich auch an inhalte, denn diese kleineren formate werden spezifische inhalte brauchen, und unserer kreativen industrie wird sich hier sicher eine sehr große möglichkeit bieten, wenn wir es denn fertigbringen, so schnell wie möglich, und zwar noch vor dem fußballereignis nächstes jahr und vor den olympischen spielen, mit dem mobilen fernsehen auf dem markt zu sein. hier ist eine chance, die wir als europäer nicht verpassen sollten!
vice-president of the commission. during its seven years of existence, the european charter for small enterprises has become a core document for small and medium-sized enterprise (sme) policy in europe. starting with the 15 member states in 2000, 44 countries have now adopted it as a reference frame and it is also used today at regional level. since 2005, sme policy has become a key element within the renewed lisbon partnership for growth and jobs, and the charter was integrated within the lisbon reporting process. this ensures the necessary priority attention at political level. this is complemented by the yearly good practice exercise and the charter conferences, which provide the necessary focus on implementation. both the good practice exercise and the yearly charter conference continue to be very successful. the good practice exercise has, up to now, provided more than 250 examples of proven and successful sme policy measures. in around 80 of these cases, member states indicated that they have been inspired by measures from other member states in the development of their own policies. i shall give you a few examples, although i could give you a long list. the greek system of one-stop-shop services was inspired by ireland and its presentation at the dublin charter conference in 2004. the austrian tax exemption for invested profits was developed on the basis of a similar measure in italy. denmark provides support for smes in the use of e-business on the basis of similar initiatives in ireland, the netherlands, finland, sweden and norway. in all these cases, member states have confirmed that the charter triggered the inspiration. the high interest in the charter is also demonstrated by the constantly increasing number of participants at the annual charter conferences. this year’s charter conference in berlin attracted 350 participants, the highest number of participants ever, and i was very happy that i was able to be there and to address those people from more than 40 countries. the next charter conference will take place from 3 to 4 june 2008 in bled, slovenia. it will be co-organised by the slovenian presidency, and i expect an even higher number of participants. the commission sees that the charter is highly useful in encouraging the member states to improve the business environment for small enterprises all over europe. in its seventh year it continues to be a crucial policy instrument. so the natural answer to your question is ‘yes’.
vice-president of the commission. on the first question, i would like to confirm that all the sme organisations are indeed fully involved, and that we have finalised a project that will create a network for small business support everywhere in the european union. one of the most important elements of that network will be precisely the ict uptake in a broader sense. we have clearly identified one of the reasons for european smes being less dynamic, for instance, than american smes, which is that american smes grow faster, are more profitable, are more innovative and on average employ more people. one of the causes of this – and we have analysed this clearly – is that ict uptake is much much better in the united states. in particular, they use the most modern technology available. in europe we are happy if the owner of a small family business is on-line at all! that is a matter of fact. the reality of the european enterprise is that it is a very small micro-business with less than 10 people. it is not normally growth-oriented, but is a business that exists to guarantee the income of a family. that is why it is there. it is therefore difficult to convince such enterprises that they have to modernise, that they have to be market players and that they have to grow. i fully share your views and can only say that we have many, many initiatives already in place to support these enterprises – some of them, by the way, together with the relevant industries, which of course have an interest in selling their products. we therefore combine the two, and the initiatives are not aimed solely at smes. the problem of ict uptake for smes has to be seen in combination with the problem in rural areas of the network and the infrastructure not existing. the commission is working on this important area too. this is certainly also part of the charter process, and will be part of the reporting system. on the second question, from mr harbour, he knows that i am always pleased to answer his questions but, as far as the small business act is concerned, this one comes a little bit early. the charter is a process, as you know, and it would be wise to concentrate on what it is now – a network of cooperation in the area of new ideas and best practices. i am hesitant to create too many instruments, but it is obvious that in the process of preparing the small business act we have to examine all the existing ones, whether they are appropriate or not, and decide whether we can improve them or not in the context. in principle, i must say that i am very happy that everywhere in europe it is now accepted that smes really have the strongest potential for innovation, growth and job creation. all the initiatives which we are preparing will help smes to fully use that potential and to unlock it. we have known what the basic problems are for a couple of years, and you will be well aware of what these are: the problem of insufficiently strong innovative capacity; the problem of not having access to financial instruments, especially venture capital; the problem of the transfer of the business – a very important aspect which is highly underestimated in some member states. we are losing hundreds of thousands of enterprises every year in europe which could easily continue to exist if the transfer from one generation to the next could be organised in a better way. that is a highly important question. the whole tax environment for smes is an important one, and my favourite issue of course – over-regulation – is much more important for smes than for big companies. big companies can live with very heavy and difficult regulation. they have legal departments and they do it. by the way, i am also convinced that big companies do not need the internal market as much as smaller companies do. bigger companies would use the right of establishment and would be everywhere. the whole internal market philosophy, in my view, must be focused on the smes, and unfortunately i have to tell you that only 8% of european enterprises do cross-border business. if you analyse that, you find that the potential of the european internal market is greatly under-exploited, if only 8% of our enterprises – normally the bigger enterprises – participate. so we have a lot of work still to do.
vice-president of the commission. the issue of noise emissions of four-wheeled motor vehicles – cars, vans, trucks and buses – is addressed by unece regulation no 51 and equivalent directive 70/157/eec introducing noise tests and limit values. the limit values have been reduced several times in the past, most recently in 1995. the maximum allowed sound level lies today between 74 dba for passenger cars and 80 dba for heavy trucks. a further allowance is given to direct-injection diesel engines, off-road vehicles and sports cars. this latest reduction did not have the expected effect and subsequent studies showed that the measurement method does not reflect real-world driving behaviour any more. it was therefore decided that, before reducing the limits once again, it was first of all necessary to develop a new test cycle and bring the driving conditions for the noise test closer in line with real-life driving operations. the work on a new test cycle is now finalised. it will replace the existing test protocol with a better measurement method reproducing the sound levels generated by heavy vehicles during normal driving in urban traffic. with the new test procedure, it is foreseen that the existing additional allowances for certain vehicles or technologies will be abolished. before this method can be used for type-approval purposes, new limit values for this method need to be established on the basis of an impact assessment. in order to obtain representative data to determine those values and establish a solid impact assessment, vehicle manufacturers are obliged to carry out the old and the new measurement methods in parallel during a period of two years. the old method will continue to be required, in order to receive type approval, and the new method will be used for monitoring purposes until 2009. as soon as the collection of data is finished, the commission will propose new legislation setting revised limit values. a new test method for motorbikes is also close to being finalised. the discussions in the unece are now focusing on additional roadside tests that would be carried out during type approval in order to provide noise values that would allow comparison with those measured at roadside checks in order to detect motorbikes that have been tampered with or that are insufficiently maintained. it is expected that the work can be finalised in 2008. the commission will then propose to adhere to the relevant unece regulation with revised limit values. in addition, the commission has recently carried out a consultation exercise on a package of measures on tyres, including the reduction of the existing noise limit for tyres. the consultation proposes reduction of around 4 dba for passenger car tyres and 6 dba for commercial vehicle tyres: it is quite considerable. the new limits would be expected to come into force for new tyre types around 2012.
i would like to point out that we talk a lot about specific requirements, but little about the implementation of those requirements. in the field of pollution, i would like to draw the attention of the honourable vice-president of the commission to the fact that it is a very fragmented monitoring mechanism for all the requirements we have just discussed, and perhaps some proposal should be prepared, or perhaps the commission is preparing some proposal to harmonise the administrative procedure for those pollution criteria and the assessment of pollution, because this is a very pressing problem for small countries like lithuania, whose supervisory authorities are weak and do not have the capacity to meet all the requirements.
in germany, electricity has recently risen in price by as much as 10 percent, and it has been argued that electricity provides a level of comfort that requires high prices. will the third energy package and the price regulators be involved in this? will price increases that are not realistically justified be influenced? and should we not, as in the case of roaming, apply certain limits to the increase in electricity prices if we see that there is no reason to make a profit?
a couple of weeks ago, news broke that italy and russia had agreed to build a new gas pipeline in the southern region. the south stream, which is effectively a duplicate of the nabucco project. in his comments, mr putin expressed his gratitude to the commission for supporting the project. i would like to hear your response to such statements.
for the alde group i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and the council. i found this subject and the work involved not only interesting but also beneficial. however, despite the fact that after lengthy negotiations, acceptable compromises have been found on many, i.e. almost all, of the issues, i am concerned about the commission's position on the classification of aircraft up to 7500 kg in terms of their complexity. the commissioner made a brief reference to this. the apparently highly technical issue is of great importance to the aviation industry and is highly complex and will therefore have a variety of implications both for the emergence of new technologies and their further use in aviation. the consideration of a directive, which is regrettable but in my view welcome, has been used, as i understand it, and it does not seem to be the first time, in an internal competition battle without assessing the damage to the european union as a whole by competing with the outside world. i mean the united states, brazil, and maybe soon china. personally, i am disappointed with the commission's position on this issue. i understand in part the protection of individual member states' positions in the european council, but the european commission should have looked at this matter not from the narrow corporate interests of an individual country, but from the perspective of the community as a whole, considering the benefits or possible harm of such decisions. in the future, the result will be unambiguous. to avoid red tape, small companies and individual aircraft owners will be forced to use single-engine, outdated technology aircraft instead of modern twin-engine, jet-based technology. and the worst part is that it was done under the guise of air safety. in practice, we will get the exact opposite result. who said a single-engine plane is safer than a twin? that is unfortunately the council's and unfortunately the commission's factual understanding of aviation safety today. i am not afraid to be categorical in this case because, being a pilot myself, i am speaking from the ceiling and i am more concerned with the practical side of the matter than the declarative or the meritorious side. i am sure that we will soon feel the results of this, i am convinced, flawed position and we will inevitably have to name the author to the aviation community. i trust the effectiveness of the faa and its willingness to conduct a follow-up study to assess and possibly refute these claims.
the commission's proposal for amendments to the council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine is discriminatory towards certain member states, in particular the new member states. the community support for wine in third countries is intended to promote trade, but it is somehow linked to the expected vineyard area and the average wine production over 3 years. the commission intends to support wine exports and individual brands. the competitive advantage will be given to producers and exporters in the assisted countries. it is unacceptable that wine producers in lithuania and other countries who do not have vineyards will not receive support for wine exports. i voted against the report.
there is no denying that since the start of the china-europe summits in 1998, eu-china relations - political, economic, trade, scientific - have developed rapidly and have grown into a strategic partnership. but a strategic partnership, as we understand it, is based on shared values, respect for democracy, respect for human rights. respect for human rights and freedoms was, is and will be the foundation of eu unity, and this is not a one-day declaration, the eu has proved this throughout its history of more than half a century. it is time for the countries, the eu's partners, to understand that there are things the eu will not give up or trade for nothing. i would like to emphasise this in particular today, when the historic document - the eu charter of fundamental rights - was signed in this very room a few hours ago. i should also point out that there are things that are holding back the development of eu-china relations, and the key to finding solutions is in most cases in the hands of the chinese authorities. in our talks with chinese representatives, even in the negotiations on trade or economic cooperation agreements, we always remember and will remember that chinese citizens suffer in prisons for their political beliefs, their religious beliefs, their ethnic minority, and even for economic crimes such as tax evasion, they are punished by the death penalty. recently, in the run-up to the beijing olympics, we have learned about new "inventions", namely that the construction of olympic facilities destroys people's homes without even paying compensation, that a list of 42 categories of persons who will not be allowed to enter the olympics has been approved, including the dalai lama and like-minded people, journalists, human rights defenders. i can say one thing: this is completely incompatible with the traditions of the olympic games and the spirit of the olympic games in general. i therefore propose that the lists of offenders against china be immediately removed and that all political prisoners of conscience be released on the occasion of the olympic games and that a moratorium on the death penalty be imposed. i regret that the eu-china summit in beijing did not become a historic event and that its participants did not become politicians who would have given a new quality to eu-china relations. what was lacking was not so much attention as more respect for the individual and his rights.
i thank the rapporteur for his work, who had the honour of presenting in this resolution a new and at the same time an old european state. after a bitter divorce with serbia, montenegro has a chance to show the unbridled potential of a small, proud country. on the other hand, montenegro should take the lead in strengthening regional cooperation, further affirming the rights of minorities and thus contributing to the transformation of the balkans into an orangery of peoples, rather than a barracks. like other recent countries on the map, montenegro faces many dangerous challenges: rampant corruption, illegal businesses, the shadow economy, and so on. it is regrettable that some foreign investors, especially from russia, are lured by the ease with which the new country implements financial machinations. the commitment not to extradite us personnel to the icc in exchange for military assistance undermines confidence in montenegro's willingness to cooperate peacefully with its neighbours and even in the country's european aspirations. today, montenegro, like its neighbour, is being drawn by the european union like a magnet from the shadows of the past. the very prospect of eu membership strengthens democracy, human rights and improves the lives of citizens. the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement should help montenegro's reform sails to catch the european wind. the country can draw on the experience gained by neighbouring slovenia and other 21st century members of our union in their approach to the eu. the desire of montenegro to declare itself an ecological republic is welcome, but it still has a long way to go before this ambition is more convincingly realised. it is very gratifying to see the visa isolation of montenegro and the other balkan countries broken. the european commission and the council should not stand by and tear down that screen, removing financial and bureaucratic barriers, while at the same time strengthening the deterrent for criminals and lawbreakers.
for the alde group i would like to emphasise that this report, while well balanced and certainly appropriate, unfortunately does not reflect reality. the problem is that most financial institutions, as it seems from the data we're presenting now, are not very receptive to the regulations and rules we're proposing. and the main problems are when you take advantage of the discrepancies that arise between those regulations. we should therefore first of all look at this report together with other reports and other documents such as the 'mifid' to achieve some consistency. another aspect i would like to stress is that i also share the view of ms luling that 'ucits' is a great name and that we therefore need to be very cautious about including new products in the investment portfolio. why would you do that? because we don't know what these new products are. i am very sorry that this document and the commission's proposal have somewhat 'undermined' the portfolios and interests of the retail investor and the institutional, professional, investor. for the retail investor, we have to regulate everything clearly, and whereas in one document we have both ucits and alternative investment funds, in reality, in life, in my country, it turns out that these two products are mixed, combined and presented to the retail investor, who doesn't even understand what he is investing in. this requires a more rigorous separation, a clearer structuring of the document and i hope that the commission will present a document next year which will be more clearly structured. we really have to protect the small investor. of course, we have to give more rights to the private investor, but this has to be deducted. we can't offer to invest in alternative funds that don't even have a definition. in my country, any fund is now called an alternative.
mr president, i would like to clarify our amendment and insert the words: ‘indirectly, for example’, so the text now reads: ‘...the product to retail investors directly or indirectly, for example by bundling it with other retail products’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, there are pages in the world’s history we would wish not to be repeated anywhere, ever. one of these pages is the story of ‘comfort women’. i refer to the officially commissioned acquisition of young women by the government of japan, from the 1930s and during the second world war, for the sole purpose of sexual servitude to the japanese imperial armed forces. we do not know exactly the numbers of women who were enslaved but we know that the ‘comfort women system’ included gang rape, forced abortions, humiliation and sexual violence, resulting in mutilation, death or eventual suicide, and that it was one of the largest cases of human trafficking in the 20th century, involving not hundreds but thousands of women. today, the remaining survivors are 80 and more years of age and one could argue that the problem is no longer an important issue. but i fully understand the wish of these women and their families to clear their names. today we express our solidarity with the women who were victims of this system. we call on the japanese government to formally acknowledge and accept historical and legal responsibility and to implement effective administrative mechanisms to provide reparations to all surviving victims of the ‘comfort women system’ and to the families of deceased victims. taking into account the excellent relationship between the european union and japan, based on the mutually shared values of the rule of law and respect for human rights, i hope that the government and the parliament of japan will take all necessary measures to recognise the sufferings of sex slaves and to remove existing obstacles to obtaining reparations before japanese courts and that current and future generations will be educated about these events. i am sure that official recognition of the existence of the ‘comfort women system’ and an apology on behalf of the japanese government also would do much to help heal the wounds of our painful common history.
madam president, i should like to move an oral amendment so that the title of the motion for resolution would read as follows: ‘justice for “comfort women” (sex slaves in asia before and during world war ii)’.
