mr president, madam president of the council! the successful enlargement must now be followed by institutional consolidation, otherwise the union will be reduced to a free trade area. some states want this. germany has the power to turn the tide. it's not the naysayers who have to set the course. we must speak clearly in june. a renewed treaty must restore the union's ability to act, otherwise a two-speed europe will inevitably emerge. the free movement of citizens, the schengen treaty, was the work of five countries. the euro area is core europe, with less inflation than in the us or the uk. the prüm treaty sets new standards in the fight against crime. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. this is also true for energy and climate protection. of 180 un member states, only 30 have committed themselves to the kyoto commitments. the eu was responsible for 14% of global co2 emissions last year - not because we've gotten so much better, but because others are emitting extra co2. the commission has therefore decided to make a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but the market cannot do everything. as one wise woman said in those days, in the commission's eyes, politics is a distortion of competition. the commission and its officials must once again respect the primacy of politics. europe is not just a market, but primarily a service to the social needs of its citizens.
mr president, i would like to congratulate you very warmly. you've had a very good run. 11 october 2006 was a dark day for the french and luxembourg railways. on a section of the double track railway, which was temporarily operated on a single track for work, a collision between two trains killed six people and seriously injured two others. a passenger train from luxembourg collided with a freight train in france. the accident, which was caused, according to the investigation, by a human error in switching on the luxembourg side, has a tragic side, because the station master, having become aware of the error, triggered the ground-train radio, a first loud sound alarm, which was not received by the driver of the passenger train. he then wanted to cut the power on the line, but it was not possible because of the difference in electricity supply between the two countries. moreover, the luxembourg convoy had already passed through the french network and was therefore out of its range. the commissioner, this example illustrates the danger of a lack of coordination between railway networks, whether they are privatised or public service. the responsibility lies with the switchboard operator, but also with the two companies and the authorities of the two member states, and even with the lack of a sustained commitment to achieve interoperability of the railway networks. citizens will not understand that by crossing the border by train, they are risking their lives because of the inadequacy of the systems. for luxembourg, international traffic represents 70% of turnover. our situation is therefore specific, which requires all the more effort for the interoperability of networks, and this as a first priority. if the approach of the transport committee of this parliament succeeds in mobilizing investment in the railway, this is the way to go.
in writing. the treaty provisions on transport concern international transport, the conditions for admitting non-resident transport, and thus ultimately transport activities within the internal market. why should the european union be concerned with local, regional or even national transport within a country if this organization does not affect trade within the internal market? the jarzembowski report goes too far in its attempt to liberalize everything.
in writing. i voted against this report and against many amendments because the european parliament is going against the principle of subsidiarity by wanting to impose the same police rules throughout europe, the effectiveness of which is far from proven.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have taken the floor once again to respond clearly to an attack by mrs harms on the german presidency of the council. the question was: what is the german presidency's position on the debate on the involvement of the automobile industry in climate change? firstly, mrs harms, the presidency of the council cannot have any opinion on this question because there is no proposal from the commission and there has been no discussion in the council. if you mean the position of the german government, mrs harms, please note the following: firstly, your statement that the federal government is against a legislative proposal and against a pan-european legislation with 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre is definitely wrong. the german government agrees that if the european automobile industry fails to make a commitment, european legislation with a target of 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometer is of course necessary. secondly, the german government is convinced that if the automotive industry in europe has set itself this target for 2012, then it should be taken at its word. the german government has not taken a position on this either. secondly, the federal government is convinced that this target of 120 grams must be achieved by two things: first, by vehicle technology and second, by partial crediting of biofuels. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i don't know why it shouldn't work. we should then debate this, but the point is: are we going to allow - and i ask you to consult together in a calm manner - the expansion of the first generation of biofuels to create further competition for food, which has meanwhile led to the corn bread, the food of the poorest of the poor, being 60% more expensive in mexico, or are we going to invest in the second generation of biofuels, in synthetic fuels? - yes or no? if we want this, we must create a market interest. of course, the automobile industry and the oil industry are interested in developing synthetic fuels which will not allow this food competition if we give them the opportunity to reach part of this 120-gram target by adding biofuels. we must discuss the content of this. but please do not pretend, mrs harms, that the federal government has anything against a legislative proposal with a target of 120 grams. thirdly, we hope to agree that we must achieve this target on average for all vehicles by reducing consumption and co2 emissions in both upper-class and mid-range cars and smaller vehicles. if the european car industry's self-imposed obligation is to be enforced by law, then it must be enforced in the way it was intended, namely in all vehicle classes, so that an average of 120 grams of co2 per kilometre is reached. the fourth point, mrs harms, is that i believe that there are two things that we must not do. maybe we can agree on that. that is also the position of the federal government. it is wrong to bring the automobile industry into the emissions trading system in europe, because that would make the emissions trading system even more complex, and it is already over-complex. that is why it makes sense to regulate this outside of emissions trading. we also agree that we should not privatise a technological task of the future, namely the reduction of co2 emissions, by saying that this is ultimately dependent on individual driving behaviour. it is a technological challenge and we want to meet it by changing vehicle technology and by taking part in the technological development of synthetic biofuels and their blending. if your question concerned the position of the federal government, i hope i have given you an adequate answer. if your question was addressed to the council presidency at the top - and that is what i understand - then i would be grateful if you would be so fair as to give the council presidency the chance to have at least a guiding debate in the environment council. this is possible only after the commission has submitted a communication to that effect. and if your proposal were to be understood as asking for such a communication so that we can have an orientation debate, this would be the only part of your speech on which i would agree with you! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we should continue this car debate because it shows the exact gap between words and deeds. mr gabriel, your proposal to combine the blending of biofuels and the commitment to the efficiency of cars is a blunder. because even if i sell a car that can run on biofuels, i can't be sure that the customer will actually drive it afterwards. that is to say, in the system you propose, it is completely unclear how emissions are to be measured. it creates huge problems. you talk about 120 grams of co2 emissions per kilometre, but in fact you want the same as the german car manufacturers, so 130 or 140 grams. this would not only be a fatal step for europe, it would be a fatal step for the whole world. because we have to get to between 60 and 100 grams by 2020 at the latest. so the 120 grams can only be an intermediate step. i also thank you for your clarifications. i hope that mrs merkel and mr glos share this view, because that has not been made clear in the press in recent days. i am not german, but germany has always been one of the great pioneers for me, because the citizens of germany give the first priority to environmental protection and climate protection. it is a terrible shame for a german presidency which has set itself the task of achieving great things in the field of climate protection to fall over on the first question, which should involve the slightest pressure on the economy!
in writing. the european commission's concern for healthy eating and physical activity for all citizens is commendable, in order to combat overweight, obesity and chronic diseases. but the motion for a resolution with 18 recitals and 53 paragraphs which the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled is unacceptable in that it proposes provisions which advocate the interference of the wrongdoer in the competence of the member states, inter alia, in the form of a community legislative framework. i am of course in favour of the alarm that we want to sound in the face of the obesity epidemic, which affects 3 million children and 20 to 30% of adults, while 14 million children and half the adult population are overweight. in the fight to promote healthy eating habits and the use of quality products, we have class allies, the euro-toques, an association which brings together 4 000 chefs in 17 member states, who adhere to a code of honour and defend the intrinsic quality of products and the safeguarding of local products. i think we would be well inspired to take advantage of their know-how and their availability to promote best practice... (explanation of vote by the commission pursuant to rule 163 (1) of the rules of procedure)
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when global problems are mounting, some member states of the union are being tempted by nationalism. the indisputable lesson of the globalisation process is that even germany, france, great britain and poland are too small in relation to the predictable rise of certain major nations. they all agree that the treaty of nice is no longer sufficient to ensure effective governance of the union of 27. but the constitutional treaty is broken. not only because of the non-french and dutch but because some heads of government refuse to honour their signatures. the vision of europe cannot be summed up in the single market. our citizens want a more social dimension, more efficiency in joint action. european integration began with the coal and steel community. last year, china became the world's largest steel producer. in january, china and russia signed 15 energy cooperation agreements, including one on the construction of two gas pipelines with a capacity of 40 billion cubic meters each. this month, india, china and russia are meeting for a trilateral forum to promote trade. the united states and russia have just signed an agreement on joint nuclear research. the chinese, japanese, indians, russians and americans are working together to develop new technologies to combat climate change. and europe in all this? we are far from the solidarity of the defunct ecsc. we are struggling to define a solidary, and therefore necessarily common, energy policy, while our energy dependence is increasing. we are giving priority to ambitious targets, but for 2020, 2030 or 2050, that is to say, unpredictable horizons. mrs merkel reminded us this morning that the union was responsible for 15% of global co2 emissions. according to commissioner dimas, our share fell to 14% in 2006. this does not indicate a greater efficiency of the europeans, but an increase in emissions of other industrialized nations. it is obvious that europe must set an example, but it is equally obvious that we cannot tackle global problems alone. europe has the strength to weigh in on the global debate. we remain the world's leading economic power, generating 30% of the world's gross domestic product. more than a third of the world's two thousand largest companies are european, and we remain leaders in virtually all sectors except digital and biotechnology. to overcome this gap, the lisbon summit defined a strategy. it is still relevant, even though progress is desperately slow, particularly in research and innovation. the next summit provides an opportunity for a new beginning. all the tests are done, all the problems are known. the time for concrete decisions must come, and the political revival of europe must take place by june at the latest; that is at least the ambition of the socialists.
the commission has already done so. i am pleased to note, first of all, that the women are setting the tone in this debate. unfortunately, this report was not a good one from the beginning. the report has improved somewhat, but it is still too confusing for me to send the right and clear signals to the commission, so that it also understands, mrs fischer boel, that the soup is not being eaten as hot as you cooked it in your communication. i shall include those parts of the report which continue to regard a specific market organization for wine as indispensable. it is a provocation to me that the commission is now superficially working on proposals for a single market organization for all agricultural products, while we are at the same time for months debating the reform of the common organization for wine, fruit and vegetables. how seriously does the commission take us? what's she got in the back of her head? as far as the wine market is concerned, we need money in the first pillar. we need to make better use of resources in order to maintain and improve our production potential, to win back old markets, to conquer new ones, to promote moderate, healthy consumption of wine. we need more subsidiarity, more responsibility for the profession, to spend the money more regionally. however, the regions which have made the least effort to produce and market quality wine should not be rewarded for having spent hundreds of millions on the distillation of unsellable wine, on the basis of so-called 'historical criteria', once again in the distribution of national funds. you can't do that! nor is there any question of prohibiting the northern regions, which have marketed their quality wine without european money, from producing their wines using traditional methods. this does not solve the structural problems in the regions where the structural reforms have been passed over on the cushion of the distillation millions. in fact, we do not have a structural surplus of wine in europe, but we have a quantitative surplus of wine that has been planted illegally. if a winegrower wants to give up early, this should be possible and socially cushioned, but without causing irreparable environmental damage by clearing within the perimeter for quality wines. sales markets must be able to be fought on a fair competitive basis worldwide. european wines may not be made with water from europe and imported must from third countries. nor are blends of european and imported wines considered. what was the commission thinking? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, since i have only one minute, i shall concentrate on the energy problem. i believe that the bank can help us to regain credibility at european level, but we must stop being too general when it comes to renewable energy and energy efficiency. i propose that you present four concrete initiatives at the march summit: a major european fund for the renovation of europe's housing - 50% of european gas is used to heat poorly insulated houses - a fund to finance the modernisation of public lighting in europe, which should make it possible to replace only six to eight polluting coal-fired power stations in three years; a fund for european cities, which will make it possible to invest in public transport, because if we do not change the policy in the big cities, we cannot change the european transport policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you can afford it. help us to give hope to the citizens of europe.
mr president, my group believes that this proposal from the committee on the environment to table an oral question with debate and resolution on crossborder healthcare is unwelcome for the simple reason that the committee on the internal market, supported by the committee on social affairs, is currently discussing a draft report on the same subject, namely healthcare services in the european union. the vote on this resolution is likely to be a double-edged sword and, above all, to cut short the debates taking place in the other two committees. my group would therefore be in favour of this oral question being put with debate, but it would ask that the resolution be suspended and dealt with at the same time as the report of the committee responsible. i understand that this report is due to be tabled in the may part-session. let us therefore avoid duplicating our work and try to do serious parliamentary work. in other words, we must wait for the report of the committee responsible to be available.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this weekend, documents were leaked to the german magazine der spiegel, which are intended to prove or suggest that there have been manipulations at the leipzig electricity exchange. the reactions in germany are understandably very strong. we also need a european response. the electricity exchanges in europe are interconnected and if the price is artificially raised on the leipzig electricity exchange, this also has an impact on the other countries. i therefore call on the european commission to proactively address these allegations. this is about the credibility of the european internal electricity market, and it is also about consumers who may have been robbed of billions of euros.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr howitt on his report. however, i am not sure that i am so happy about the deal he made with the ppe-de group to weaken what we will vote on tomorrow. yesterday i participated in a citizens’ consultation, and it is quite obvious what citizens want – they want europe to be more active on environmental issues. i think that last friday’s council was well received by citizens. the second thing that citizens want is greater social responsibility, and i am afraid the barroso-verheugen commission went in entirely the opposite direction when it took office. so, commissioner, you have already turned somewhat on environmental and energy issues under pressure from science and from citizens. i hope that this report by parliament, especially if it is not watered down too much tomorrow, will help you to reconsider your social agenda. it was the commission not being active enough in the multi-stakeholder dialogue that played a large part in frustrating ngos to the extent that they left the table completely. there are some good bits in the report which will be voted on tomorrow. i just wanted to highlight one issue: the deletion of paragraph 63, in which we call for global leadership from the european union on this issue. why is this important? with more chinese oil and mining companies investing in africa and other areas, if europe does not elevate corporate social responsibility from a purely european issue to a global, un issue, our companies will lose out, so i do not understand how the ppe-de and the pse groups can delete a paragraph from the original report as voted on that calls for us to be much more proactive on a global level.
in writing. the fact that we are discussing 50 years after the treaty of rome the equality between women and men is not an example of success. this principle has been enshrined in the treaty since 1999. the legal basis for this policy is therefore sound. the report is useful in making up for the delay, but it leaves much to be desired. on the occasion of international women's day, the main theme in my country was the individualisation of pension rights and the distribution of those rights accumulated during marriage in the event of divorce. i welcome the fact that the roadmap provides that social protection systems should allow for the accumulation of individual pension rights. i would remind you that this parliament, on the basis of one of my 1991 resolutions, adopted a report in 1994 on the division of pension rights in the event of divorce. he has made concrete proposals to the commission, but they have not been acted upon. why would you do that? the same applies to my report and our proposals to create a framework for the status of caring spouses. this is all part of the policy of equality. we have heard enough of the fine words of successive commissioners: where are the deeds?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr steinmeier, apart from the euphoria, which is partly justified, this is the right place and time to examine whether these lofty objectives are not also underpinned by a substrate. as the european green party, we will be proposing a ten-point package of measures in berlin this weekend to make europe climate-friendly. we will do so with greater enthusiasm than mr verheugen, who this morning again considered climate protection as a burden on the eu economy rather than a driver of innovation. security of supply is important, especially when it comes to natural gas. but the best thing we can do in europe is not to build new pipelines, but to follow the successful model of the german credit institution for reconstruction, i.e. to transfer the loans for the modernisation of the housing stock to the european investment bank! more than 40% of europe's energy is pulverized in poorly insulated buildings, and more than 70% of russian natural gas is consumed in european buildings. so a measure of efficiency in the building stock is much more important than anything we can do on the supply side. it's the same with oil. it's not pipelines that are helping us, it's more modern cars. i do not know whether mr juncker has children. mr schulz seems to know more. i know that he is now getting a new state coach, and as a convinced european he told the luxembourg press on monday that he would soon be buying a japanese hybrid car if the european car industry did not build more environmentally friendly cars. so we need efficiency standards for 2020, because the cars we're going to drive in 2020 are already being designed. we also need a speed limit in germany because the many hundreds of kilometres of 'free travel for free citizens' is not just a german problem but a global one, because cars all over the world are over-engineered and not efficient enough.
mr president, i voted against this report on the guidelines for the budgetary procedure because it again contains, as regards the budget of the european parliament, remarks with which i do not agree, which concern our three places of work. i would remind you that these are fixed in accordance with the treaty. i am not one of those who deplores what is exaggeratedly described in this report as the geographical dispersion of our administration between the three workplaces. i do not see any negative impact on the geographical configuration of the european parliament, quite the contrary. i am against paragraph 33, in particular the proposal on the number of missions carried out by our staff in the three workplaces. i know the administration is very frugal in this matter. i do not agree to invite the secretary-general to submit a report on the staff missions to the three workplaces by 1 july 2007; there's something else to do, i'm not fooled. the underlying intention is a so-called rationalisation effort to empty the workplaces of luxembourg and strasbourg of their substance. i can only emphasize my disapproval of the absurd intention, contained in paragraph 40, to suspend the growth of our housing stock and not to consider an extension of our buildings. our housing policy of acquiring the buildings we need to function properly has saved a lot of money, thousands of euros, for taxpayers compared to the cost of a rental and i can only wonder, mr president, that a majority of the committee on budgets does not seem to understand, or does not want to understand, that we must use in 2008 the margin of manoeuvre we have on the 20% ceiling to anticipate housing expenditure. mr president, you know, and it is important to say here, that this practice of spending on housing makes for considerable savings, and this for the benefit of the taxpayer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a question of the staffing of the european parliament's premises in luxembourg. the post of managing director has been vacant for seven months. to my question on this subject from december 2006, mr president, you replied on 1 february 2007 that the internal call for tenders had not produced any results and that a competition would be held. two months later, your administration gave my colleague turmes the same answer. now an official of the commission is listed on parliament's staff list as a temporary assistant, as if the long-serving official currently holding the post needed a patron. i would now like to know whether there are any objections to the prompt and proper filling of this post, for example by the committee on budgets or by the quaestors. or how to explain this delay in the tendering procedure?
in writing. eu citizens are interested in fast, affordable payment systems and in the creation of an efficient and functioning internal market for the transfers they make and the payments they receive. the vote on mr jean-paul gauzès' report is a matter of satisfaction, because for the european parliament it is a job well done in the interests of all, which proves to them that europe makes their daily lives easier. but we could have gotten this result much faster. we had finished our work in the economic and monetary affairs committee on 12 september last year. despite the goodwill of the european parliament, it took the council seven months to finally be convinced that our proposals are the best ones also for consumer protection. it was also important to ensure fair competition between the payment institutions created or legitimised by this directive and the banks which are subject to strict capital regulations. it is important to maintain the good reputation of the payment services sector by keeping out any dubious payment service providers. the time for payment set by the council is more stringent than that proposed by us. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. our budgetary control committee has again sinned by excessive zeal. if we were to implement some of his proposals, we would have to hire a small army of officials to do unnecessary work and controls, which would not bring transparency or help to combat abuse, but would only lead to unnecessary costs and hassle. i regret that neither the rapporteur nor a majority of the committee members were willing to take into account the comments of the chairman of the members' voluntary pension fund to eliminate obvious untruths, including with regard to the statute which will come into force in 2009. instead of behaving like irresponsible populists, some members of the committee on budgetary control would do better to deal with real problems, for example the potentially exorbitant costs of the pension system for french and italian meps, which will be in the order of €150 million. i am in favour of discharge, but i voted against a whole series of proposals which are as far-fetched as they are expensive and completely unnecessary and have nothing to do with the 2005 discharge.
mr president, i agree with the very positive remarks of my predecessor. mr president, 37 member states will have to ratify this agreement before it can be applied. until then, bilateral agreements, where they exist, will be applied. our rapporteur stresses that a uniform approach is inappropriate with regard to the associated countries. however, the intergovernmental approach to a joint committee that is more extensive than necessary, as she politely says - and i would like to congratulate mrs lichtenberger on her report - does add considerable weight to cooperation. it goes without saying that the introduction of the sesar system will facilitate air traffic management and we can only give our full support to commissioner jacques barrot in order to speed up the development phase of sesar as much as possible. it should be remembered that this system would be a considerable contribution to the environment, which would be more efficient than the system of trading in emission allowances which is now being imposed on civil aviation, with a better organized airspace and a real saving of kerosene. not just open skies but also clean skies, as you said, commissioner. i would like to reiterate my concern that the agreements to be ratified by the member states will delay the implementation of sesar. the stage which is before us tonight is a great one and the date for 2010 is ambitious. the development phase of sesar is expected to be completed in 2013. the commissioner, it is justified to have the ambition to make progress in the interests of environmental safety, but i would ask the commission to tell us whether it is not possible to make progress in the work and what is the state of progress of the regulatory work in the member states. could the commission inform parliament regularly of the progress of this work?
mr president, yesterday in the debate vice-president barrot announced that he would table a written version of the commission's position on the amendments tabled by the members and i note that this document has not been distributed. i would ask you to ensure that the commission's positions are available to members of parliament, since many of them are waiting to hear the commission's positions.
in writing. i supported all the amendments in favour of innovative therapies, and in particular cell therapy products. i voted against the amendments of the eternal reactionaries who, under the pretext of defending the newborn life, the embryo, want to prohibit any use of cells of embryonic origin, even indirectly. in their eagerness to sanctify every embryonic cell, advocates of newborn life overlook the life that is there, the genetic diseases and all the human suffering that could be prevented or lessened by innovative therapies.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the initial report by my distinguished colleague bernadette vergnaud should, in theory, be approved by all members. the objective of enabling all europeans to receive adequate health care when travelling, whether for business or pleasure, throughout europe is simply a matter of freedom of movement. but the right to mobility of patients can only be guaranteed if the member states of the union retain the capacity to regulate health care, in order to control its financing, because if health care has no price, it has a cost, and a cost that is increasing. and that cost is getting bigger and bigger, and the risk of making the funding of social protection and health care for all in all of our states unmanageable is there. some political forces in this parliament have a simplistic answer to this concern, shared by virtually all the ministers for health: let the market do its thing, entrust the financing of social security to private insurance. i also suspect that commissioner kyprianou shares these somewhat ultra-liberal views. he told the figaro: competition between european health services is inevitable, and people can shop around at the financial times. the socialist group does not share this view. yes, the right to health care for all across europe, but not a market where the highest bidder gets the best possible care, while the poorest and least mobile get only the bare minimum. those who believe that the market, that the market alone can guarantee quality health care for all should consider the situation in the united states of america. in this large country, health care costs are the highest in the world, amounting to some 15% of gdp, almost double the european average. but this expensive system is excluding more and more american citizens: in 2006, 46.6 million americans were without health insurance. this is certainly not an example for europe to follow, mr president.
member of the commission. mr president, i will begin in french and say a word to mr goebbels. i have been called many things in my political life, but this is the first time i have been called ultra-liberal. that is why i would like to explain myself, because i think that what i said to the figaro and also to the financial times was not understood. to be sure that i am understood, i will continue in english. what i was saying to the newspapers was that the existing situation was not my policy. what i was describing and i would like to come back to this was the reality after the european court of justice judgments, which stated that internal market rules apply to healthcare even if it is publicly funded. it is probably not parliament's policy, but it is a reality with which we have to work. it is inevitable that, if people can travel to seek treatment abroad, there may be some competition; people should have the choice. so the challenge for us is how we can make this right, recognised by the european court of justice, work primarily for the benefit of european citizens but not so as to undermine and destroy member states' healthcare systems. a lot has been said about subsidiarity in article 152 and i would like to remind you of what the court said on that. the court said that, even though member states have the right to organise and deliver health services and medical care, this does not exclude the possibility that member states may be required under other treaty provisions to make adjustments to their national health systems. hence the application of internal market rules. so this is the first legal reality we have to work with, but of course we also have a factual reality. unfortunately there are inequalities in european healthcare systems: member states cannot offer the same level of healthcare to their citizens. people who seek treatment travel abroad and, if they are denied this right, they go to the court of justice. i think you will agree with me that we cannot have every citizen going to luxembourg and seeking a judgment from the european court of justice to decide whether he or she can have an operation. that is why we are faced with the challenge of how can we make these principles established by the court work both for citizens and member states. i must emphasize that our main target is to deal with the inequalities that exist in the european union. we have policies and strategies, which we will be able to discuss later this year, on how to achieve this. it is also very important that we recognise what has already been said, that citizens would rather have treatment at home, close to where they live, and this is the main priority for all of us. but, until we deal with inequalities, people will need to seek treatment abroad. also, as we have already said, it makes more sense in border regions to cross the border than to take a long journey to your country's capital. there are also scientific reasons: sometimes specialised treatments may be better provided in another member state. the existing legislation does not cover these issues because it is not just a question of patient mobility. we are also working on safety, quality, patients' rights and the patient's right to information. all these require legislation that is more thorough than the existing legislation. furthermore, the principles in the existing legislation are different from those described by the court, so we also have to deal with this. the challenge is how to make all this work. i believe that we are now dealing with one of the most important initiatives in this area. patient mobility should complement, not replace, the provision of healthcare at home. this is the main objective, but all citizens should have the same opportunities, regardless of their income or education or language skills. they have to be able to take advantage of this right in a way that will be decided by the policymakers, but it must be decided on the basis of equality for all european citizens. medical tourism is a totally different issue. we are not dealing with that, we are not touching on that, we are not encouraging that. this is something that is dealt with by the private sector, private citizens, and private funds. it is not something that we will be working on. again, it is a reality: people travel because they want to combine holidays with medical treatment, but that is not something we are working on at this time. it is important to deal with the issue of overall cross-border healthcare as soon as possible now, proactively before it becomes too big to handle. it's not just the issue of paying for health care, but also the availability of health care which may be overburdened by incoming patients. that is another issue we will take into account. we will combine all the interests of the patients. in view of the realities we face and despite different approaches and different ideologies on the details, it is therefore very important that we work together to achieve what is best for the european citizens. i intend to do that and i hope the european parliament will work with us to that end.
mr president, i want to make it clear to commissioner kyprianou that he is not an ultra-liberal and i listened very carefully to his general views. that said, commissioner, what really shocked me in the commission's communication was the following sentence, and i quote: 'any action by the community must respect the principles already established by the court of justice in this field'. it is true that we must respect the case law, but in all our countries the legislators are there to possibly change the legal texts if the courts venture into dangerous territory. i think the court of justice is often too liberal in its judgments. it is up to us, the co-legislators, the commission, to set the bar if necessary.
member of the commission. mr president, as you know, the commission’s proposal under discussion follows the report presented by the commission in may 2004 and the subsequent call by the council of 12 april 2005 for the commission to come forward with a proposal to revalorise the minimum rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages to compensate for inflation. its sole purpose is to maintain the real value of the minimum rate; it is not a proposal aimed at harmonisation or convergence of rates. i would like to begin by informing honourable members of the discussions which took place in the ecofin council in november 2006. in the council, there was strong resistance from a number of new member states who claimed that they had had nothing to do with the point of departure for counting inflation of 1993, as they were not then part of the community. i have some sympathy with this point of view and have therefore promoted a compromise, officially put forward by the finnish presidency, in the discussions with the member states. this compromise takes 1 may 2004, the date of accession of the 10 new member states, as the point of departure, and results in a much lower rate of inflation. instead of 31 %, the new proposed rate increase is only 4.5 %. unfortunately, this compromise proposal was vetoed by one member state, the czech republic – which, i might add, would be entirely unaffected by a 4.5 % revalorisation as the excise duty currently applied is higher. however, i am optimistic that, when the issue next returns to council, the czech position will have changed and that unanimity will be obtained. obviously, the impact of a 4.5 % revalorisation is minimal but, even so, transition periods will be available for the member states affected. in the case of bulgaria and romania, whose accession took place on 1 january 2007, such transition periods will be very generous. i would like to turn now to mrs lulling’s report, which certainly contains some fairly radical ideas. first, to repeat what i said at the very beginning, the commission proposal is not aimed at harmonisation or convergence of rates, but is simply a revalorisation, which, under the compromise i mentioned, will take 2004 as the point of departure. second, repealing the directive and abolishing minimum rates, as mrs lulling suggests, would have extreme consequences. for example, there would be no obligation at all for member states to apply excise duties on alcohol, which in turn would create more distortion of the internal market. the abolition of minimum rates could also result in less freedom for travellers because member states would press for tighter restrictions on the amount of alcohol that individuals could take from one member state to another in order to stem the inevitable revenue leakage. i am definitely against re-establishing borders within the eu for alcoholic beverages and i am therefore also against abolishing minimum rates. it would also set a dangerous precedent for the other excises, such as tobacco and energy, which are also subject to minimum rates, and for other taxes such as vat. member states are required to respect certain rules in relation to tax rates. it could also raise health-related concerns. i should also like to say something about the proposed code of conduct, which effectively introduces a positive rate of excise duty on wine. as you know, wine is currently subject to a minimum rate of zero, and this remains the case under the commission proposal. however, under the proposed code of conduct, the 15 member states that do not currently tax wine would not only need to introduce a positive rate, but would ultimately need to aim their trade towards the eu average, which is currently eur 48 per hectolitre. i am convinced that the proposed increase in excise duty on wine would not be widely supported by citizens. in conclusion, i sincerely hope that honourable members will reject the proposal made in the report and deliver an opinion supporting the commission proposals, as amended, of course, by the council compromise regarding in particular the date from which to start counting inflation, 1 may 2004, which would result in an increase of just 4.5 % in the minimum excise duty.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in politics sometimes courage is required. this is what parliament could do by voting tomorrow on my report, which proposes to abolish the minimum rates on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. these rates were fixed in 1992 in order to bring the rates applied in the various member states closer together. this reconciliation has not taken place, quite the contrary. but this is not the fault of the minimum rates, even though they have not been adjusted for inflation for the last 15 years. if they were increased by 31% - as the commission proposed in september 2006 - there would still be no significant convergence. the difference between these minimum rates, even if adjusted, and the rates on wine, beer and spirits applied by the northern member states of the union would remain enormous. the tax is 0.0936 euros on a liter of beer in the czech republic and malta, compared with 1.43 euros on a liter of beer in finland! in the course of long months of discussion the council has not been able to agree on an adjustment of these minimum rates, however slight. it has just decided to invite the commission to carry out a detailed study of the taxation of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, including trends in competitive positions and price levels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is only one reasonable, logical, intelligent way of doing this: to ignore minimum rates which no longer have any reason to exist and to agree on a code of conduct which will help the member states to bring their excise rates closer together, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, which you have forgotten in your speech. that is what the committee on economic and monetary affairs is proposing in my report. as regards the amendments tabled for the plenary by the socialist and green group, i propose that they be rejected. the socialist amendments would lead to tinkering with the rate increase and the timetable. but what is more serious is that they now provide for automatic adjustments to the european price index if it rises by 0.5%, without consulting parliament and the council. given our fight against comitology, such a proposal is a piece of folklore! to propose a zero rate, as the socialists did, for bulgarian boilers that consume their own production, was window dressing, it was throwing dust in the eyes of the bulgarian citizens before the european elections in bulgaria on 20 may. it is a matter of great importance, because the authors of the amendment in question know very well that such an exemption would be impractical and would have no chance of being adopted unanimously in the council. the same thing happened when my report was removed from the agenda of the mini-session on 9 may, to prevent the bulgarian socialists from showing their true colours before 20 may. this did not help much given the result of the socialists in bulgaria, which was not very glorious, fortunately. as for the green amendments, i must first of all say that they do not know that it is not the commission, fortunately, but the council which has to decide on taxation. such a disregard for the treaty is a serious matter for a group that is constantly teaching lessons to everyone in this house! if the greens had not withdrawn at the last minute their amendments nos 24 and 26, which give the commission the task of fixing a maximum rate, they would have been declared inadmissible because they are incompatible with the treaty. to describe wine as a substitute for beer, as the greens do in their amendment no 25, is quite fanciful and shows an underdeveloped gastronomic culture. the wine growers of france, germany and luxembourg will not forget that by 2009 their green meps have proposed to abolish the zero rate for wine, which is a very important agricultural product. these countries, which have chosen to apply the zero rate, are certainly not ready to vote for its abolition from 2008. commissioner, you have defended your position, which has already died in the council. i regret that you have not seized the opportunity we offer you on a silver platter to break the deadlock without losing face. that's too bad. the commissioner, you are certainly familiar with the latin: errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum ...
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers who contributed to the debate. as i said in my opening remarks, repealing the directive and abolishing minimum rates would have extreme consequences, and i should like to say a little more about this. without minimum rates, there would be no obligation whatsoever on member states to apply excise duties at all on alcohol, and, indeed, given the low importance that some member states attach to alcohol excise duties in terms of low duty levels, this must be seen as a real possibility. i have no doubt that, in the absence of minimum rates, some member states would press for tighter restrictions on the amount of alcohol that individuals can take from one member state to another, in order to stem the inevitable revenue leakage, and this would result in less freedom for citizens. there is also some suggestion that minimum rates interfere with member states’ sovereignty. in fact it is quite the opposite. they support member states’ sovereignty by allowing member states to pursue their own fiscal policies, without the threat of those policies being undermined by other member states and, in particular, by cross-border shopping and smuggling. that does not mean that minimum rates are designed to protect higher-taxing member states. the fact that the minimum rates are set at a fairly low level and remain low even after the 4.5% revalorisation leaves member states with plenty of room for manoeuvre. those who wish to set their national rates at levels close to the minimum are not precluded from doing so. equally, those who wish to set their rates far above the minimum are free to do so, but they must take the responsibility for the consequences. i want to confirm once again that the purpose of the proposal is certainly not harmonisation – not even approximation. the purpose of the proposal is revalorisation. as regards the possibility that the increase of minimum excise duty rates generated inflation, it certainly did not do that: it is a compensation for the inflation that has already taken place. to the argument that it can increase the black economy, i say that the lack or abolition of excise duty can generate smuggling and cross-border shopping which has nothing to do with fair competition at all. finally, as far as the czech breweries and consumers are concerned, they will not suffer because, in the czech republic, the current excise duty rate is much higher than the new common minimum rate will be after the increase.
the rapporteur. i would like to speak as rapporteur, as is the case in most national parliaments - i have been a member for 25 years and i can answer as rapporteur. i would like to say, commissioner, that ...
but you gave so many minutes to the commissioner, and you do not allow me to answer. this is not a debate! we are in a parliament here!
we are in a parliament, mr president, and i have the right to respond to the commissioner and to the speakers. i would like to reply to mrs berès who has reproached me with wanting to wipe out the past by abolishing the rates. mr president, my proposal has been very misunderstood. i would like to correct this misunderstanding, because we said we were eliminating excise duties. no, you can't! the abolition of minimum rates does not eliminate excise duties: each member state is free to fix them, each member state is also free to adjust them. i don't think we should say things that are completely off the mark here, so pass me the expression. if you mix alcoholism, the fight against alcoholism and rates, i want to tell you that alcoholism is worst in the member states with the highest rates. i very much regret, mr president, that you did not give me time to reply, particularly to the commissioner, because the commissioner wanted to suggest that our amendment for a code of conduct would lead to excise duty rates on wine of 48 euro/hl ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must limit the excessive prices charged to the 200 million europeans who use their freedom of movement in the union. as the actual cost to operators is between 6 and 15 cents per minute, the cumulative price of one minute of active and passive roaming provided for in the regulation leaves operators with substantial margins. the apostles of the market should reflect on the failure of their theory in the face of the harsh reality of the telephone market! the liberalization of the sector was accompanied by a technological revolution which increased the supply of goods. the general public's obsession with mobile phones, texting, etc., has not led to really attractive prices. the economies of scale, the productivity gains, the enormous growth of the communications market have not led to more favourable rates. consumers were only confronted with non-transparent offers that tied them to an operator. vodafone, telecom and other telefónica companies are committed to the single market provided they can maintain internal frontiers for tariff reasons. the political power had to intervene in the market, which is usually so sacred. this is a first in the union, a welcome precedent. the commission was always railing against prices, but the roaming case proves that the market sometimes needs the visible hand of the public authorities, especially in the case of a market as failing as the telecommunications market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a general problem in the internal market, because the opening up of the market is often accompanied by oligopolisation. we have now built a crutch that will produce results in the short term. but fundamentally, the fundamental conditions of competition must be improved. i expect the rip-off of the dominant phone companies to continue. it will now shift from tourists and businessmen and politicians who travel a lot to the weakest participants. these are very often young people and children. if we see the aggressive advertising of ringtones and the problems we have with the content of violent or pornographic films on mobile phones, then the next task for the commission will be to have the political courage, on the basis of the consultations which will take place in this area and which will end on 7 june, to take legislative action to tackle this problem, too, in order to better control the use of mobile phones by children and young people.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who have welcomed me here so kindly. i know from my old days that parliament follows a strict timetable. i would like to mention one or two points which have played a part in the debate here, and which are also a sign of the culture of dialogue which the german presidency intends to foster. the intervention in the market has been criticised by many colleagues here, such as mr alvaro, mr reul and mr farage, but i would like to remind you once again that we all agree that the market needs rules. and the competition has to be fair. this has not been the case in the area of roaming, because the consumer has no choice between different offers. that is why the competition was not fair and why action was necessary. the single market is only credible to citizens if the european union also ensures that they are not given an advantage in this single market. the impression has been given that those who favour low maximum prices are on the side of consumers, while those who favour higher maximum prices are on the side of businesses. there were also many votes in the council in favour of raising prices a little. but it is not that simple, because the consumer is best served by dynamic and tough competition. i would remind everyone that the success story of the single market and of all liberalisation is based on this competition. it is crucial that the diversity of tariffs be maintained, that there be innovation in the area of roaming too. many member states have attached great importance to this in the council of ministers. it would not have helped us if roaming charges had been effectively cemented. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we want to preserve the design possibilities for the consumer, but also for industry. the consumer must continue to have a choice, and this compromise will achieve that. the date of entry into force of the regulation was discussed on many occasions. i can assure you that the german presidency has the greatest interest in seeing the regulation come into force as soon as possible. but it is quite simply that after today's vote there are a number of formal steps to be taken before publication in the official journal. first, your decision must be transmitted to the council and then political agreement reached in the council on 7 june , then the various language versions must be drawn up in the second week of june , the linguistic lawyers from all the institutions must read the text against each other in the third week of june , then the permanent representatives committee and the council of ministers must formally decide so that, if all possible efforts are made, publication is possible on 29 june. i can assure you that in all the committees that are still being considered, this dossier has priority. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the only way to ensure a correct procedure is within that timeframe. this should be borne in mind by all those who also want to avoid legal risks in the publication of this regulation. without going into all the details, we have broken a european record by adopting this directive in a short time. i've never heard a european champion complain about running two tenths of a second too slow. neither should we. let us rejoice in our common success!
member of the commission. madam president, this is a good day for parliament, with a good consensus to get rid of market failure and to guarantee consumer protection. permit me to respond briefly to the questions that have been raised. the first thing is that we are not fixing prices; we are setting ceilings under which competition will have ample room to offer attractive price packages. i would also underline that the consensus reached today is very close to the commission’s original proposal but with the flexibility, which the commission welcomes, for customers to choose other packages when they wish. there has been some criticism of the regulation of prices at retail level. it is true that this is a very exceptional circumstance, which has to be taken into consideration when there is a market failure. here we have a market failure at european level. we very often have market failure at national level, and then the national regulators regulate retail prices. so what we are doing at european level is also done regularly at national level. there was a question as to why the commission is doing nothing against cartels. the commission is acting; my colleague mrs kroes has investigated them under competition rules. in the case of roaming, it is much more efficient to work with ex ante regulation, and that this is effective has been shown by the fact that it has been possible to come up with a piece of legislation after just 10 months of work. many colleagues also raised the question of regulating roaming data communications. i can assure parliament that during the next 18 months the national regulators will monitor the price of data communications and they will report to the commission. i hope that today will be a wake-up call for operators also in terms of data roaming, and i hope that they will bring down those prices so that we will not have to intervene on that issue. herr präsident! einige bemerkungen auf deutsch. ich freue mich für werner langen, dass er seinen widerstand aufgibt und endlich auf einen kompromiss zugeht. das war schwierig für werner, aber ich glaube, er hat es fertig gebracht. ich möchte auch meinem freund joachim wuermeling sagen, dass ich nun den rat wirklich bitte, tempo zu machen und die reglementierung so schnell wie möglich, – und das heißt nicht erst ende juni, sondern schon viel eher –im amtsblatt zu veröffentlichen. mesdames, messieurs, chers collègues, c'est un grand jour pour le parlement, pour un parlement uni pour défendre les citoyens au-delà des divisions politiques habituelles. c'est beau et, en tant qu'ancienne parlementaire, je suis contente de voir cela. c'est aussi un grand jour pour les institutions européennes, qui démontrent leur capacité d'agir dans l'intérêt commun, rapidement, efficacement, ensemble. c'est un grand jour pour les européens, qui voient fonctionner l'europe des citoyens, qui voient fonctionner l'europe des projets concrets. enfin, c'est, bien sûr, un grand jour pour les consommateurs, qu'ils soient touristes ou business travellers: ils ont vu leurs institutions européennes corriger l'échec du marché de l'itinérance avec des eurotarifs plafonnés et la transparence des prix. ils pourront constater l'effet de cette action parce que leurs factures de téléphone vont fondre. avec la décision d'aujourd'hui, une des dernières frontières de l'europe tombe, celle des surfacturations qui pénalisent les citoyens exerçant leur droit à la libre circulation. permettez-moi de terminer par un appel aux opérateurs de téléphonie pour leur demander de ne pas attendre plus longtemps avant de s'engager dans une véritable compétition pour offrir le meilleur tarif d'itinérance à leurs consommateurs, un tarif en dessous des plafonds que le parlement va décider aujourd'hui. (applaudissements)
i have to say, madam president, let me make a brief comment on the council. i would like to thank the german presidency for making every effort to ensure that this regulation is published in the official journal as soon as possible. but mr wuermeling, you are not likely to break the european record! it is held by the agriculture ministers, who have already succeeded in getting a european regulation published in the official journal within a week.
the rapporteur. mr president, i proposed to my group and to the many colleagues who followed me that the report be rejected because the line i had proposed was not followed and i have the impression that some members of this parliament - the votes were very close - did not know what they were voting for. (protests) sorry, didn't know the scope of their vote. moreover, mr president, since the commission is silent - even though mr kovács spoke twice last night, and i, the rapporteur, was refused to answer - i must admit that it is powerless. we made a proposal to break the deadlock. unfortunately, we were not followed, mr president. so there is no report from parliament on this proposal and the commission and the council can continue to stand by and persist in their deadlock. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted for the report on roaming on public mobile phone networks death in the soul because it goes against my most important political convictions. i consider any price fixing by the legislator to be an unnecessary intervention in the market economy and a relic of another age which should not have been revived. the application of the eurotariff thus fixed will cause major problems for operators in small member states, who will have difficulties in financing the investments necessary for the application of the new roaming conditions. the long-term effects of this regulation could even be compounded by an increase in national communications tariffs, which would be counterproductive and disastrous for the proper functioning of national economies. i am in favour of transparent pricing and reducing the cost of roaming in the spirit of free competition, but this reduction must not be achieved through the fixing of retail prices and at the expense of national tariffs. i am also glad that the principle of opt-in is safeguarded in this compromise, even though an unconditional and unlimited opt-in would have been preferable. this rule lasted only three years - what a comfort!
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank mrs gibault, an artist herself, for preparing this very important report, and nathalie griesbeck for introducing the report tonight. when celebrating the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome, i think we realise how much culture is at the heart of the european project. we have programmes and projects at eu level that encourage artists’ mobility in europe and thus strengthen intercultural dialogue in the european union. for example, in 2006, which was the european year of workers’ mobility, we co-financed three projects focusing on artists’ mobility out of a total of 41 projects funded over the year. these projects led to better acknowledgement at eu level of the various obstacles to artists’ mobility. it is a first step, and i know that if we are to improve the situation of artists in europe, many challenges still lie ahead of us concerning lifelong learning, work permits and social status. last month, i proposed a communication on culture with the title ‘a european agenda for culture in a globalising world’, which was adopted by the commission. i presented this communication to the committee on culture and education and to ministers at the last council meeting. the objective is to involve all stakeholders – member states, european institutions and the cultural world – in a shared agenda of priorities for the years ahead. improving the status of artists, which is linked to improved mobility and the circulation of works of art in the european union, is one of the strategy’s key challenges. it is a prerequisite if we want to succeed in having a european cultural space. therefore i am looking forward to working closely with you on this issue, and especially with the member states, because responsibility in this regard is primarily at national, regional and local level. turning back to the report, i particularly welcome the emphasis on lifelong learning and retraining. initial education nurtures the first spark of an artistic vocation, but continuing to retrain is the key to ensuring artists’ social situation in a rapidly evolving economy of the arts. as you know, strengthening the links between education and culture is also one of my objectives because i propose to designate 2009 ‘european year of creativity and innovation’. work is under way to prepare a eurydice survey of cultural and artistic education at compulsory school level in europe. this is one step towards improving our knowledge base and i hope that the year will stimulate research and the development of a stronger and wider evidence base and evidence-based policy and practice in relation to education in the arts. finally, i would like to stress that the issue of the status of artists in europe is a very broad topic, which cannot be dealt with in isolation by only one commissioner responsible for culture. therefore, within the framework of the communication we proposed last month, i will work closely with my colleagues responsible for employment, justice and the internal market in order to ensure that the specificities of the cultural sector are duly taken into account in other eu programmes and policies.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs gibault on all the work she has put into this report. commissioner frattini recently announced his draft directive on the european green card to attract the most highly qualified non-national workers and allow them to reside in the union for five years and travel without a visa. we learned last november, thanks to a study commissioned by the commission, that there is a strong professional class of 5.8 million european citizens in the european union, representing 3.1% of the working population and weighing 654 billion euros in turnover; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full. many of us enjoy going to concerts, theatres or circuses, but when our leisure time is over, the artists' work continues for a few applause, often a meager salary and almost always hassle in the halls of the tax and social security administration. i therefore commend our rapporteur for shedding light on the background. however, this is not our first attempt, because in 1992 doris pack had already drawn up a very comprehensive report, as did mrs vaz da silva in 1999. and what about initiatives by cultural organisations to promote the mobility and recognition of the status of artists? this report is not a conclusion, but a beginning. today, when we have approved the unesco convention and the commission has just submitted its strategic agenda for culture, it is time to act. i urge the member states and the commission, commissioner, to tone down their violins and to tackle the many technical and practical problems without delay. we know that you are not alone in this, commissioner, but the initiatives suggested in this report and in the other two i have just mentioned will have to be implemented. enough of the good talk, let's get down to business!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this parliament is prepared to agree to an amendment to the constitutional treaty, but only if the political content is correct, mr president-in-office. the effort of semantics to appease national sensibilities can be tolerated as long as the union as a whole is gaining capacity for action. this means more decisions by qualified majority, including in foreign policy. president sarkozy is pushing for a mini-contract. so, like the miniskirt, the mini contract hides the essential. the citizens of europe want clear relations, not legal quirks of square roots concocted by diplomats in a darkroom. whether the european flag or the european anthem is in the treaty is not vital. the flag with the stars will continue to fly and the ode to european joy will continue to be sung. but the fact that the foreign minister cannot be called foreign minister is a fraud on etiquette. if the next solana can only be active by unanimous decision of the foreign minister, he can be given the title of a postman. what is the point of a permanent president of the european council when a single polish twin can prevent necessary negotiations with russia, for example? the citizens - even many of the naysayers - do not want less europe, but a europe that takes care of their problems. these include basic rights which are binding on all citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted. the new treaty must provide that all commission proposals are to be accompanied by an assessment of the social impact. the legal basis for the protection of public services must be created. the council presidency has my support, but i will not agree to a lazy compromise, and i will certainly not be the only one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a new sport in strasbourg: standing in line to borrow bicycles. we have only 50 bicycles for several thousand staff and exactly seven bicycles for the more than 100 members of parliament, despite emas, despite green week, despite promises at the highest level of the european parliament. i do not know whether the problem is with the city of strasbourg or with us in the house. all i know is that there's a lot of resentment going on both inside and outside the house. i would be glad if we could reach a satisfactory solution as soon as possible. we are here in one of the most bicycle-friendly cities in europe, if not the world, and we are missing a few hundred bicycles!
member of the commission. madam president, first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on this excellent report. i also want to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation with the commission when drafting this report. over the past few years, russia has seen impressive economic development. this is partly due to high energy prices, but also, to a large degree, to a sound macroeconomic policy. russia is becoming a more and more important economic player in the world. growth of the russian economy has averaged 6-7% since 1999; russia has a considerable budget surplus, is an important destination for foreign direct investments and holds the third largest amount of foreign currency reserves. we should not forget how important russia is for the eu, and how important the eu is for russia. in economic terms, the picture is quite clear: we are by far russia’s most important trading partner and, in turn, russia is our third most important partner. the eu is by far the most important investor in russia. in short, we need each other and we need to work closely with each other; this is in our mutual interest. at the same time, it is also clear that some problems exist. there are questions about specific issues concerning the business climate, for example the continued high levels of corruption. but there is also a range of specific issues, such as the ban on imports of agricultural products from poland, the oil supplies to lithuania via the druzhba pipeline and the planned increases in export duties for wood. however, despite all these challenges, we should not forget that we also need to look at the overall situation and the very substantial opportunities. your report is thus very timely. it provides a comprehensive overview of the issues at stake in eu-russia relations. allow me to focus on four points concerning our economic relations that you also highlighted in the report. first, you rightly insist on the importance of the rule of law. this is not only important for the economic operators that want to invest in russia: it is also indispensable for the long-term economic and political development of russia itself. what is really needed – and this is not specific for russia – is sound and effective application of laws and rules, and a fully independent judiciary. only this will guarantee a predictable and stable economic environment. rules are the key to attracting investment. but we also need rules for other areas, such as intellectual property rights. the second point concerns the basis for our future cooperation. first of all, there is wto membership, which is not an abstract aim in itself. wto membership is the indispensable building block for successful and sustainable economic development. the commission is working hard with russia to achieve this as soon as possible, but we still need solutions for the outstanding issues. we also need to work towards launching negotiations on a new eu-russia framework agreement to update the current partnership and cooperation agreement. we should also consider a further deepening and strengthening of our bilateral trade and economic relations once russia has acceded to the wto. in this context, i would like to thank parliament for its support concerning the latest developments on siberian overflight payments. the fact that we had a clear position and maintained unity on this issue led to a good result. the signature of the agreement – which has so far only been initialled – is one of our priorities. this issue needs to be resolved before russia’s wto accession. president barroso made this point quite clear at the recent eu-russia summit in may. on that occasion, the russian government confirmed its intention to sign the agreement in the next few months. the third point concerns energy. you rightly say in your report that the primary objective of eu energy policy cannot simply be to avoid continued energy dependence on russia. we need fair rules, not politics – rules for predictability and certainty on both sides. the call for security of supply implies security of demand. our aim should be to promote two-way investment by energy providers and consumers, upstream and downstream. in this context we also need to agree on clear, enforceable standards for energy transit, as well as other aims. last, allow me a comment on the area i am responsible for: competition. over the past few years, the commission has established close cooperation with the russian federal anti-monopoly service. i believe we need to further strengthen this dialogue to identify areas where we can work more closely together and build on increasing convergence between our systems. competition law is an essential feature of good economic governance. the new law adopted last october has given russian competition policy the means to be really effective. therefore, we will continue to work with the russian competition authority in the context of the common economic space and future bilateral agreements with russia. in conclusion, allow me once again to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent and balanced report, which the commission will certainly take into account in our ongoing and future cooperation with russia.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the european union and the russian federation are geographically bound to remain neighbours. in view of this, it is important to ensure that the two political entities develop a neighbourhood policy that is as cooperative as possible. the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs strongly encourages the commission to negotiate with russia a regional free trade agreement in line with wto rules. our parliament is outraged by russia's failure to ratify the energy charter and the transit protocol. but norway has not ratified these instruments either, so they will remain inoperative. this is why a new strategic partnership agreement with russia is of interest. but the kaczynski brothers' poland is blocking the union. this is all the more unacceptable as the need for a common energy policy becomes more and more evident. the polish blockade risks the union missing a favourable opportunity to enter into negotiations which could lead to mutually beneficial outcomes. europe will become increasingly dependent on russian oil and gas, and the russians need solvent customers. they will not be able to supply their gas to asia until 2012, when the asian gas pipeline currently under construction is likely to be commissioned. moreover, half of russia's budget depends on revenues from the energy sector. finally, russia has a huge need for investment in its energy sector, which must meet growing demand. all the conditions are therefore in place for a balanced agreement, but the polish government is blocking progress. this will lead to more bilateral agreements between the various member states of the union and russia. the union as such will lose and poland will suffer as well.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, for her commitment and hard work in preparing this report. the work on this report has not been easy, but together with the members of the committee on employment and social affairs and with the contribution of the economic and monetary affairs committee and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the report we are discussing today will become a very important basis for further discussions leading to a final agreement on this fundamental directive, which has a clear rationale in the context of the revised lisbon strategy and a clear rationale in the context of social protection for migrant workers and workers who are generally mobile in the labour market. i welcome not only this report but also the atmosphere in which the european parliament has worked with the commission and the council to promote as much as possible of an agreement at first reading. i would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the german presidency on its work in taking up this matter and making real progress. the challenge this directive poses to the german pension system should not be underestimated, and it is also thanks to the german presidency and the deputy federal chancellor müntefering that such progress has been achieved. despite all these efforts, i share your disappointment that the agreement at first reading has failed this time. however, i believe that the constructive approach that has been shown so far will soon lead to the adoption of a directive, which will have a real impact on the barriers to mobility created by some supplementary pension schemes. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to emphasize again that this directive is not an abstract text, but that it directly affects millions of workers who change jobs in the modern labour market and at the same time take advantage of the possibilities of supplementary pension schemes. if we consider that 40% of the workers have been employed in the same company for less than five years, we can see how important the act and the directive are in this case. before i get to the substance of the report, let me briefly reiterate the purpose and context of the need for a european approach to this matter. the commission, members of the european parliament, the council and the social partners have long expressed concern at the apparent lack of rights and protection of mobile workers with regard to their statutory pension benefits in the context of supplementary pension insurance benefits. as early as 1992, the council called on the member states to promote changes in the conditions for acquiring supplementary pension rights in order to avoid obstacles to the mobility of employed workers. the term "employee mobility barrier" is a fairly general one, but what it basically means is that the moment you're on the move, you lose something. the current systems cause that at the moment of change, the migrant worker is affected, at times more, at times less, sometimes almost imperceptibly, but never in the same position, in the same advantageous position as he would be without his decision to change and to be on the move. directive 98/49/ec was the first step towards this objective. however, it was clear that this directive still did not address issues that, according to expert groups, have particularly adverse effects on mobility, namely the acquisition and protection of deferred claims and the transferability of those claims. the proposals for a directive on the transferability of supplementary pension rights were therefore not a mere whim and were put forward after a long period of thorough negotiation and consultation. and it was for a good reason. while initially the social partners were invited to submit proposals, reflecting their crucial role in the provision of supplementary pension cover, it soon became clear that the only way forward was through an appropriate legislative approach, taking full account of the views of the social partners and key stakeholders. such a proportionate approach, which recognises not only the great diversity and sometimes rapid evolution of supplementary pension schemes, but also the voluntary nature of such schemes, has been and remains the right solution to such a complex and sensitive issue. it explains why the commission has chosen, with caution, not to establish a harmonisation process but to establish minimum requirements. in addition, one of our biggest challenges is to achieve the right balance between reducing the barriers to mobility while maintaining a stable and sustainable environment for the development of reinsurance. given the positive progress, but also the challenges we have had to address in developing this directive, it is somewhat disappointing that at this point not all member states in the council were able to reach agreement or compromise on elements of this important directive. it is encouraging, however, that the report under discussion today agrees in principle and substantially with the commission's view in many areas, which i see as a real opportunity to reach agreement with the council in the near future. ladies and gentlemen, although the last council meeting did not reach a conclusion, nevertheless, i think that every participant can confirm that there was an extremely strong will to achieve a result and that this will still exists in the council and is the basis for further action. in the spirit of this cooperation, i would like to highlight two areas where i believe the differences between the european parliament and the council are the greatest and where negotiations will be needed in order to reach consensus in the future. the first is the essential element of granting supplementary pension rights and what the minimum conditions should be. i take note with interest of the proposed amendments and the decision to focus legislative efforts on workers over the age of 25. there is a great deal of empirical evidence that the mobility of this group is significantly lower than that of younger people, so your amendment has a clear logic. you are aware that the exclusion of entitlements for persons over 25 years of age is unlikely to find favourable reception in the council and that this may therefore be one of the areas where negotiation and compromise is needed. but your approach to minimizing obstacles is to be appreciated and we believe it is certainly the right direction to go. the second issue likely to be debated between the european parliament and the council is the scope of the directive. as regards the existing rights arising and the date by which the directive should be transposed into national law, the commission fully supports the substance of the proposed amendments in article 2 and considers them to be proportionate and meaningful. the commission is firmly committed to minimising any limitation on the scope and thus the effectiveness of the directive, and parliament supports this. the recent technical amendment to your report with regard to article 5 is a reasonable clarification which should avoid any misunderstanding as to how deferred claims are to be protected. article 5 is a key part of this directive and is essential for the objective of reducing obstacles to the mobility of workers. let me repeat to members of parliament that there is no proposal in this directive to prescribe any method of protecting these rights, we want to ensure that mobile workers and their deferred pension rights are treated fairly. given the way the labour market is developing, given the way the active working hours are gradually being extended, i think that when we talk about mobile workers we are talking about all workers in principle, because it is absolutely certain that the vast majority of workers will change their employer once or more in the course of their working career, the vast majority of workers will be able to benefit from the protection that this proposed directive can provide. as regards the transposition of the directive into national law, we have always been of the opinion, as you are, that this directive should be transposed as quickly as possible. at the same time, however, we recognise that the changes required by the directive should not interfere with the provision of supplementary pension insurance in the european union. finally, i would also like to warmly welcome the proposals contained in article 10, which i wholeheartedly support in their substance. the omission of article 6, which concerns transferability, is regrettable in my view. however, the amendments to article 10 contained in the report send a clear signal that this complex and technical issue will not be abandoned, but merely postponed, while the commission, together with parliament, the council and the social partners, explores ways to effectively and sustainably remove the remaining obstacles to mobility within the supplementary pension scheme. ladies and gentlemen, the work on this directive has been extremely complex, and i think that it has been both politically and intellectually difficult, as well as in terms of the overall policy concept. the proposal for a directive fits perfectly into the framework of the response to demographic change, since it is clear that complementary systems will play a more important role than in the past in this response. this directive is fundamentally in line with the concept of flexsecurity, because in a way it is a typical example of increased mobility accompanied by adequate social protection, and i think that this directive fits in generally with the overall concept of european social policy, that is to say that at no time, in no place in the european union, should a worker be placed at a disadvantage a priori. ladies and gentlemen, i thank you again for the work that parliament has done in the debate on this directive.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the issue of the portability of occupational pensions has been on the european agenda for over 20 years. the commissioner has just explained what developments have also been recorded in the meantime with regard to migrant workers. following the failure of an initiative under the so-called social partnership procedure in 2002/2003, the european commission presented a draft of a so-called portability directive in october 2005. the commission proposal covers four key areas: firstly, the taking of occupational pension rights in the form of a capital sum when changing employers, i.e. portability in the narrow sense; secondly, the establishment of the maturity periods of occupational pension schemes; thirdly, the fair treatment of an occupational pension scheme when an employee leaves a company; and fourthly, information requirements to ensure that employees are aware of their pension schemes and can better plan their pension scheme. it also concerns - commissioner špidla has raised it - the question of flexicurity. the directive covers an area of labour and social law and this is important to emphasise therefore unanimity is required. this is one of the reasons why the negotiations were very difficult from the outset. this was not surprising, even with such a highly complex subject. in addition, the european union is not just a uniform body, but a very diverse one, with almost every member state having its own occupational pension system, which is not generally compatible with the others. the central area of the directive, the transfer of company pension capital to a new employer, was considered by many member states to be highly problematic. the netherlands rejected this possibility from the outset. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the need for unanimity would have made it pointless to continue negotiations on this point. the german presidency then focused on the specification of fair and equitable treatment, the rules on the obligation to provide information and the scope of the directive in terms of subject matter and time. after intensive discussions and a large number of bilateral contacts at technical level, agreement was reached on all points. in the end, however, the council of ministers did not reach the necessary unanimity, which i very much regret. one member state in particular was politically bound by negative decisions of parliament and the cabinet. in view of these fundamental political reservations about the formulation of the original proposal, it is likely that it will continue to be very difficult to achieve the unanimity required for the directive. we want to promote the mobility of workers on the basis of the directive. at the same time, we must also strengthen their pension insurance. we need not only a majority decision by the european parliament, but also the agreement of the 27 member states. perhaps we can achieve more if the first step is less ambitious. it takes time for the necessary confidence to grow and for countries without occupational pensions to introduce them and for countries with strong systems not to feel that they are being out-performed. i think that the maximum requirements are counterproductive in this context. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. as with all decisions in this european union, agreement will only be achieved if there is the political will to reach agreement on all sides.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if you are like me, the rapporteur for the committee on women's rights and gender equality and a member of the ppe-de group, you often find yourself on the high seas, in the hands of god. that's what happened to me with my draft opinion: in the adopted version, i no longer recognize my baby. what i had advocated at the beginning of the work on this very controversial proposal for a directive has either disappeared because it was rejected by a majority of the women's rights committee that was present, or it was not accepted by the committee responsible for the subject. i therefore regret that i have not been able to find any trace of the most important proposal of the committee on women's rights, which insisted on the implementation of the directive in accordance with the directives on equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men. as regards the substance, the most heated discussions began after the adoption of my opinion, which was adopted a year ago and was aimed primarily at guaranteeing the possibility of maintaining their pension rights, or even of continuing to contribute to employees changing jobs, or interrupting or ceasing a professional activity, either for family reasons or to better reconcile work and family life. i shall not go into the details of the disputes which are still going on at the moment, including those concerning employers who offer supplementary pensions in order to retain their employees, whereas this directive is part of a policy to promote worker mobility. i am aware that it will not be easy to reconcile these two perspectives, but i would like to say that the major objective, namely the guarantee of acquired rights under acceptable conditions which do not jeopardise the financial viability of the schemes or the offer of supplementary pension schemes by employers, must be achieved for the benefit of employees who change employers inside or outside a member state, while respecting subsidiarity and flexibility.
in writing. while juvenile delinquency is a major problem in all member states, it would be catastrophic if the ep were to send the wrong signal. two themes of the report are crucial: 1) the dejudiciarisation and deinstitutionalisation of juvenile justice. this system has been in place in one member state since 1991 and youth magistrates recently demonstrated outside their courthouse because it constitutes 'non-assistance to persons in danger'. the country's children's ombudsman commented: "the authorities are appealing to the youth for helplessness, impunity and a signal of abandonment". fortunately, the court did not grant the writ of habeas corpus. (2) the the issue of 'sanctions' has once again become a major theme in european political discourse. the eesc opinion on juvenile delinquency also emphasised the pillars of an effective response to juvenile delinquency: prevention, judicial and extrajudicial measures, rehabilitation, integration and social reintegration. i voted for this report because our amendment, which goes in the same direction, was approved. the question must be asked whether it is the european parliament's job to give the member states guidance on the organisation of their criminal justice systems. the creation of a new european observatory on juvenile delinquency is not necessary. modern means of communication make it easy for national observatories to network.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have created a single european market for electricity and gas, which suffers from one thing above all: the oligopolies e.on, rwe, edf, which are present on this market. we have seen in germany and france the merger between corporations and political elites who did not play fair from the start, but closed their markets and bought up the other companies: monopole en france, monopoly en dehors de la france. what can be done to overcome this situation and to pass on the positive effects of the single market to consumers? we need to strengthen the regulatory authorities, we need to separate the high-voltage and gas grids from the electricity producers and gas companies, and we also need programmes such as the gas and electricity release programmes, which in over-dominated markets give the regulatory or competition authorities the opportunity to sell electricity and gas to the other competitors. this is the line which we have pushed through with a large majority in the committee on industry. i hope my colleagues will not be responding at the last minute to the many e-mails from mr reul coming directly from rwe headquarters . it was only the introduction of a national regulatory authority against the will of the german energy companies that led to the fall in tariffs in the german electricity networks. this was billions which had not yet gone into the pockets of consumers!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we in the green group are trying to evaluate liberalisation on the basis of the most objective and ideologically neutral criteria possible. what's in it for the consumer? what are the effects on working conditions? what are the environmental consequences? my colleagues eva lichtenberger and pierre jonckheer have already outlined the economic and social implications. but what we decide here is also nonsense in terms of environmental policy! at 8:00 a.m. a yellow mail car comes, at 9:00 a.m. a blue one comes, at 10:00 a.m. a red one comes, and at 11:00 a.m. a black one comes. all four are underutilized, which means that in a time when we are all talking about climate action, we are in the process of completely disrupting the logistics of the postal service and creating unnecessary traffic. it is this blind liberalising mania of the conservatives, liberals and parts of the social democrats that is endangering the important project of europe among the citizens!
mr president, i have had to come to the conclusion that the war against the all-out liberalization of postal services can no longer be won, either in the council or here. i therefore resigned myself to fighting for consideration of the very special situation of the postal service in my small country. our market is a very attractive target and is therefore particularly coveted because its customers account for 70% of the volume of mail with, moreover, one of the highest population densities, and a number of 455 pieces of letters or parcels handled per person per year, one of the highest volumes in europe. in addition, the cost of labour is more than twice as high as that of competitors, for historical reasons which have nothing to do with the possible inefficiency of the postal service. econometric models show that if full liberalization were to take place, the market share served by our post office would be reduced to a tiny fraction of 4%, resulting in a surplus of 940 jobs out of the 1 500 postal jobs, most of which are untouchable due to the protected status of the civil servant. the tariffs should be increased fivefold to finance the costs of 100% national coverage and to maintain the frequency of five weekly distribution, if financed by subsidies from the state budget. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity to the member states. it is therefore also justified to extend the deadline for liberalisation in my country until 2013. that is why i ask you to vote for amendment no 62 by my group, which will reduce the negative impact of full liberalization in my country, at least for a while.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to this report for just a minute, because the procedure is very complicated. for the sake of clarity, i would point out to all those who want to avoid any increase in the minimum rates on beer and spirits that they must vote against all the amendments adopted in committee except one, adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs by a small, haphazard majority of 21 to 19. i would ask you, however, whatever the outcome of the vote, to reject my whole report and thus maintain the status quo on excise duties on alcohol, pending the commission's report, since mr kovács wants to make proposals on the whole excise policy at the end of the year. i may still remind you that winston churchill said, "there is no such thing as a good text". (applause) i'll add to that that there's nothing worse than unnecessarily raising taxes at the wrong time. so please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted against the liberalisation of the gas and electricity sectors because i do not believe that the separation of transport ownership is the most effective way of promoting investment in these infrastructures. as the report acknowledges, "this model may not address all issues, such as interconnections or congestion points". the fact is that the electricity and gas markets require considerable investment. the eu cannot guarantee its security of supply by eliminating the major players in the market. the strange fact remains that the european countries which have liberalized the most also have the highest prices for consumers.
mr president, please tell the french cabinet that these are not recitals but paragraphs.
in writing. i abstained from voting on the resolution on the future igc because i believe that the last european summit failed in its objective of reviving europe. we shall at best have a minimalist treaty, allowing for some progress, but leaving the united kingdom with new possibilities for opt-out! this is particularly true of the charter of fundamental rights. how could the court of justice of the european communities apply this charter, when it will not be valid in britain?
in writing. the abolition of the last monopoly of the postal service was not necessary to guarantee an internal market for consumers. the commission has drawn up such proposals out of pure ideology, pushed by countries such as the uk, the netherlands and the scandinavian countries, i.e. the champions of the all-purpose market. it is no coincidence that these same countries are opposed to a more political integration of europe. even in the united states, us-postal, for obvious reasons of job protection, maintains final distribution in the public system. even if the european parliament has given a respite to a few countries, including my own, this liberalization will not serve the ordinary citizen.
madam president, i have the impression that we are witnessing a debate of dupes: dupes to our hosts, who are facing an empty house; dupes to the right, where there is talk of a loss of independence of the ecb, while the european central bank is and will remain independent. france had changed its constitution to allow this independence. to change the statute of the ecb would require the agreement of 27 governments and 28 parliaments, including our own. mission accomplished! moreover, the ecb is doing a rather good job, the euro is the second international reserve currency, the euro has appreciated since 2000 by some 25% against the dollar. it's a lower cost for our purchases of raw materials, oil and gas. inflation is lower in the euro area than in the united states or britain. if i have one complaint against the ecb, it is that it is too fixated on fighting inflation. inflation is a pernicious evil, especially for the economically weak, but as inflationary pressures are currently limited, the bank could provide more support for the union's economic policy. the purchasing power of many europeans has shrunk, but the ecb is still advocating wage moderation. i hope mr trichet will also appeal to president sarkozy for moderation, who is renouncing france's commitments in favour of tax gifts to the rich. the last trick: what good is a european charter of fundamental rights if it is not applied throughout the union? how could the european court of justice apply the charter when it does not apply in the united kingdom? the last question is of course addressed to the great european of my country, jean-claude juncker.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, since the commission published its interim report in february, we have had some very productive discussions on the single market review. now the work moves into top gear, with the commission expecting to publish to its conclusions in november. i would like to thank the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, particularly the rapporteur jacques toubon, for assembling an impressive package of recommendations and proposals. i would like to thank members of committee on economic and monetary affairs for their clear and constructive contribution to the report. the commission is also grateful to the political groups, which have been closely engaged, and produced policy papers of high quality. as with all good reports, i also note that on some issues there are differences of opinion or emphasis. let us briefly consider what is at stake. the single market is home to 500 million citizens and over 20 million businesses. since its inception in 1992 the single market has raised europe’s output by over 2% and created nearly three million new jobs. europe’s prosperity and its external influence are great achievements. to sustain these we must keep moving the single market forward. it would be a mistake to take any of this for granted. we must maintain europe’s competitive edge for europe’s businesses and especially for its citizens. we cannot sustain a europe which provides high-quality public services in health, education and social care without an economy which is fundamentally sound. so at this point let me spell out our central theme: the need for all of us – the commission, parliament and the member states – to show leadership and courage in our reforms. the review of the single market is an essential part of the efforts of this commission to deliver a europe of tangible results and deliver its ‘citizens’ agenda’. big challenges remain in the single market. let me give some examples. on postal services we are moving towards a final package for full market opening. in the field of energy policy, commissioner piebalgs will shortly present proposals to build a single european energy market. commissioner kuneva is leading a wide-ranging review of europe’s consumer protection laws. we are working with you and the member states to create a framework for a european patent. piece by piece each single market reform matters, but taken in the round their importance is even greater. the single market of today – this vast, dynamic, open market – is the product of all these difficult reforms, all these difficult decisions we have made. in short, the continued success of the single market – its potential to improve the living standards and social conditions of all europe’s citizens – requires us to show leadership and courage not just in setting a vision of the future, but in making the very real, and often difficult, policy choices facing us today. but let me return to the review itself and pick out a few highlights: first, on how we work – how we deliver single market policy – and, second, on our shared policy priorities. in terms of how we work, we all know – and your draft report makes this clear – that we must strengthen partnership and ownership. so parliament’s call for stronger networks of cooperation is music to my ears. the single market is a joint undertaking and we must work together to deliver it, always conscious of the needs of citizens. this means building on successful projects such as solvit and offering citizens better assistance in solving the cross-border problems that they encounter. it also means pressing ahead with new tools such as the internal market information system to strengthen cooperation between the member states. i firmly believe – as you do – that close partnerships will be the key to our success. let me welcome an interesting suggestion in your report – the idea of an ‘internal market test’ for all new measures. this is an element that is strongly present in our ‘better regulation’ mechanisms, the importance of which cannot but be underlined. if we find that new proposals will actually hinder the flow of people, goods, services and capital – and thereby jeopardise the single market – then we must acknowledge this and ask whether we need to change course, before anyone gets hurt! now let me move on to our shared policy priorities for the single market. in its interim report to the spring european council, the commission highlighted a number of directions for the future single market. let me choose examples among the areas which i know best. your report rightly points to retail financial services as an area where the single market can go further. i believe europe can help citizens to get a better deal across the board: in mortgages, insurance, payment cards, bank accounts and elsewhere. on 19 september, the commission will host a hearing in brussels to find out more about the priorities of all stakeholders. i invite all of you who are interested to attend. let me also introduce a new issue to the debate, and one which should feature in the single market review, which is e-government. all member states are delivering more services electronically, reducing costs and making them easier for citizens to access. but while this creates opportunities, there are challenges we need to confront. let me give a couple of examples. firstly, on e-procurement. we must ensure that national authorities, in adopting technologies and security standards, do not create purely national e-procurement markets. similarly, in preparing for the implementation of the services directive, member states must have common systems so as to be able to exchange information securely. a final word on the international dimension, which, i was delighted to see, is prominent in your report. this commission is committed to maximising europe’s global influence and building strong ties. so, as well as broadening and deepening our dialogues with the united states and japan, we are also holding summits with china, india, russia and brazil. these global dialogues allow us to learn more about our partners, to advocate our values and standards and to resolve issues of bilateral interest and create new commercial opportunities for europe’s firms. in short, the external dimension is a vital part of our internal market policy. so to sum up, i am in the happy position of agreeing with you on the priorities for the single market review – both on how we deliver the single market, and on the policy areas that will most benefit citizens. and of course i would be delighted to return here once we have adopted the single market review to present our conclusions and discuss with you the way forward.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist group has just adopted an important contribution on the relaunch of the internal market. i shall be happy to present a copy to commissioner mccreevy later. we consider the internal market and the euro to be the union's greatest economic achievement, but unlike the commissioner, we are not market fetishists. the market represents the natural place of exchange of human beings since mankind has moved beyond the stage of gathering. the market is useful, it even has its virtues, but it does not represent a social project in itself. the market economy is, provided that we do not end up with a society in which everything is for sale, in which human needs such as education, culture, social protection and health depend solely on the balance of forces of the market. we are in favour of a social market economy in which the necessary competition is subject to rules, in which the consumer is protected and in which efficient public services compensate for market failures. in the united states, the health sector accounts for over 15% of gdp, twice the european average, but 44 million american workers have no health insurance. in order to avoid a two-tiered medicine in europe, we want a european framework for health services. we ask the commission to finally meet the request of the european councils of nice, laeken and barcelona and to propose a community framework enabling national, regional and local authorities to provide efficient public services with legal certainty. we ask the commission to work towards a high level of social protection within the internal market. any legislation aimed at perfecting the single market must be accompanied by an impact study on employment in the sector concerned. we want safeguard clauses, such as the monti clause, which respects the right to strike and collective agreements. we believe that the preservation of a high level of social protection must be reflected in ambitious guidelines on the regulation of working time or temporary work. social protection is not incompatible with economic efficiency. the countries which have organised social dialogue the best, such as the scandinavian countries, germany, the netherlands and a few others, are the economic champions of the european union. in short, socialists are for competition which stimulates, cooperation which strengthens and solidarity which unites. i have just quoted jacques delors. i leave it to my excellent colleague, mrs evelyne gebhardt, to comment on the report by our colleague mr jacques toubon, which i think i can say is generally positive. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. i voted for the report by my colleague jacques toubon on the review of the single market and i support the rapporteur's positive approach to one of the most important pillars of the european union. the four freedoms of the single market - the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital - must be further encouraged and developed to enable everyone to enjoy the full benefits of the single market. as regards the free movement of services, i very much regret that the country of origin principle, already severely mutilated in the services directive, has not been put more prominently as vital to the achievement of a genuine single market and to job creation. i also consider that respect for the country of origin principle for vat on mail order and internet sales is the only viable basis for ensuring a coherent and transparent tax framework to allow the free movement of goods. in my view, tax competition is in no way an obstacle to the completion of the single market, but on the contrary, it encourages economic operators to assert their freedoms of free movement within the single market.
mr president, the presentation of the foglietta report gave rise to comments which might suggest that all the members of the epp-ed group are downplaying the serious problem of alcoholism. i cannot approve of the lightness with which the problems of addiction are masked by reverence for the producers of alcoholic beverages and their lobbyists. the protection of young people deserves better, as does the treatment of alcoholism as a serious disease affecting those around the person concerned. in the end, this own-initiative report will not change the real situation.
in writing. we all want to combat the dangerous and harmful use of alcohol, especially among young people, whose latest fashionable excess is what the germans call koma-saufen, a term well understood in my country. i recognise the european union's competence in dealing with public health problems and its role in promoting exchanges of information and best practice between member states. sadly, the resolution focuses on the harmful effects of alcohol rather than on the benefits of moderate drinking. indeed, it is scientifically proven that moderate consumption of wine is a preventive against cardiovascular disease, cancer and dementia. but this useful information is prohibited on the label by european regulations. why warn women before and during pregnancy and ignore the effect of alcoholism on men who are procreating? why advocate higher taxes on alcoholic beverages when it is clear that alcoholism is worst in countries with very high taxes? i would like to stress that there is no question of setting a blood alcohol level for all car drivers at community level. a zero tolerance policy for drunk and undrunk drivers would be more effective in combating the increase in road fatalities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, the cost of the turbulence on the financial markets in mid-august has not yet been paid. the commission - as we have just heard - expects a negative impact on growth. the actual losses incurred by banks and other financial actors will be shown at the closing of the annual balance sheets. according to commissioner almunia, there is still a lack of information on the real and overall exposure of all actors. that those who take too much risk and pay the bill is a salutary principle, but behind the speculative activism of the financial world, we find the victims: families trapped in mortgages based on the promise of unlimited growth in the housing market or small savers oriented towards risks undervalued by all those who live on juicy commissions, including the rating agencies. the socialist group has been calling for years for increased supervision of hedge funds and all those special instruments which are endlessly multiplied by the markets. as carlo ciampi points out, the rapid development of derivatives is out of control. even the heads of the big banks no longer understand these non-transparent instruments. real risks, for example, real estate loans, are infinitely scaled up, inserted repeatedly into the products of investment funds and stock exchange instruments, with the result that no one can locate the initial risk anymore. the market expects central banks to come to the rescue of speculators. the ecb was in fact acting as a lender of last resort. one may therefore ask why the ecb had to inject more capital than the federal reserve into a market which had suddenly become illiquid, while the subprime crisis was originating in the united states. were the european banks more gullible? have the supervisory authorities failed in their task? the socialist group demands that the commission learn from a financial market which has become too opaque and therefore extremely dangerous for the real economy. (applause) i would like to thank
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs valenciano on this report which combines courage and ambition and i support all her proposals. the report reaffirms the universality of human rights and anchors them as fundamental principles in the european union's relations with third countries. but if it is important to affirm and reaffirm the universality of human rights today, it is equally important, and it is time, to free ourselves from another dogma of international politics: this is the illusion with which we too often tend to console ourselves, namely that economic development will bring about democratization and the safeguarding of human rights. but recent decades have shown a different picture. the two-speed evolution is indeed evident: on the one hand, we are witnessing today a rapid globalization of the economy, and on the other hand, the democratization drive that gave birth to democracies in europe, latin america and east asia after the end of the cold war seems to be waning. the fact is that economic growth and authoritarianism are all too often coexisting in the world. on the contrary, economic growth seems to give these regimes legitimacy and help to stabilise their power. today we are rightly focusing our interest and concern on the human rights situation in the major emerging countries such as china and russia. but let us not be deceived: many of the countries that must be counted among the most developed in the world - some of which are our economic allies - do not respect the fundamental rights of their citizens. i am thinking in particular of singapore, a country with a prosperous and modern economy and whose people enjoy all the advantages of a developed country, except for political freedoms and, more particularly, freedom of expression and assembly. madam president, if further proof were needed, it was provided in a most unmistakable way by the behaviour of the singaporean authorities towards a delegation of parliamentarians from my group in april this year, in which i was a member. the local authorities prevented us from speaking at a meeting with members of the singapore liberal party under threat of arrest. this experience, however troubling it may have been, was also very revealing and it confirmed to me once again that the safeguarding of human rights does not necessarily go hand in hand with economic development and that the european union, in this case, cannot be satisfied with an economic approach to the countries concerned. on the contrary, the european union must continue to play its role as a defender of human rights and to remind foreign leaders constantly that human rights are for all men and all over the world.
in writing. i could not vote for the patrie report because of the wording of paragraph 2, which calls for the revision of directive 2000/31/ec on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce. i think that the existing directive, which provides, among other things, that the vat in force is that of the country of origin of the company, works very well in practice. why should this excellent directive be changed to introduce a system where the consumer has to pay vat for these services in the country of destination? this would lead to total disruption for all the actors involved, both for the tax administrations, which would have to manage the vat amounts of companies established in 27 different countries, and for the companies concerned, which would have to apply up to 27 different vat regimes. such a situation would be unacceptable and would constitute an obstacle to the free movement of goods, and thus a virtually insurmountable obstacle to the single market for electronic services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs thomsen on this very good and comprehensive report. the tradition of this house of promoting renewable energies over the council and the commission is maintained by this report, which hopefully will find a large majority. i would like to make a brief comment on the main subject which will be discussed in the coming weeks when the commission presents its draft directive. the central issue is investment security. we need investment to get to that 20%. we must illustrate when and where the investments of the last six or eight years have been successful. there are two systems in europe: the guaranteed entry price system and the green certificate system. 90% of all renewable energy other than large-scale hydropower has been achieved under the guaranteed feed-in price system. they have been achieved at a lower cost than under the green certificate system and, very importantly, they have allowed new players to enter the electricity market. all these figures are from the last commission report of december 2006. what i'm hearing now is a little disturbing. there is information that says that there will probably be a majority in the commission to abolish this good system and to make a trading system with green certificates. i can only strongly advise you, commissioner, to abandon this strategy, which would be the sole and exclusive fault of the big dominant energy companies e.on, rwe, edf and others, because it will create uncertainty for investment and will deter new players from investing in the future. they will be judged on the basis of whether investments have been made locally, and on the basis of a comprehensive guarantee of security, rather than a random mechanism such as green certificates.
member of the commission. mr president, i am happy to be here tonight to take a very important step with not only your approval but your engagement in proposing and establishing a european institute of technology (eit). as you all know, much progress has been made over the last month on this important proposal as a result of joint efforts. i would like in particular to thank mr paasilinna, the rapporteur on this issue; the chairwoman of the committee on industry, research and energy, ms niebler; ms hennicot-schoepges from the committee on culture and education; and also mr böge from the committee on budgets, for their relentless efforts and very valuable contributions. without these contributions we would never have achieved our current status and possible outcome. the report adopted by the industry committee and the text of the general approach adopted by the council clearly go in the same direction. i think this is very important. it undoubtedly makes it easier to move towards a compromise text. the eit will provide an environment whereby partners from business, research and academia who are excellent in their respective fields can work together and spur their innovation potential. we have agreed that the eit should develop gradually. two to three knowledge and innovation communities (kics) will be set up in a so-called start-up phase. further kics will then be developed in the second phase, subject to the evaluation of the eit and kics’ activities. long-term strategic activities or policy guidance will be provided by parliament and the council through the adoption of a strategic innovation agenda. your parliament report contains useful amendments that clearly enrich the proposal and i thank you for them. by way of example, i welcome the proposal to report to the european parliament and the council on the selection process for board members, to ensure that this is done transparently. there is also a proposal to amend the name of the eit to the ‘european institute of innovation and technology’ but to keep its well-established brand ‘eit’. i also welcome those amendments aimed at streamlining the eit’s financial management in clarifying that the procedure laid down in point 47 of the interinstitutional agreement applies to this setting-up. the commission can also support very many of your amendments, either as drafted or in spirit, where we need to adapt the wording. however, we have concerns with some of your amendments suggested by the industry committee. i will focus on four main issues. firstly, the education aspects. we need to be careful to avoid watering down the education dimension of the eit, which is a cornerstone and one of the most innovative features of the proposal. we share parliament’s views that the mobility of researchers and the mobility of students will be instrumental and should therefore be highlighted. but i strongly believe that the wording on degrees and diplomas should remain untouched. second, the presentation of the eit has been established on a pilot-phase basis. i think we all agree that the eit should develop progressively and be subject to continuous evaluation. however, there should be no doubt as to the long-term vision and commitment of the european union regarding this initiative. uncertainty about this point – and especially at the beginning – will threaten the viability of the project altogether. third, the participation of third countries: we fully agree with the principle of facilitating third countries’ participation in the eit – this is one of the very important conditions. however, it has to come along with the principle of preference for eu member states. the eit is and should remain a european-driven initiative. fourth, the participation of the eit and kics in the community programmes: there should not be a shadow of doubt on this. the eit itself will not seek to participate in community programmes, nor will its administrative costs be funded by them. the kics, on the other hand, will be entitled to bid for funds but in no way benefit from privileged access – no preferential treatment. to make this crystal clear, i believe that the right approach would be for the institutions to agree on a political declaration to this effect to be annexed to the proposal. the financing of the eit is now the key outstanding issue. you know that last week the commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the multiannual financial framework to accommodate the needs of both galileo and the eit. i hope that this will provide a solid basis for discussions and an agreement by the budgetary authority before the end of this year. this was requested by the european council in june. i am looking forward to the discussion.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. mr president, it is a pity that the commission has launched the european institute of technology project without securing funding from the outset. the committee on culture and education approved the proposal after clarifying certain points, such as the award of qualifications, which will remain the responsibility of the member states and the partner higher education institutions. these qualifications will bear the eit label as a european mark of excellence, but the training title will aim to take account of the diversity of the higher education landscape in the european union. the eit must also make a positive contribution to student mobility and, in this respect, the problem of the transferability of grants has yet to be solved. i ask my colleagues to vote in favour of amendment no 36 to encourage student mobility. did we know that only 3% of european university students are mobile? the eit is a fascinating future project for cooperation, innovation and research and the private sector will help to involve higher education institutions in it: a real future challenge for competitiveness in europe! i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr paasilinna, and i thank the commission and the german presidency, which have contributed greatly to the advancement of the text.
mr president, the european institute of technology has rightly said that research is central to economic progress. research is supported by scientists trained at top universities. universities must be able to rely on large and predictable public and private funds. the union is lagging behind in all these areas. our research budget is, on average, well below the public and, above all, private research budgets of japan and the united states. the union - population 500 million - employs 1.2 million scientists. america - with a population of 300 million - has 1.3 million. on average in europe, public and private higher education instruments account for 1.3% of gdp, compared with 3.3% in the united states. europe spends less than €10,000 per student, the united states more than €35,000. not everything is perfect overseas. of the 2,500 universities, 100 are truly excellent and share €32 billion in research funding annually. this figure, 32 billion, is to be contrasted with the meagre appropriations proposed for the eit. if our governments do not spend more money on research, the eit and other ambitions will be forgotten. the united states produces about 40,000 doctors a year. a third comes from the rest of the world. in the physical and life sciences, the share of non-americans is over 50%. why is that? because america continues to believe in scientific progress. where europeans see risks first and fearfully take refuge behind the precautionary principle, americans see new opportunities. this applies to biotechnology, nanotechnology and even the fight against climate change: while europe is focusing on repentance, the americans are advocating technological and scientific progress. fear of the future, fear of progress are at the root of europe's deficits. without a change in mentality, mr president, the eti will not change anything.
in writing. would you have thought that after decades of blaming the common agricultural policy for all the evils, for being too expensive and for producing lakes of milk and mountains of cereals that cannot be sold on the market, we would now discover that we must stop reducing our production potential in these areas? i welcome the commissioner's quick reaction to the price increases, which are finally paying off for our farmers: to end setaside to encourage our farmers to produce more cereals to reduce the tension on the market. it should also act quickly to increase milk quotas and remove surcharges in the event of national overruns. i hope that this will also serve as a lesson to the commission, which also wants to reduce the potential for wine production by 200 000 hectares, without regard for the possibility for european wine growers to export to emerging markets such as china and india.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report on political priorities in the fight against illegal immigration of third-country nationals and i would like to stress that the management of migration flows to europe, especially from third countries, is one of the greatest challenges for european policy. in the 21st century, the existence of human trafficking is totally unacceptable and we must find a solution to try to eradicate this scourge and the personal tragedies that unfortunately accompany it. to this end, it is essential to address the problem of illegal immigration at european level, as any opening up to illegal immigration in one member state puts pressure on all the other member states. the launching of a policy on legal immigration must go hand in hand with the fight against illegal immigration, as the two are closely linked. what is missing from this report are concrete proposals to develop a solution to stop mass illegal immigration and discourage smugglers. in italy, for example, the introduction of quotas for economic immigration has not reduced illegal immigration to italian territory. on the contrary, the announcement of annual quotas has caused an increase in the number of illegal immigrants who are willing to risk their lives to enter the territory of the european union.
in writing. i voted for the kauppi report because it formally calls on the european commission to develop the gender analysis and the integrated approach to gender equality in relation to the impact of pension reforms on women's lives in the european union, with a view to individualising pension rights and social security and taxation systems. having been the rapporteur in 1997 on the situation of caring spouses in smes and in agriculture, i would like to stress that after ten years we are still waiting for the european commission's proposals to strengthen the 1986 directive and to create a european framework for the status of caring spouses, those tens of millions of invisible workers who do not appear in any statistics, who often have no social cover against sickness, disability and old age, especially in the event of divorce. i hope that the commission will finally do its homework in this area and follow up this resolution in practice.
mr president, the intergovernmental conference probably met at the bottom of the channel tunnel to hide from public opinion. the result, dear margot wallström, is incommunicado to the average citizen. more than 300 amendments in 150 pages have amended the treaty on the union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. as a bonus, there will be 53 statements and 12 protocols. after the symbols of the union, such as the flag or the anthem, other political achievements will be overlooked. the social dialogue will no longer be a horizontal obligation for the union. the social partners are asked to deal only with social policy, not economic policy. the protocol on services of general interest indirectly enshrines the primacy of competition law over all services of a more or less commercial nature provided to citizens by municipalities or regions. the night-watchman state will be able to decide only on non-economic services of general interest. we are being lied to about the binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights. protocol 7 says, and i quote, 'for the avoidance of doubt, nothing in title iv of the charter creates enforceable rights applicable to poland and the united kingdom'. clearly, the european court of justice will not be able to apply the charter. i am going to pass on all the opt-outs which dedicate europe to two-speed for the euro zone, the schengen protocol or the rules of justice and home affairs. article 24 is a sign of a totalitarian state, allowing the council alone to lay down rules for the protection of the personal data of our fellow citizens and to allow them to move freely to america. neither parliament nor the court of justice will be able to defend fundamental freedoms. george orwell's big brother is not far away! finally, we are threatened with the inclusion of a permanent veto right of the states derived from the ioannina compromise. this is unacceptable, mr president. i am personally beginning to rediscover some of the virtues of the treaty of nice.
madam president, commissioner, it is a pity that the agricultural community was not involved in this debate, it would have been very interesting, at the dawn of a reform of the cap, to have the voice of agriculture too. the aim is to ensure the sustainability of european agriculture, to ensure that sufficient quantities of high-quality food are produced, but also to promote research and protect data. the greatest challenge, of course, is to protect human health and to prevent the persistence of toxic substances in water and the environment. but we also have to be concerned about the farming population, who need to be protected better, because they are the ones who are in direct contact with these products and, many times, the advice they are given is given to them by the pesticide dealers, while the latter will not tell them that scientists are beginning to ask questions, between the link between exposure to pesticides and the regular progression of certain diseases, such as parkinson's, alzheimer's, prostate cancer, brain tumours and congenital malformations, and the effect of pesticides. it will therefore be necessary to establish strict rules for admission to the market. we must promote research through data protection, and we must also promote research programmes on biological control; this is a useful example for innovation. and we should have affordable prices for these products for farmers. finally, commissioner, in order to protect bees, the long-term tests provided for in directive 91/414 have not been carried out. it is not enough to have texts, they must also be applied and enforced. i note that the marketing is the most important regulation, but, madam president, i think we have had a passionate debate in which the lobbying of industry has at times been of a rare indecency.
member of the commission. madam president, road transport, like other sectors of the economy, must contribute to the effort to cut carbon dioxide emissions in order to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol and our future commitments for 2020 and beyond. road transport is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union. passenger cars alone are responsible for 12% of the total emissions of the european union. it is worth noting that while overall emissions in the european union of 27 member states fell by almost 8% between 1990 and 2005, emissions from road transport increased by 25% over the same period. i would remind you that since 1995 the commission has set the target of 120 grams, so the car industry knew about it, and i would also remind you that there was a voluntary agreement to achieve a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions to 140 grams per kilometre in 2008. so when the commission realised that this target would not be met by the car industry and when the car industry itself admitted it, then of course last february the european commission completed the review of the community strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from new cars with legislation which is mandatory, and is based on an integrated approach which will achieve the european target of reducing - from new cars - to 120 grams in 2012. addressing the problem of carbon dioxide emissions from cars is also expected to contribute to the objective of enhancing the european union's energy security by reducing our dependence on imported fossil fuels. this will of course also lead to a reduction in the cost of fuel purchases by consumers. madam president, i am pleased to note that your report welcomes our initiative to propose a legislative framework for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from cars, and i thank the rapporteur, mr davies, for his efforts, and mrs harms and mr bulfon from the committee on industry and the committee on the internal market respectively, for their relevant proposals. the report sets ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide and stresses that more and longer-term progress will be needed. the challenge now is to translate this political support into practical action. the draft report proposes several important areas of work, two of which i should like to comment on. firstly, your report points out the legitimate need for the automobile industry to be given the necessary time to adapt smoothly to the new legislative arrangements. as we know, and i have said this before, this reduction strategy dates back to 1995. last month at the frankfurt motor show we saw that the european car industry had largely responded to the challenge of our new proposal. the manufacturers have been able to come up with cost-effective technical solutions in a short time, which have resulted in substantial fuel savings. i am absolutely convinced that with our revised strategy and the forthcoming legislative framework we will offer manufacturers a level playing field - based on environmental performance - and not competition based on the size of the car or the power of its engine alone. we're already seeing the first results. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european car industry is able to meet its carbon emission targets. this will act as a powerful incentive for innovation and renewal, and also allow for large exports to emerging countries, where there is a high demand for efficient cars, cars that do not consume large amounts of fuel. secondly, your report points out the need to take into account in future legislation a number of important factors, including the social impact and affordability for consumers. of course, it is very important that all sides are treated fairly. i would like to stress that it is our unwavering intention to propose legislation which takes account of the situation of all manufacturers and avoids undue distortion of competition. the overall target will be shared among car manufacturers in a sustainable and socially fair manner. the integrated approach we propose will help the industry to prepare for the challenges of the future and will prevent unfair burdening of particular firms or the industry as a whole. with these preliminary remarks i shall end here and thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think this is the right moment to inform the outside world about what this callanan-davies deal is. so, what is it? it is delaying action from 2012 to 2015. we have calculated the co2 impact: 125 g in 2015 is worse than 130 g in 2012. and the second part of the deal is exemptions for small-volume producers. that is 300 000 cars a year, so that is not ‘small volumes’. i think that what we are voting on this week, mr davies’ initiatives, are from a green liberal climate hero who has become a climate judas. it is really incredible: instead of using the possible centre-left majority in this house for 120 g in 2012, siding with reactionary tories to help the car industry in europe to win time – that is really not the way forward.
in writing. i voted systematically against the whole plant health package to show my opposition to a matter which was not ripe for plenary. to confront 700 members with 300 or 400 amendments to be voted on in three or four parts is simply unworthy of a legislator. we might as well have a lottery. the fact that the legislator wants to take action against the misuse of pesticides seems to be commendable. but to organise a system so bureaucratic that it cannot but be ineffective is bad legislation. in any case, if we are to feed a constantly growing population, our earth cannot do without plant-health products.
in writing. as regards the reports on the placing of plant protection products on the market and the sustainable use of pesticides, i have followed the very responsible line of my political group. products classified as cmr1 which are scientifically proven to be harmful to human and animal health should no longer be authorised. the obligation to inform all neighbours before spraying would only cause mass hysteria, apart from the fact that it would create a monstrous and counterproductive bureaucracy, which is becoming obsolete anyway because of the removal of cmr1 products from the market. i think that the principle of subsidiarity should be applied to the buffer zones which should not be treated in order to avoid additional constraints on agricultural production. i am against the creation of a special tax on authorized products, because it will result in an increase in the costs of agricultural production which is completely unnecessary. i am of course against a ban on the distribution of protective products by helicopter. it is unacceptable to defend this method which is the only viable one in certain regions where, for example, slope viticulture is practised. i am glad that my amendments concerning the unacceptable effects of plant protection products which could inter alia have a negative influence on the behaviour of certain species, such as bees, and could even lead to the extinction of these species, have been taken into consideration.
in writing. the report on the contribution of tax and customs policies to the lisbon strategy as voted in the econ committee was a viable compromise between the epp-de and alde groups and i support it. i am glad that we have managed to maintain this balance in the vote in plenary. the key point in the report, in my view, is article 4, which advocates the benefits of healthy tax competition within the european union. indeed, if we are to achieve the lisbon strategy's objectives of economic growth and job creation, we must be careful not to overtax enterprises because they are the ones creating jobs. moreover, we must not under any circumstances overtax, directly or indirectly, employees and consumers, who make a significant contribution to growth. tax competition forces member states within the european union to blend their tax requirements and be more efficient in the management of public expenditure, which can only benefit the taxpayer. the common consolidated corporate tax base, another controversial theme of the report, is in my view an element of tax policy coordination which will make corporate taxation in europe less bureaucratic and more efficient.
in writing. strasbourg is not qom, and the european parliament is not the "supreme guide" responsible for distilling decency and "good sense" throughout the union. that smoking can be dangerous to health, everyone should have understood that. but life is dangerous, because it always ends in death. personally, i've never smoked in my life. but it doesn't shock me that adults would take that risk. i am shocked, however, by the proselytism of the ayatollahs of the environment committee who, initiative after initiative, want to 'save the planet' at the expense of humans and their weaknesses. i say no to these zealots.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i am very grateful to parliament for this report, which should allow an agreement with the council at second reading on the issue of statistical business registers, which is extremely relevant for the production of harmonised, complete and reliable statistics on business and other economic activities. this new regulation will extend the business registers framework to cover the whole economy by including, on a mandatory basis, two sectors that are currently optional: agriculture and public administration. but the most important innovation of this proposal is the extension to data on multinational enterprise groups active in the eu. this is a key input in the context of economic globalisation. indeed, the informal european council last week in lisbon supported the approach proposed by the commission to ensure that european policies are aimed at defending european citizens in a globalised economy. to this end, it is crucial for policymakers and socioeconomic agents to have at their disposal accurate information on the activity of any kind of transnational companies operating here in europe. concerning the alleviation of the burden of respondents to the surveys needed to produce statistics, the commission, in the context of the overall drive towards better regulation, has paid particular attention to the simplification of the collection of statistics. business registers form an important building block in a number of projects aimed at reducing the statistical burden of businesses. they are necessary for the efficient use of business-related data from different sources, such as a combined use of administrative data and targeted statistical surveys. of course, no new surveys are needed to fulfil the new requirements of the regulation, which can be implemented using nationally available additional administrative sources and feedback from existing surveys.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, i should like to begin by saying to the rapporteur, who has complained that we are discussing this at a time of reflection, that i have been a member of a national parliament for 20 years. i do not know if he has ever been a member of a national parliament, but they are used to having night sessions, and this is not a ghost hour for me. and if the rapporteur now says that this should have been done more quickly, then perhaps he should also remember that he took a little bit of time before he was ready to draw up this report. madam president, i would like to say that the current regulation on the business registers used by the member states for statistical purposes, dated 1993 and is, in part, obsolete. in view of the new data requirements identified in this context, the proposal for a regulation contains two major modifications. all enterprises which carry on an economic activity contributing to gross domestic product, their local units, as well as the corresponding legal units, will now have to be registered on a compulsory basis. certain sectors of activity are registered on an optional basis under the current version of the regulation. secondly, financial links and business groups should be covered and data on multinational groups and their consultative units should be exchanged between member states and eurostat. for the recommendation on second reading of this report, two technical amendments recommended by the legal service of the european parliament are presented. we have proposed an economic commission, and i too propose to follow the recommendations of the legal service which, quite rightly, finds that the inclusion of the terms 'objective' and 'field' among the powers conferred on the commission would allow it to modify the obligations incumbent on the member states, the authorities and the central banks, as well as its own obligations. these obligations are elements of the basic act; any amendment, in one sense or another, could alter the political choices made in the basic act and these modifications of the common position do not constitute an obstacle to an agreement at second reading since they reflect the results of the agreement between the three main institutions, thus allowing the dossier to be closed at second reading. i think that's what's important.
(parliament adopted the resolution) madam president, the rapporteur has said that he is not responsible for the delay. it was him! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, i would like to say one more thing. i must observe that the explanatory statement drawn up by the rapporteur contains remarks which are totally outside the subject and the context of the subject-matter of this report. the point of view of the rapporteur concerning ... you are the president of a working group. i must say that the rapporteur's personal view on the pensions of our civil servants has no place in an official document of our institution. and i want this to be done!
in writing. i did not support the report which seeks to include co2 emissions from aviation in the eu's emissions trading scheme. the kyoto protocol excluded aviation. while the vast majority of the world's countries do not observe kyoto, the european union wants to go beyond what is required by the protocol. such idealism may be intellectually beautiful, but it will not save the planet, which is not in danger as such. but europe is sacrificing all its industries, including aviation, without any significant effect on the climate. i object to that.
mr president, during the negotiation of the draft resolution on the challenge of globalisation, i was able to see the gulf between the left and the right in this parliament. my colleagues from the epp and the alde group tried to criticise the millions of citizens who doubt the benefits of globalisation when they see the loss of jobs due to relocations and mergers and acquisitions, or when they compare their low incomes to the lavish bonuses of managers who preach, among other things, wage moderation. i believe that globalisation is a necessary process, particularly to enable the poorest countries to have access to international trade and thus raise the living standards of their people. but let us not be fooled by slogans! the perfect market, dear to the liberals, does not exist. competition is necessary but never free. take the energy market. 90% of the world's energy resources are controlled by sovereign states. a cartel dominates the oil market. another gas cartel is brewing. price formation is not transparent and occurs on only 40% of world trade. one third of the final price is collected through a long chain of intermediaries, made up of speculators who have no economic contribution. when speculators fail with their special vehicles, central banks inject billions into the financial system to avoid systemic risk, but in fact, they become insurers of speculation. a few ceos are leaving with golden parachutes but millions of consumers are plunging into debt, having to sell their homes. within six months, nearly half a million americans had to file for personal bankruptcy. the european economy is taking off. the commission revises downwards its economic forecasts, but the policy proposed by the commission is nothing but incantations. we are told that we need more growth and more job creation through better coordination, more research and development, that we need to respond to new social realities. but where are the budgets? where are the resources? president barroso does not want to improve the integrated guidelines. the right refuses to discuss economic coordination. sarkozy speaks pompously about everything and nothing but has not once in thirty minutes uttered the word "social". all the polls confirm it. the citizens want more social security, more purchasing power, better public services. mayors of ten european capitals have just signed a declaration in defence of public services accessible to all. what is the commission doing? it is taking refuge behind the petty protocol of the future treaty guaranteeing subsidiarity to non-economic services only, in order to undermine public services which the people of europe want. my group will not accept this resignation of the commission. together with the mayors, the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee and the trade unions, we will wage the political struggle for a more social europe, giving priority to public services. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. within the european union, geological, climatic, etc. conditions vary widely from one member state to another, and sometimes even within the same country. there are some 300 different types of soil. nevertheless, the commission is adamant about regulating land use throughout europe. the environment committee has added more. i am for subsidiarity and against overregulation. i therefore voted against this indigestible and useless report.
in writing. healthy soils are the foundation of wealth and health. they need to be protected. we cannot be satisfied with the current state of the eu's soil everywhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the soil already protected by the ivu and ffh directives does not migrate from one country to another, but this does not apply to water as a possible factor in soil pollution. but the water framework directive and the groundwater directive already exist in this area too. if we add another soil protection directive, this will lead to double regulation and an expensive bureaucratic effort that nobody wants. open coordination and exchange of best practice would be the better approach. a framework directive on soil protection is the second step before the first. it is not possible that countries which already have exemplary legislation in this area should have to spend a lot of money and time re-examining their entire territory for possible risk areas. i tried to limit the damage during the vote. i'm afraid i haven't been able to do that. that is why i could not vote for the report. i want to be able to look our farmers in the eye.
mr president, i take advantage of the report by mr tannock and mr obiols i germà, whom i congratulate on their work, to share with you, as rapporteur on the south caucasus, my impressions of the situation in georgia following a visit i made on 5 november, in the middle of a demonstration. i found a very complex situation. on the one hand, we are impressed by the important reforms that have been undertaken, especially in the economic sphere and in the fight against corruption, and on the other hand, we must not forget the difficult social climate, with very high unemployment and a third of the population living below the poverty line. what is particularly striking is the very tense, even aggressive political climate, with very serious accusations being made against the president by the opposition, followed by public retractions that raise new questions. the government responds with repeated accusations of foreign russian interference, supported by videos. the events of 7 november, namely the declaration of a state of emergency, the violent intervention of the police against the demonstrations and the closure of the television station, confirmed this extremely worrying situation. such actions obviously do not fit within the conventional framework of european values of the rule of law and fundamental rights and must be clarified. it is to be hoped that the presidential elections scheduled for 5 january will allow the democratic debate to regain the upper hand. it will then be up to the georgians to decide between rumours and reality, between disappointed hopes and challenges to be met. but it will be up to us to encourage and help them to organise these elections in a truly democratic and fair manner, in accordance with international standards. it is about the credibility and stability of democracy in georgia.
in writing. i voted for the dumitrescu report and i welcome the efforts made in parliament to reach compromises that are viable for all the actors concerned. for luxembourg, article 5 of that regulation is of paramount importance. this article reintroduces contractual freedom, allowing both parties, namely the consumer and the trader, to choose the national law applicable to their contract. this may be the member state of residence of the consumer or the member state of residence of the trader. in its proposal the commission had tried to change this situation by stipulating that only the law of the consumer's state of residence would be applicable. the consequences of such a measure would have been devastating for small member states, as companies operating in the internal market from these countries would have been obliged to apply up to 27 different national laws, which would discourage smes in particular from engaging in business activities that go beyond national borders. consumers in small member states would have suffered a significant reduction in supply. the resulting bureaucratic overload would have risked leading operators to no longer offer their services to consumers resident in those member states.
in writing. the fact that the european union is once again preparing to celebrate the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights shows that european citizens are being duped. the original charter had been amended, particularly as regards its jurisdictional impact, to allow the united kingdom to sign the constitutional treaty in rome. this concession to the british is now collected. however, protocol 7 of the future lisbon treaty provides for the opt-out of the united kingdom and poland, and "for the avoidance of doubt" states that the "charter does not extend the power of the court of justice of the european union" to judge a legislative or regulatory act of these countries on the basis of the charter, and "does not create rights enforceable against poland or the united kingdom". this means that the rights enshrined in the charter will have no community value. i'm not going to be a party to this deception.
in writing. i voted for the christensen report because it combines the elements of flexibility and security in an adequate and consensual way. this report makes it clear that flexibility in the labour market does not exclude job security. the term 'flexicurity' is often demonized. in this report we have succeeded in removing the pejorative connotations of this guiding principle which should inspire employment policy in europe. job creation is essential to combat unemployment in europe, which, despite progress in recent years, remains too high. flexicurity gives us a realistic perspective in our challenge to achieve the objectives of the lisbon strategy. to achieve this, we must find solutions to facilitate access to employment and to train a skilled, flexible, mobile and motivated workforce. employment is the best protection against social exclusion. europe must encourage member states to facilitate access to employment for those trying to enter or re-enter the labour market. all legislation on employment and working conditions is the responsibility of the member states and i support the amendments which strengthen the principle of subsidiarity.
i have to say, madam president, politics is the art of the attainable. this is also the case with this new reform of the wine market regulation. however, the commission in 2006 assumed assumptions about unsellable surpluses in the eu that are no longer correct and largely ignored the opinion of parliament expressed in february in its legislative proposal. as in 1999, we have been able, with persistence, ingenuity and close cooperation with the industry, particularly in the intergroup on wine, to forge a compromise that the european wine industry, both in the south and in the north, will have to live with in the future if it is to produce good wines and to promote their sale within and outside the eu. we want to create the necessary instruments and give the regions the responsibility for using them within an appropriate financial framework. in the disagreeable dispute over oenological processes, which the commission has unnecessarily fuelled, we have again largely agreed to the 1999 compromise, even if the commissioner still does not like it. the reason and the recognition that the problems of sales in the south cannot be solved by making it impossible to produce marketable wines in the north have prevailed and will hopefully find a large majority here. of course, the devil is in the detail. i respect the compromise, for the achievement of which the rapporteur also had to make a move, which i highly appreciate. i shall therefore abstain from making any new proposals, but i shall not vote on any unfortunate details which have nothing to do with the compromise. for example, it is absolutely counterproductive to have to indicate on the label the origin of eu must with which it is enriched if one wants to promote this form of enrichment. the important thing is that the reform helps to ensure that we remain the world market leader with sufficient production potential in terms of quantity and quality, that we ensure that in the eu and in third countries we drink much more wine in the interests of health! (applause from the centre)
mr president, in 1981 1% of the european population owned 8% of the total wealth of the time. twenty-five years later, the richest 1% of the population control 17% of the income in the european union. one in six people, or some 74 million europeans, live below the poverty line as defined for each country. without social transfers, some 185 million europeans, or almost 4% of the european population, would be plunged into poverty. this shows the need for an active social policy, a policy of redistribution of wealth. the union's action in the social field is particularly limited. the commission's vision for a more social europe in the 21st century is perfect in its analysis but silent on legislative initiatives. president barroso has just told us that the lisbon strategy is bearing fruit. he's right, you know. but at the same time, europe's economic beauty is threatened by the most insidious version of globalisation: borderless financial markets. the so-called subprime crisis was born out of the consumer frenzy of the american people. global finance has endorsed these special vehicles filled with rotten mortgages. the finest of banking, insurance, pension funds has shown once again that greed is greater than intelligence. anyway, the financial world is not risking anything: too big to fail. the central banks of the states and the taxpayer will come to the rescue of the golden parachutists. the price to pay will be high. economic activity has already declined in europe. the u.s. is in recession. the dollar is sinking, the prices of raw materials, even basic foodstuffs, are soaring. the credit crunch is already affecting smes and citizens looking for housing. the draft conclusions of the lisbon council show no signs of any european reaction, and i regret that very much.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to commend the economic and monetary affairs committee and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr klinz, for taking the initiative to elaborate an own-initiative report, and for the hard work put into that report. i would like to take this opportunity also to thank the european parliament for its valuable contribution to the asset management debate. parliament’s previous report on asset management was also an excellent contribution to our work on the ucits directive. a long process of analysis and consultation has, we believe, succeeded in building a strong consensus on what needs to be done and how. we should not overload our agenda, but we are not blind to other issues and problems. today’s report testifies to the wide range of other issues confronting the european funds industry. we have already started work in many of the areas highlighted in the present report. the aim is to build a robust body of evidence on which to base future decisions. we are glad to see that a careful impact-assessment-driven process is endorsed by parliament. we strongly believe in that approach in the commission. it would ensure that future initiatives respond to real needs and provide effective solutions. we are also applying this approach in our work on private placement. by may 2008, we plan to present a commission communication assessing the need for, and the feasibility of, the european private placement regime. the report before us today calls for speedy solutions to facilitate the cross-border passporting of retail non-harmonised funds. we are also looking carefully at this important issue, and will report to the council and parliament in autumn 2008. we hope that this report will bring some empirical basis to this complex discussion. sometimes, listening to this debate, we might have the impression that solutions are identified before a problem has been properly specified. we would caution against rushing to further enlarge the eu retail fund framework. ucits 3 already permits a wide range of innovative strategies, including some types of alternative investment. we need to be clear about what is currently possible, and on whether risk management controls across the industry are up to scratch, before contemplating further enlargement of the retail fund framework. we understand the european funds industry’s desire to explore its lead in innovation and financial creativity, but not at the price of investor confidence in the ucits brand. we acknowledge the concerns raised in the report with regard to the divergent regulatory requirements applicable to the distribution of substitute products, and stress that the commission has an open mind on whether there is a substantive issue that needs to be tackled. responses to the call for evidence launched in october will allow us to assess whether the existing regulatory patchwork results in a real and significant risk of investor detriment. in the light of responses and further follow-up work, the commission will issue a communication in autumn 2008 on the need for eu-level action. we welcome the report’s acknowledgement of the positive contribution that hedge funds provide to the functioning of markets and corporate efficiency. some recent industry-led initiatives to develop voluntary standards on best practices are a welcome and proportionate response to the demands for greater disclosure. we appreciate that parliament also considers that international responses are needed in these highly globalised businesses. in summary, a lot has been achieved in the area of asset management. there is a long road ahead. new challenges constantly appear in this fast-moving business. however, we will do ourselves no favours by rushing into hasty and ill-prepared responses. we are glad to see that the commission has, in parliament, a valuable partner working towards the same goal, which is an integrated and efficient european fund market delivering for both industry and investors alike.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, on this important own-initiative report on the commission's white paper on investment funds, we have agreed to focus on the non-legislative elements as the legislative proposal for the revision of the ucits iii directive will be received in early 2008. however, the issues we have discussed are of crucial importance to collective investment schemes. the extension of the scope of the assets eligible for open-ended real estate funds and alternative fund funds is likely to undermine the excellent global reputation of ucits products and to have negative effects on the distribution of those products within the european union and to third countries. in order to avoid any negative impact on the european investment fund industry, parliament called on the commission to carry out a thorough study of the possible consequences of including such non-harmonised retail funds among the assets eligible for the ucits brand. investments in ucits products are in the order of billions of euros and represent some 80% of the investment fund market in europe. the sector is looking forward to the revision of the ucits directive. however, in order to avoid any unnecessary and counterproductive delay in this revision, parliament has made it clear that any extension of eligible assets should only take place after the completion of the legislative reform of the ucits directive. on behalf of my group i have repeatedly called for this approach and i would like to welcome the rapporteur's compromise. the report also calls for the creation of a harmonised framework for private investment within the union. i fully support the recommendations of the report on this point. finally, the private placement scheme should be based on a precise definition of qualified investor as provided for in the mifid directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial markets are not distorted by the excessive use of state resources. i am against the socialist amendment which calls, in the context of the scope of the private placement regime, for an equivalence of the regulation and supervision systems between the states, which would allow reciprocal access to their markets. this equivalence is simply unrealistic at european level. i would also like to point out one point on which my group and i disagree with the rapporteur. this concerns paragraph 19 which deals with the question of so-called 'guaranteed funds'. the very concept of such funds is controversial and we have tried to expose the erroneous definition. i hope we can reject this paragraph. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work, which has helped us to prepare the ground for the legislative proposal. we can now approach the work for next year with a sense of calm.
in writing. i abstained on the resolution on eu-china relations because i do not want to be associated with the paternalistic remonstrances and the moralizing discourse that such resolutions convey. a european union which is not able to adopt a charter of fundamental rights valid throughout its territory is ill-placed to set itself up as a lesson-giver for the rest of the world.
