madam chancellor, please! the german presidency has not shrunk from including difficult tasks in its work programme. the presidency's aim of continuing the full liberalisation of the european postal services market and its commitment to complete the internal market for gas and electricity are highly commendable. i hope that germany will use its influence to make a real breakthrough in european energy security policy, including by forming a common policy with russia, supported by all member states. overall, much of the presidency programme can be seen as a real tool for further union integration and for winning the support of european society. i don't think that can be said about the first priority of the presidency, returning to the constitutional debate. the rejection of the constitution in the two large member states is at least a signal that the european union has become too distant and incomprehensible for voters even in the founding countries. i was among the members of the european convention who called for not writing a european constitution but for developing existing treaties to bring the european union closer to citizens in the member states, large and small, old and new. that's what i'm calling for today.
on behalf of the uen group mr president, madam minister, mr vice-president! i am very pleased that the three colleagues with whom i had the honour of initially taking part in the third railway package have prepared the second reading with great success. the success of the package is due, firstly, to the fact that it has been maintained and, secondly, to the european parliament's firm insistence that we cannot apply different standards to so-called international and domestic transport in the europe of the future. the european passenger must be equally protected when crossing a border and when not crossing it. and when we think about liberalising the passenger transport market, we have to be principled. if there is an internal market in the european union, then so is domestic transport. it cannot be that in the services or goods market segment we say that this is the single internal market of the european union, but in this one it is limited by the borders of the member states. if i were to look at the eyes of the citizens of the baltic states on this third railway package and ask what will change for me as a customer, then from the council's overall position i would say nothing will change. because just as the baltic is cut off from the european union's electricity network, so too is the baltic cut off from the european union's international rail transport. parliament must therefore be prepared to go through the conciliation procedure, both for people with disabilities and for passengers in the west and the environment in europe, and for the periphery in the east. and i think we also need to come up with some new solution for the quality of rail freight, but that is a question for the future. thank you.
the agenda for the spring european council is by far the most important topic on the agenda for the european union as a whole and for each member state. the lisbon strategy and energy and climate change policy targets are ambitious, but they require reality to deliver. most of the tasks to be undertaken to achieve the objectives set are deliberate, but the implementation of these tasks is made much more difficult by the interlinked nature of the reforms to be undertaken in the economic, social and environmental fields. the situation is further complicated by the interdependence of member states in maintaining the pace and quality of reforms. this is what we have recently experienced in the intense debate on the services directive, which was conceived as one of the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy. the current agenda includes new tests on member states' readiness to maintain the pace of reforms, such as the liberalisation of the european energy market. a liberalised european energy market is a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the common market, energy independence, long-term stability and the integration of new member states into the single market for electricity and gas. one of the key tasks of this european council is to set the course for agreement on a single european energy policy in the member states. energy policy must become a component of the european union's security policy as soon as possible. member states should be able to agree on a common strategy for supply and transit routes. the establishment of a permanent dialogue with energy-consuming and energy-supplying countries is also essential to prevent the emergence of growing global imbalances and instability. in relations with its main gas supplier, europe russia needs to be persuaded to ratify the transit protocol and the energy charter agreement. moreover, the commission and the member states should not be allowed to differ on this point. i hope that this important spring european council theme will help to strengthen a common understanding of the interdependence of both achievements and responsibilities in each member state individually and in the european union as a whole. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a very important role in the european union. the fight against global forms of terrorism is a crucial test of the capacity of democratic europe to act. to deter and prevent brutal acts of terrorism, the special services must be able to apply the most effective preventive and repressive methods, which are inconceivable without international cooperation. the fava report is highly critical of the us, but it must be recognised that there is a need for closer cooperation between the eu and the us than at present, for a joint us-european approach to the ideological causes of terrorism, and for a closer exchange of information based on mutual trust. the european parliament and member states' national parliaments also need to be more closely and professionally involved in the preparation and implementation of the overall terrorism strategy, and active cooperation between member states' services should be encouraged. parliamentary scrutiny should ensure a higher level of competence and political accountability, in particular when checking the legality of counter-terrorism measures.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur for her consistent work in preparing parliament’s opinion under consideration. as a shadow rapporteur, i am especially satisfied that, following a two-hour discussion with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, my proposal to mention the requirement to undergo a mandatory registration procedure as being a serious obstacle to travel within russia and the eu has been taken into account. the requirement to undergo registration in russia has become an enormous problem for those eu citizens applying for private short-stay visas to russia. latvian citizens and non-citizens know this problem from their own negative experience since many of us, especially russian speakers, mainly go to russia in order to visit our relatives and friends living there. the new law on migration registration of foreign nationals and stateless persons in the russian federation entered into force recently, on 15 january of this year. the law provides some facilitation of the registration procedure and abolishes registration fees but, nevertheless, the system as such is preserved. unfortunately, such a system is reciprocal, since some eu member states also demand the registration of certain categories of third-country nationals. both the russian and eu sides have to make immediate efforts to find a solution for essential facilitation of movement of people between our countries. nevertheless, since some facilitation of the issuing of short-stay visas is better than none at all, our political group is supporting the agreement on this. on the other hand, we maintain our principal reservations with respect to the agreement on readmission.
my fellow citizens! addressing the issues of visa facilitation and readmission is an important task that would contribute to the consolidation of common values. however, the discussions and the replies from the commission and the council confirm that nothing has actually been achieved in the negotiations with russia: neither the registration procedure nor the simplification of the invitation system. it's left to the goodwill of russia. it is not clear why russia has been granted a transitional period for the readmission of third-country nationals. our may 2005 report on european union-russia relations underlined that the european parliament reiterated its call on russia to ratify the border agreement with estonia and to sign and ratify the border agreement with latvia without delay. i consider that the demarcation of borders and the conclusion of readmission agreements are prerequisites for the signing of visa facilitation agreements. russia has not shown any initiative in this regard, but has dictated its rules to both countries. since parliament is in a very humiliating position, we do not think it is possible to support these agreements.
on behalf of the uen group i would like to commend the rapporteur for the comprehensive assessment of the european investment bank as a financial institution of the european union in achieving european objectives. the bank maintains its role in business promotion. it will also have new opportunities and responsibilities in the european union's energy policy and in the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, especially in the latter, where the objectives are not supported by funding. i would like to express the bank's commitment to a change in its project financing policy from quantitative to qualitative, which will require more analytical work but will certainly better serve the interests of developing competitive businesses. the european investment bank's refusal to participate in the controversial baltic sea gas pipeline project may be seen as a very deliberate decision not to engage in projects that undermine solidarity in european energy policy. the bank's mission is and remains to promote the economic and social cohesion of the european union. i support the report's call for the bank to focus on economic and social cohesion in the least developed regions, the first target regions, which the bank has not always taken into account in its lending policy. the bank's activities in promoting the integration of less developed areas into the knowledge-based economy and its efforts to develop financial instruments to support smes are particularly encouraged. the bank's role as a financial catalyst in the financing of european communications networks is to be welcomed. the bank's participation in the financing of interconnection of transnational energy networks, where private capital is hampered by complex financing arrangements, will be of particular importance for the private capital contribution. at the same time, the bank could play an increasing role in attracting private capital for various investment projects by providing extensive investment appraisal capabilities in relation to projects in which the bank participates or intends to participate. the bank has not followed the process of enlargement of the european union in its structural development and, as the report indicates, it does not have a permanent delegation in the baltic sea region. i agree with the report's demand that the bank improve its communication policy and the main information on the bank's website by translating it into all the languages of the member states of the european union. thank you.
mr president, on a point of order, at the beginning of voting time we voted on two esteves reports: the first on readmission, without a roll-call vote, and the second on short-stay visas, with a roll-call vote. however, you announced the same title both times: ‘the report on readmission’. as a result, there was some confusion in the vote by the verts/ale group. i would like to ask the secretariat and the president to check our vote. our group’s position was in favour of the report on short-stay visas and against the report on readmission. i am afraid that the whole group has voted otherwise because of the mistake made in the announcement of the title of the report. please take this into account.
on behalf of the uen group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, representatives of the commission, honourable members! i think everyone agrees that nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament is a specific component of the european union's common foreign and security policy. here, colleagues have just expressed the view that the results of the implementation of this policy can be regarded as almost a step backwards. however, after reading the council and commission documents, i must say that they are more optimistic and, in the light of what has actually been achieved, i think that the progress of the european union is still considerable. the coordination of the work of the european union institutions among themselves is ensured on an ongoing basis. of course, the deputy high representative of the csce for non-proliferation and disarmament is active, we also regularly discuss these issues in the european parliament, and there are institutional discussions and exchanges of information with the european union situation centre and the counter-terrorism coordinator. this means that work is indeed under way, but the cases of north korea and iran, the failure of the 2005 npt review conference, and the disagreements with the united states, china and russia show that there is still a lot of work to be done. i therefore wish to express my appreciation for the timely preparations for the 2010 review conference of the npt and also note and ask the council to take account of the wish of the european parliament to participate actively in this work and of the initiative expressed in its resolution and to include meps in the european union delegation to the said conference as soon as possible.
thank you, chairman. i would like to congratulate the presidency on the successful outcome of the council's work, the very ambitious work programme and its almost complete implementation. first, the unfinished business. it is a pity that the commission's proposal to split the vertically integrated companies was blocked. the big energy companies, which dictate the rules to national governments, have shown little interest in cross-border connections so far. the creation of a genuine european energy market is likely to be delayed again. the decisions that were made. the ambitious target to increase the share of renewable energy and reduce emissions is a bold and welcome step. the key is to make sure that government officials understand what they are doing. we must not let this happen as it did with the lisbon objectives. the decision was taken without relying on calculations of the availability and deployment of renewable energy resources in the member states, the availability of technologies and their prices. this will require very responsible action by the member states, close cooperation and mutual solidarity. this is one of the decisions that the european community believes in and supports. the task, like the lisbon plans, is achievable, but politicians must not make the mistake of setting targets to achieve this objective. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. my fellow citizens! the eu's own resources system has changed considerably since its introduction in 1970. the share of traditional own resources and vat own resources in eu budget revenues has gradually decreased, while the share of gdp own resources has increased significantly. this additional own resource already represents some 75% of the revenue of the european union budget. the dominant role of gdp own resources, while ensuring that member states' contributions are commensurate with their relative prosperity, nevertheless places a significant burden on the financing of the eu budget. instead of focusing on the priority problems to be solved by the european union, member states are trading on their contribution levels most of the time. the level of eu budget financing is largely determined by the results of these negotiations, often without regard to the commitments that member states have previously made themselves. as a result, the eu budget grows much more slowly than the budgets of the member states and many priorities of importance to the european union as a whole suffer from underfunding. it is important to ensure sufficient annual revenue growth for the eu budget when reforming the eu's own resources system. this increase should be proportional to the growth of the eu economy and should automatically result from the structure of the own resources system rather than from the trading performance of the member states. this adjustment does not, of course, affect the existing own resources ceiling of 1,24% of the european union's total national payment appropriations. this is an important principle which should be emphasised alongside the other principles of equality and solidarity between member states, a simple system that is understandable to the eu's citizens. as regards specific solutions to increase the revenue of the eu budget, greater emphasis could be placed, for example, on vat own resources by channelling a certain share of vat revenue to the eu budget. it is important that the burden of contributions is distributed fairly, i.e. in proportion to the welfare levels of the member states. energy or natural resource consumption is not directly proportional to wealth, so environmental and energy taxes are not appropriate for the eu's own resources system. cars in the poorest eu member states do not consume less fuel than those in the richest. they may even consume more fuel because they are older cars. the resulting burden of contributions in less developed member states would be disproportionately high. thank you.
for the ppe-de group - mr president! my fellow citizens! first of all, on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to support the rapporteur's approach that the level of european parliament expenditure should be based on justified needs after careful consideration. however, in this speech i wanted to draw attention to my proposal to reduce the consumption of paper and energy in the european parliament. the eu institutions should set an example by demonstrating environmentally friendly policies and reducing energy consumption. unfortunately, the european parliament is using resources inefficiently in a number of areas, such as wasteful paper consumption and unnecessary, intensive air-conditioning in the summer. reducing paper consumption by using air conditioning more rationally would have environmental benefits as well as significant savings for the european parliament's budget. virtually all european parliament documents are available in electronic form. my proposal is to reduce the circulation of paper versions of documents by making paper versions of many documents available on request rather than automatically distributed to all members and staff. every working day, meps and staff receive a huge amount of paper documents. most of them are subsequently discarded, as electronic versions of the document are available where necessary. it would be much more rational to allow members and staff to apply for documents they would like to receive in paper form in the future and to read them electronically. the potential savings are considerable, given that the european parliament currently consumes almost 850 tonnes of paper per year, or 3.4 million sheets per week. as regards air conditioning, the proposal provides for a few degrees of increase in the temperature of the european parliament's air in summer, which has so far been kept unnecessarily, even uncomfortably, low. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. mr solan, please! i would like to thank you for mentioning that the european union's highest circles are about to discuss the deployment of anti-missile systems in the european union, but on the other hand i would like to point out that i think that this preparation is already overdue, because it is no secret that this process in europe is already beginning to take shape and that society is being shaken. i think you should be much more active in opposing the russian arguments, the speculation that this country has developed on this issue. there is talk of a cold war, pressure is being put on the polish and czech states. i think that is absolutely unacceptable and the european union must make its position clear. otherwise, the wayward politicians like schroeder, who is, of course, a putin scholar, come out with their statements and disturb european society. i think it is also not enough to leave this matter to the nato secretary-general, because, of course, the united states of america speaks directly about the defence of europe, much less about the defence of the united states of america. the united states of america is talking about protecting europe! and so the european citizen expects a clear position from you, mr solana, as the implementer of the european external security and defence policy. i expect the same from you personally. thank you.
mr president, i should like to draw your attention to the scandalous process due to start in tallinn in two days. the estonian authorities are preparing to remove from the city centre the graves of soldiers who died in battle liberating tallinn from the fascist occupiers in september 1944 and the monument to those soldiers. exonerating those estonians who fought on the nazi side during world war ii while ignoring the heroism of those who sacrificed their lives in order to defeat hitler and his local allies is a part of present-day state politics. unfortunately, a similar policy is being applied in my country, latvia. i am protesting against such dangerous politics, not only personally but also on behalf of a group of 37 representatives of russian speakers, jews and the russian media from 15 eu member states – including estonia – which is visiting parliament today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. when decisions are taken on eu enlargement, it is important to assess their impact on the eu budget. the accession of large and economically less developed countries such as turkey to the eu would have a significant impact on regional policy, and either the funds for the newly-acquired countries should be distributed or the funding for regional policy should be significantly increased. in any event, the european commission should be provided with detailed information on the budgetary impact of the expected enlargement and on possible solutions for eu regional policy. a significant increase in funding for the eu's regional policy is possible. the european parliament has endorsed the expenditure for the next financial perspective at 1.18% of eu gni, including 0.41% of eu gni for eu funds, a significant increase on the current 0.37%. i accept that this question will have to be addressed in the medium-term review of the financial perspective in the context of further enlargement of the eu, for example by croatia. the rapporteur's proposal for differentiated co-financing, providing for a higher aid intensity for less developed regions and countries, is to be supported. this approach is fully in line with the eu's regional policy objectives and has already been supported in the european parliament's report on the financial perspective. the per capita gdp of a region should continue to be the main criterion for determining the availability of eu funds to regions and countries. however, there is concern about the proposal to increase the share of member states' funding, ostensibly to improve the effectiveness of regional policy. it should be noted that the share of co-financing by the member states has recently been increased by prohibiting the inclusion of non-refundable vat in eligible expenditure. the acquisition of eu funds is already too bureaucratic and the rapporteur's proposals for a better link between eu funds and the objectives of the lisbon strategy and for greater transparency, while generally welcomed, must not create new bureaucratic obstacles to the acquisition of eu funds. thank you for your attention.
rapporteur. – madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the president-in-office for her encouraging words made in bremen – and i hope also here during our debate today – as well as for her continued commitment in the fight against hiv/aids. as the federal chancellor, angela merkel, stated in her keynote speech at the conference in bremen, the fight against hiv/aids is the responsibility of all member states. i strongly believe that every single national government should follow germany’s example and take full political responsibility by putting the fight against hiv/aids on its list of top policy priorities. today, parliament is being asked to vote on my report on combating hiv/aids within the european union and in the neighbouring countries, 2006-2009, which contains many important suggestions on how to combat the disease. various colleagues contributed to this final consolidated version, and i want to use this opportunity to thank all my colleagues who contributed to this report as shadow rapporteurs or by tabling amendments. their input was of great value and is much appreciated. as you know, after the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, several new amendments were tabled by the political groups to be voted on during today’s sitting. the majority of those amendments have my support. however, i could not agree on some. if adopted, one of the amendments would, in reality, prolong the current situation where two member states of the eu are not reporting data to the eu surveillance bodies concerning hiv/aids, especially to the european centre for disease prevention and control. therefore, in my report i urged the responsible bodies in those two member states to start reporting data. all the other 25 member states report their national data anonymously, which does not contradict personal data protection. i want to draw your attention to, and ask for your support for, amendment 4, tabled by the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, regarding equal access to medicines within the european union. let me briefly explain the motivation for tabling this amendment. as already stated in the report, access to anti-retroviral treatment and anti-retroviral drugs are different and varying among the member states of the european union. at the same time, let me remind you that article 300 of the ec treaty provides a legal basis for the commission to conduct negotiations on behalf of all member states if the council authorises the commission to do so. in such a case, if the european parliament and the council were to decide in favour of this proposal, the commission’s mandate would be limited in scope and duration only to those particular negotiations, namely for equal access to anti-retroviral medicines. negotiating on behalf of 27 member states, the outcome could be beneficial for everyone and provide all citizens of the eu with equal access to those medicines. to conclude, i should like to thank once more all my colleagues who contributed to the work done in this report. the work combating this pandemic will not stop after today’s vote: it will continue in the field. therefore, i should like to call on all the national governments and the commission to support non-governmental organisations, social organisations and society as a whole to fight against hiv/aids. i call for them to be empowered by allocating the necessary financial resources to strengthen those who fight this epidemic in the front line. the role of civic society in this fight is not to be underestimated, and we need to guarantee our full political support.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president, honourable member of the council, honourable commissioner, honourable colleagues! i'd like to thank all of the reporters on erica 3 for their great work. i would like to speak about two aspects of mrs d. vlasta's report on port state control. first, the project expresses the idea of carrying out inspections in anchorages without carefully considering how to do it and what it will actually yield. if the definition of anchorages includes all areas under port jurisdiction, then, for example, in the baltic sea conditions, this would mean inspections in the open sea 8 to 10 miles from the shore. the resulting result, a small number of inspected vessels, is not comparable to the material resources that would be required to ensure compliance with this directive, nor is it comparable to the risks to the health and life of inspectors that such inspections pose. in addition, in the baltic climate conditions, it is not possible to carry out a qualitative inspection at sea under these conditions, and i therefore invite my colleagues to reconsider this proposal, which would allow the member states to designate these anchorages themselves. the second aspect is the 'grey' and 'black' list. for example, the detention rate of latvian vessels is not higher than that of many other countries on the 'white' list, but latvian vessels are on the 'grey' list and, according to the paris mou methodology, have much worse opportunities than representatives of the large fleet countries. this, in turn, does not encourage the return of vessels flying the latvian flag, and it results in a sort of curved arc - the vessel is not removed from the ash list and therefore there are no methods to promote the inclusion of latvia in the white list. i therefore call for support for the argument that, in the context of the paris mou, the methodology for carrying out these calculations could be changed. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group - my colleagues! first of all, i would like to thank simon coveney for a really great job in producing this report. it's realistic and yet healthy critical. the assessment of the first year of work of the un commission on human rights should be welcomed. it has not been very effective and the resolution adopted is fading. it is also positive that the report is more detailed on parliament's human rights activities. in view of the deterioration of the situation of democracy and freedom of the press, as well as of human rights in russia, the commission and the council should set stricter requirements for russia in the new partnership and cooperation agreement, in addition to the human rights clause, by establishing more effective monitoring mechanisms. the council and the commission must do their utmost to reduce human rights violations in belarus. president lukashenko's statement this week on improving relations between belarus and russia, i quote: "we don't need inspectors, controllers or teachers!" the eu is also encouraging the belarusian authorities to continue to monitor the situation closely and to increase their support for civil society and opposition activities in belarus. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, chairman! the developments in ukraine are of particular concern to the european parliament, and not just because ukraine is a european neighbour. although ukraine is not envisaged as a candidate country for the european union in the near future, the successful development of the democratic process and the growing economic potential of the country do not exclude such a possibility in the medium term. the development of the democratic process in ukraine, its integration into the world economy, and the development of diverse relations with the european union created good conditions for finding constructive solutions to the country's internal political conflicts and for the integration of ukrainian society. the current political crisis is a touchstone for the development of democracy in ukraine and its resolution will determine the direction of the country's future development. the european union must promote the political views of the ukrainian belligerents towards compromise. political parties must be able to agree on the correction of shortcomings in constitutional reform, so that these reforms are aimed at maintaining the balance of the state administration and ensuring the stability of the state political system. the resolution of the political crisis should be based on democratic methods, including early elections, which would give the ukrainian people the final say in the resolution of the political crisis. thank you.
mr president, i would like to bring to your attention the historical background of the recent riots and violent demonstrations in estonia. the european union should understand that during the 50 years of soviet occupation the communist regime committed multiple crimes against the populations of the baltic states. it moved hundreds of thousands of working migrants to the territories of these occupied, former sovereign states, which were members of the league of nations, and created a real threat that estonians and latvians might become minorities in their own countries. following immense pressure from the international community, including the european institutions, estonia and latvia agreed to integrate those hundreds of thousands of non-citizens into their societies. however, integration is a two-way process, and the recent developments in estonia show that there are reverse tendencies. the sentiments of soviet times have been replaced by russia’s new imperialistic approach. especially alarming is the fact that the younger generation, on which the most hopes for integration and loyalty have been placed, was at the centre of the recent violent events in estonia, and this must give us some food for thought.
my fellow citizens! the events in estonia have shed light on several issues of european importance: 1) russia has not abandoned its nets towards the baltic states in an attempt to apply the 'sand and steel' principle; 2) russia needs to be reminded of the need to recognise the facts of the occupation of the baltic states, as a different treatment of history will inevitably lead to similar conflicts in the future; 3) the small estonian state, like finland in 1939, did not fear the attacks of the 'neighbouring bear', preserved its self-respect and gained success and the support of european countries; 4) russia understands only a firm and determined position. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is a major player in the world economy. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and the european union is a major player in the world economy.
mr president, i have listened with great attention to the commissioner’s contribution, but i do not agree that the issue is just a dispute between russia and estonia. moreover, i wonder how the inter-ethnic conflict, the relations between minorities and majorities, one of the crucial points of which is a different approach to history, now becomes a matter of relations between the european union and russia. i represent the russian-speaking minority in latvia and i have said on many occasions that we do not want to be hostages to geo-political games. unfortunately, russian speakers in estonia as well as in latvia were so-called prisoners of the first cold war by being denied their citizens’ rights – by being denied their language as an official language in the countries where they were a substantial minority. now, unfortunately, we might be the hostages of the new cold war and we see appeals in this house to the behaviour which is very like the cold war. there cannot be solidarity when there is violation of human rights. a number of international organisations just report on violations of human rights during the recent events in estonia.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr barroso for the idea expressed by samara that any problem with russia in the smallest member state is also a problem with russia in the european union. it was a good support for the member states, the new member states, especially estonia, but it is important to understand that even for those politicians who have "pink glasses" on relations with russia, it will continue to be attempts to show that russia has a real old europe and its near border areas, which, in russia's mind, have temporarily fallen into the european union under the influence of various events, and parallel to the tests of the strength of the unity of the european union, new ones will be tested, and new virtual weapons are being tested, which can cause enormous damage in modern society. the question is therefore whether the european union will wait and face new problems in a member state of the european union's successor bloc, or whether it will be able to impose on russia the requirements that any state must meet if it wants to become a subject of a democratic and predictable partnership. thank you.
colleagues, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. it is particularly important that europe not only shows solidarity but also recognises the real causes of the atrocities in estonia. europe must understand that estonia was the scene of a clash between the ideology of western democracy and the old soviet totalitarianism. in this context, europe must unquestionably reject the totalitarian historical interpretations of the soviet era. europe must encourage the removal of soviet symbols that are offensive to the peoples of the ussr's oppressed territories. europe must play its part in restoring the historical truth in the occupied baltic states and elsewhere in eastern europe. this could be a prerequisite for reconciliation and integration of representatives of different ideologies in the future in the occupied territories of the former ussr. it is also a common european problem. i would particularly like to stress that the european parliament must continue to be an active participant in the pursuit of these objectives of truth and justice. thank you.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the commissioner, the rapporteur and the council on the compromise reached on this issue, which is so important for europeans. of course, from an economic point of view, intervention in a market segment by setting a retail price cap can be considered as a market economy operator. but, in the wake of the european commission's failed attempts to influence the roaming market by other methods, this is the last tool of the legislators, and, remarkably, it will also be dead in the water. but in reality, this rule also has a political meaning. it shows that the european internal market is indeed europe-wide and not the sum of individual member states' markets. the fact that a local market appears to be in perfect competition does not mean that it is the same at european union level. and such protection of the member states' markets from the common market, the true internal market of the european union, exists in many areas. i will mention a few: transport, services, labour mobility and others. this does not mean that the legislator in the european union will always have to take similar administrative measures to influence the market and even to regulate prices. however, if retail price limits are no longer necessary even in three years' time, it will prove that, at least in the field of mobile communications, we are capable of creating a genuine european internal market. thank you.
thank you, president. i have no doubt that both those who support the european constitution and those who do not want to see it all want to see europe stronger. there are differences in how this is achieved. i, like most people in this room, believe in the idea of the european union, but the lack of public support makes us less able to achieve it. the question therefore arises whether the adoption of the constitution will help to regain public support. as one of the participants in the european convention for the drafting of the constitution, i am not sure about that. the existing contract opportunities are also not being used. mr prime minister, the european services market you mentioned is a good example of this. and the extension of the qualified majority principle would not have been equivalent to liberalisation of the services sector rather the opposite. it is essential at this historical juncture to increase mutual understanding and the desire for cooperation between member states, based on common values and the idea of the union, so that the interests of large and small, rich and poor, new and old member states are equally valued. i realise that this is a difficult task, but without it it will not be possible to regain stable public support in the member states. without it, the union cannot become stronger. the draft constitution does not separate these tasks.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, madam president, and to the commissioner. first of all, i would like to say that, as a citizen of latvia, i was familiar with the history of this road section and it seemed to me that it had been known for many years that this road section would be built. it is possible that the alignment of the natura 2000 sites under previous polish governments may not have been carried out in the best possible way. however, the consequences of these delays are not only for the people living in poland, especially in the east, who use this road section, perhaps on a daily basis, but for the whole three eu member states estonia, latvia, lithuania , and not only as citizens moving to the european union, but also as a large industrial sector, as this road section is used by 4,5 thousand trucks every day to cross the city of augustówka. i would very much like to see a compromise that does not delay the construction of the road, which is already delayed. what makes me worry is that these three baltic countries are not actually connected to the european union by a very normal, modern highway. these three baltic states are not linked to the european union by rail via poland, as the rail baltica section of the route in this area is expected to face the same difficulties in meeting environmental requirements. and these three baltic states are not even connected to the european electricity market within the polish-lithuanian border. i would therefore urge the commission and all others, including the polish government, who could make these decisions at a reasonable pace, to think about this issue not only from the point of view of poland and the european environmental requirements, but also from the point of view of the interests of these three member states of the european union. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group colleagues, there is no doubt that the member states are interested in constructive cooperation with russia. however, our report still regrets that russia is using trade policy instruments for foreign policy purposes in a way that is not compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation. this report should therefore be adopted, which calls for negotiations on the npt to be conducted in a manner that does not depart from the standards and requirements of the european union's values. russia needs to understand and provide transparent and predictable business conditions based on strong democratic values and trust. without such requirements, there is little hope that russia will end discrimination against the baltic and other countries in the region in the field of railway or timber export tariffs, restrictions on exports of fish, meat, dairy products. and finally, i would like to draw attention to the urgent need to solve the problems of improving the infrastructure of the latvian and russian border crossings.
thank you, madam president. ladies and gentlemen, in our relations with russia we are faced with a situation where fish products from the baltic or meat from poland are becoming very unhealthy for a russian society which is living a very healthy life. the same applies to oil pipelines they are occasionally very quickly depleted technically in situations where the ownership of oil refineries in the baltic states changes. in contrast, railway tariff policy has for many years made cargo transportation to the ports of the baltic sea countries up to 2,7 times more expensive than to russian ports. in the context of the wto, therefore, i believe it is of the utmost importance to achieve a situation in which no discrimination of any kind is allowed in trade relations between russia and a member state of the european union, especially in those member states of the european union which russia still considers as its special sphere of influence. thank you.
the late mr. glaser! you have already mentioned abkhazia, south ossetia, and it is known that russia is now issuing russian passports to abkhazians and south ossetians en masse, thus artificially reducing the proportion of georgian citizens in these regions. the european union, by delaying the granting of such visa facilitation to georgia, indirectly creates additional incentives for obtaining a russian passport, as russian citizens currently have greater opportunities to travel to the european union than georgian citizens. the second question is why the council has not yet started these talks on visa facilitation for georgia. what specific solutions do you see that could solve this, i think, unacceptable situation?
you guys! i'm not going to let you down. the call underlines, with good reason, the need to enhance confidence in criminal matters through the exchange of information with third countries. however, do you know how effective cooperation coordinators eurojust, interpol, europol and police or judicial cooperation agreements are? my personal experience shows that even in the simplest cases, the examination of elementary evidence initiated by the minister of the interior and the state prosecutor general on cases of corruption at the level of the latvian police management has taken half a year there, even though only half an hour would be needed to examine elementary evidence in the member state concerned. commissioner, i think it is absolutely unacceptable that in matters of international legal aid, in cases of the highest importance concerning political-economic crimes of a national character, correspondence with a third country is dragged on for three or four years. this is the investigation of a certain mayor a. lemberg of ventspils. such speed of legal assistance does not ensure effective fight against corruption. unfortunately, this situation creates a legal nihilism in a society that expects effective action against crime. i would therefore draw your attention, commissioner, to the fact that there are cases where new instruments are needed, with a view to prioritising the separation and special treatment of certain categories of cases and, importantly, not only comprehensively but also quickly.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president, commissioner! i would also like to start by congratulating mr ferber on a brilliant compromise in a very difficult situation, as evidenced by the many hundreds of proposals from a wide variety of interest groups. i am also pleased that this is the case where the specificities of the new member states have been taken into account in providing for this two-year extension and a possible even longer term for the maintenance of universal service. i would of course like to acknowledge that in many of the new member states, the postal services are not yet ready for such a real competition. it is therefore very important that, on the one hand, the quality of postal services in the new member states is improved by competition, but on the other hand we must preserve the human aspect that mr simson has already mentioned. i am also pleased that the member states have found a way to finance this universal service period in one of the models and, finally, that the committees have managed to find a compromise on the protection of personal data in cases where the current universal service provider has to transfer this database to other market players. because i very much hope that the vote tomorrow will be a success and that this long work on the postal directive will be completed. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: first of all, i would like to thank mr kramer for this report, although it has, of course, been very controversial. in his short speech, mr o'mani said that this report highlighted that the european union's border countries, such as the baltic states, despite having liberalised this rail freight market, are in fact dependent on freight customers, and in our case, most often russia. if russia does choose to cooperate with the railway monopoly company, then we have a fairly difficult time seeing the real impact of the introduction of this first railway legislative package. i therefore think that this issue with russia should be discussed further in other possible aspects, and even more so since the russian deputy prime minister ivanov announced the redirection of container cargo flows only to russian ports. thank you.
my fellow citizens! the european parliament, as the sole institution of the european union elected by its citizens, has a duty to make its decisions understandable. i would like to emphasise that the reasons why the constitutional treaty was rejected in two member states and unpopular in the others have not been sufficiently analysed. i think that the skepticism was largely because citizens saw the concentration of decision-making, the arrogance and alienation of power from the human being, and the excessive bureaucracy. these are all reasons for citizens to become opponents of further integration. our job is to involve citizens in decision-making, not to decide for them. speak in terms that people can understand, not in the special terms of officials. the intergovernmental conference should take this into account. at the same time, it is important to further develop the principle of solidarity in decision-making, for example in the crucial energy sector. we must speak with one voice to third countries to prevent individual countries from blackmailing us. i would like to emphasise that despite its mistakes and shortcomings, the european union is a successful project.
thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kaminska. the rapporteur's deep personal interest in the development of events in ukraine and in promoting relations between the european union and ukraine certainly helped to shape parliament's position. ukraine has consistently attracted the special attention of the european union. it has a significant geopolitical role that extends far beyond its borders. the european union has a vital interest in a democratic and economically prosperous ukraine. the establishment of a perspective for ukraine's aspiration to become a member state of the european union is an essential support for the achievement of these objectives. this would be a very important contribution to the development of democratic processes in ukraine, would help the internal political processes in the country to gain stability, would promote the process of integration of ukrainian society. the report sets out the direction of the state reforms, the tasks for the development of democracy, the rule of law, the business and investment environment and is an important support for the long-term stabilisation of ukraine. increasingly close cooperation with the european union will pave the way for addressing these issues and set the pace for ukraine's integration into the european union. thank you.
thank you, chairman. the current financial instability could not have come as a surprise, but it came as a shock to everyone. the growing liquidity demand was driven by non-performing real estate and consumer loans. the corrections in the market are due to the fact that money has been too cheap for a long time, which has eroded the standards for evaluating investments. the market failure has even penalized attractive assets which should not have been subject to price undercutting. for the last time, we can see that easily available cheap money does not create sustainable growth. sustainable growth is based on proactive systemic reforms, efficient investment and a freer and more transparent market. the main concern at present is to prevent the liquidity crisis from turning into an insolvency crisis. what started as a liquidity crisis can degenerate into a insolvency crisis, as market participants, convinced of their lack of information, will be reluctant to lend to each other. the real estate crisis can cause serious complications in several eu member states, not just the us. investors and depositors will not regain confidence in the financial markets until they are sure that valuations are appropriate. this means that risk premia may increase, leading to lower consumption by firms and households. this could reduce or in some cases even stop the dynamics of investment. european fiscal and monetary policymakers must be ready for this. the main responsibility for stabilising the situation will lie with fiscal policymakers. in the area of monetary policy, we can expect lower funding rates, something that many european politicians are longing for. at the same time, the market must not be given a false confidence that risky investments will be saved. both the borrowing rates and the collateral requirements must mitigate the moral hazard that such a conviction might cause. in the long term, central banks need to complete financial market regulation mechanisms that provide greater transparency and security in financial markets. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. one of the objectives of the european energy strategy is to increase the share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption to 20% by 2020. latvia is a pioneer in this field, as the share of renewable energy in latvia is already 37%. in order to ensure that the targets for the share of renewable energy in the national electricity mix are met, member states should be able to set the targets for the share of renewable energy in the national electricity mix in accordance with the national energy efficiency standards. the rapporteur's view that attention should be paid to ensuring that large member states do not receive discounts and renewable targets below 20% is supported. given that the five largest member states account for at least 60% of eu energy consumption, the rebates for the large countries would impose a disproportionate burden on the rest. it must be acknowledged that the eu already has a negative experience in a similar matter. the european commission's action in allocating co2 emission allowances was at least strange. the commission itself has stated that the ets is designed to help member states meet their kyoto commitments. the new eu member states are meeting their kyoto commitments, but they have significantly reduced their emission allowances, e.g. latvia, which has the lowest co2 emission allowances per capita in the european union, will only receive 55% of the required emission allowances. estonia and lithuania will receive 52,53%. the quotas of the other new member states were also reduced significantly. by contrast, almost all of the old member states that are not meeting their collective kyoto commitments are allocated more than 90% of the requested emission allowances. it is no wonder that the five new member states were forced to appeal this decision. the rapporteur's position on the allocation of additional eu budgetary resources to the objectives of the european energy strategy is supported by the priority given to this area in the review of the eu financial perspective for 2007-13. the objectives of the european energy strategy are both economically and ecologically viable. it remains only to call on the european commission not to repeat the mistakes of the past and to ensure a fair distribution of these objectives, to ensure the involvement of all member states' assets in the achievement of these objectives. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the uen group the president of the commission, mr commissioner! first of all, i would like to thank all three of my fellow rapporteurs and also the head of the european parliament's delegation during the vidal-quadra conciliation procedure. no one is completely satisfied, certainly not the rapporteurs, the companies, parliament or the council, but it is always the best compromise if all parties cannot consider themselves as winners. i think the most important achievement of the european parliament is the strong position on passenger rights, and also the gain is this clause 'fundamental rights of passengers', and this is particularly important that it was achieved with regard to persons with special needs, including the liability for baggage from railway undertakings. of course, we can regret that the extended rights have been limited in scope, and that the whole series of passenger extra rights on urban and regional routes will probably not be guaranteed for 15 years in most countries. i am pleased that competition is entering international rail transport from 2010, mr jarzembowski's report, but in domestic transport, despite the experience gained, there is at least a clear procedure for the analysis to be carried out by the commission, but this decision was not adopted on any date of derogation. i can also express my regret on two points: firstly, there is virtually no international passenger rail link with the countries of the european union, with certain countries, with the member states, including my own member state, that is to say latvia. and overall, the whole package's action in the european union is therefore partially limited, it does not work across the whole of the wider european union and some member states are affected by it very little overall. the second thing that concerns me, of course, is that we have not been able to improve the quality of the cargo transported. i hope it's for the future. but i will end on a positive note, with what i have started - but the result is there, and particularly in the area of passenger rights, it is undoubtedly positive. thank you.
my fellow citizens! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr saryusz-wolski, for his comprehensive and extremely timely report. energy is an area where the european union shares competence with the member states. and it is clear that in these circumstances, moving towards a common foreign and energy policy is not an easy task. however, the need to resolve the situation as quickly as possible is driven by our dependence on unstable countries with questionable democratic qualities for energy supply. the issue of security of energy supply is an important element of overall security. experience has shown that energy can be a very effective tool for political pressure. the only way to counteract this is through common policies and solidarity. one of the largest suppliers to the european union is russia, with which a new partnership and cooperation agreement is currently being developed. it must work on the principles of the energy charter, of course it is necessary for russia to ratify the charter. as regards third countries with growing energy needs, the european union should ensure that renewable technologies are supplied to them on preferential terms. this will undoubtedly pay off in many ways in the future. last week the commission put forward a proposal for further market liberalisation. unfortunately, this was immediately opposed by some member states and russia. it is symptomatic that the opposition comes from countries where companies have also in the recent past tried to benefit from the establishment of a special bilateral relationship, ignoring the rights and interests of other member states, as is the case, for example, with the northern european gas pipeline project. i hope we can find some common ground, and that will make us stronger in our external relations. thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in a fair and transparent manner. i would like to see parliament, by strengthening the community approach to legal immigration, also tackling the employment deficit in my country, latvia, in a number of sectors such as construction, catering. yes, many latvians have gone to work legally in these sectors in several european union countries, and we have jobs legally and illegally filled by third-country nationals. however, those who are keen to strengthen the european parliament and reduce the role of member states, especially small countries, in immigration matters would like to see a change of focus, and that would be to make every effort to ensure that several member states stop restricting their labour market to those member states of the european union that joined in 2004, not to mention the treatment of the member states of 2007, thus promoting illegal employment even for european union citizens. be consistent, my colleagues! thank you.
on behalf of the uen group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of the uen group, i would like to emphasise that we support the edaf military mission in the world's largest peacekeeping mission in chad and the central african republic. this is the worst cross-border humanitarian crisis in the world. in fact, the un security council should have acted much earlier. the delay of four years has cost 200,000 lives, 2.5 million people have been displaced, and there have been bandit attacks on aid workers. the scale of the crisis caused by the darfur conflict is likely to test the political will of the european union as well as its military capabilities. a few days ago, general leakey assured the members that, despite the security problems and the difficulty of anticipating all the possible dangers and risks that could be expected during the operation, the european union military is capable of carrying out this operation no worse than in bosnia, and that from a military point of view the operation would be of low intensity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank ms buitenweg for this report, which draws attention to one of the more serious issues in europe’s problem of racial and ethnic discrimination. commissioner, in my opinion the commission should be more active in order to promote transposition of the racial equality directive. each day brings us a lot of cases where correct transposition is necessary to protect victims. i would also like to mention that some practices related to linguistic policy may be considered as indirect discrimination under the directive. for example, in my country, latvia, as well as in neighbouring estonia, states which have a high proportion of ethnic minorities, there are disproportionate language criteria for employment, as well as requirements to use only one language in communication with authorities. i believe that if such practices lead to under-representation of racial and ethnic minorities in different areas of social life, member states have a duty to develop policies aiming at ensuring equal access and avoiding discrimination. there is another matter of concern. sometimes different treatment on the grounds of nationality may be considered as indirect ethnic discrimination. it happens when policy concerning citizenship is aimed at excluding those of minority backgrounds – roma or russians, for example. i hope that the european courts, as well as the inter-american court of human rights, which stated that there should not be racial or ethnic discrimination on access to nationality, will not be less progressive and will monitor carefully the impact of policy concerning nationality on persons belonging to different ethnic groups.
drafting of the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been given a new mandate. i am very pleased that after the lisbon summit we can finally move forward with the signing, ratification and implementation of the reform treaty. we all understand that this new treaty is necessary for the development and consolidation of europe. that is why, as the draftsman of the opinion on behalf of afco, i am surprised that budget heading iiib, that is european citizenship, was the only one for which substantial reductions were envisaged compared to the 2007 budget. at a time of change in the institutional set-up of the european union, there is a need for means of communication with the public. the citizens of the european union must be informed about the changes to be made, and their participation and support must be sought. i am therefore grateful to my colleagues in the afco political group, and in particular to the rapporteurs and colleagues in the committee on budgets, for supporting my proposals to increase expenditure on this programme under several headings. i hope that parliament will also support the budgetary reforms and that these funds will be put to good use in strengthening the european union. thank you.
my fellow citizens! russia is an important partner, but its policies are a cause for concern. while there are no statues of putin on russian streets, there are signs of a cult of personality. the candidacy of the president of the republic for the parliamentary elections is an unprecedented event in the history of a democratic state, as is the nomination of the leader of the radical movement 'nashi' for the post of minister of youth affairs and the refusal to host a delegation from the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights. the russian manipulation of its citizens abroad is dangerous. a study in latvia shows that russian support for the indigenous is in stark contrast to the integration of society. it is also feared that the history of political activity of the persons who recently organized the russian forum in the european parliament suggests per-destructive plans in other european countries. it is our duty to confront these manipulations, because russia is testing the limits of our patience. as regards the energy dialogue, it is necessary that the principles of the energy charter and ratification be an integral part of the new agreement, despite moscow's dissatisfaction with the reciprocity clause. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, chairman! greenhouse gas emissions trading is the right answer to reducing aviation emissions. however, the conditions for introducing quotas must be carefully evaluated in order to avoid creating unequal conditions of competition for the mobility of airlines from the member states of the european union and of citizens of the european union. most airlines in the new eu member states lag far behind those in the old eu member states, both in terms of the number of passengers they carry and in terms of their greenhouse gas emissions per capita. the future growth of air carriers in the new member states of the european union is difficult to assess, but there is no doubt that transport volumes in the new member states will have to increase significantly in order to bring the mobility rates of the population of the european union closer together. the balancing of the mobility of the european union's population will be delayed if greenhouse gas emissions trading does not provide the conditions for fast-growing airlines to continue to grow, so that the money spent on buying emission allowances does not become a brake on their development. the environment committee of the parliament has supported the proposal to create a new aircraft operator reserve, which is right. however, in order to ensure equal treatment of aircraft operators with different starting positions and development trends, a part of the allowances should be reserved for aircraft operators with rapid capacity growth. the rapid increase in capacity could be assumed to be at least twice the annual average growth rate of passenger numbers in the european union. both these proposals are essential to promote competition in the european union air carrier market. thank you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following issues. first, as regards the multiannual strategy to establish an area of freedom security and justice: the draft reform treaty foresees the respect for the rights of persons belonging to minorities. i believe that now we really need a common european policy on minority rights and social inclusion – the recent events in italy demonstrated this clearly. speaking about putting the citizens first, i am sure that we have to return again to the concept of civic citizenship, which includes all permanent residents of the eu. mr frattini, the commission should take a stand on this. as regards multilingualism, european policies to promote language diversity must take into account that not only official languages exist but also regional and minority languages. these languages should benefit from multilingualism policies also.
council of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great joy that i stand before you today on behalf of the presidency and the portuguese republic to discuss the imminent enlargement of the schengen area. just a year ago, dark clouds loomed over europe, threatening a very serious political crisis, resulting from the technical impossibility of activating the second generation schengen information system in 2007. to postpone indefinitely the satisfaction of the just expectations of the peoples of the member states which joined the european union in 2004 for free movement would not only have been an intolerable manifestation of technological incapacity but, above all, a heavy defeat of the european ideal and a testament to the impotence and incompetence of our institutions and member states. we could give the citizens a thousand explanations, but all of them would sound like weak excuses and invite a hunt for the culprits, poisoning the practical solution to the problem. we have happily taken another route and done so with a speed and cohesion that are truly unprecedented. first we found in lisbon the good technological answer to the technological crisis. sisone4all was a project conceived in about 30 days, its feasibility study was scrutinised by the best european experts in a similar timeframe, in december 2006 the jai council was able to give the green light to start the process with a schedule of operations worthy of a european version of the film mission impossible and with a miniscule budget of just over half a million euros. in march, as promised, the computer application was ready, which cloned the portuguese n-sis, and which we handed over to the new project partner states. c-sis has also been significantly upgraded with the full commitment of the french republic, which i would like to thank. the german presidency has timely pushed forward with the appropriate legal measures. by august 31st, we were able to complete the application installation and data migration, a difficult and complex process. the next day, the new tools were made available to the security forces of the new member states, who soon began to use them with great success. it was to be seen whether all the many other measures necessary for admission to the schengen area had been adopted with equal success in relation to land and sea borders, police cooperation, data protection and visa issuance, among other aspects. fortunately, that is what happened. last week, on 8 november, the jha council took note that the member states concerned had been able to demonstrate a sufficient degree of readiness to implement satisfactorily both the non-sis-related provisions and the schengen information system-related provisions of the schengen acquis. i would like to welcome here in this parliament all those who have made the changes and those who have carried out the programme of evaluations carried out over the course of months. it is worth noting the remarkable work carried out by the many experts involved in the visits which made it possible to verify, without any doubt, the changes made in a few months. today, on what will be the new external frontier of our european union, we have the most sophisticated and modern equipment, award-winning organisational solutions and procedures to ensure a very high level of crime prevention. they will be supplemented by special policing measures, already agreed at bilateral or multilateral level, so that the day after the abolition of controls there will be more freedom but not less security. i would also like to stress that the concern for maximum transparency has led the portuguese presidency to make successful efforts to ensure that the european parliament can have access to the information resulting from the extensive effort made. the european parliament was thus able to verify the accuracy of the summary of the evaluation, which we also wanted to provide in a separate document. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, for his great commitment to meeting the tight deadlines and the excellent quality of the work produced. ladies and gentlemen, this is the approach we need to meet the future challenge of managing and creating sis ii, vis and the new traveller information systems that vice-president frattini recently announced. let no one be under any illusions mega projects like these can be great successes or heavy failures. success is only attainable with strong command structures, determined leadership and very demanding timelines. we do not need a technological czar, but we need a lot of democratic networking between the commission, the member states and the european parliament, as was exemplary in this case, and i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to this success. this is the secret of the success of sisone4all and it is only in this way that we can save resources, generate synergies between projects and, above all, ladies and gentlemen, not miss deadlines. the council is still lacking a single precondition for a decision on the full application of the provisions of the schengen acquis to the new member states, which it intends to adopt in december 2007. that is your vote, the vote of the european parliament, on the outcome of which i hope to count, and i am confident in that regard, given the very positive content of the resolution which is already scheduled for vote. finally, let me express my warm thanks for the very complimentary remarks which the european parliament will address to the presidency and the portuguese republic in this resolution. on behalf of the men and women who have devoted themselves over the past few months to the noble task of preparing the historic decision that will finally bury the iron curtain, i would like to say that we were not driven only by the passion to win and to avoid a serious crisis. we have mobilised the best european know-how, we have been able to take advantage of the tools of the new digital europe to discuss our plans and difficulties quickly, we have created a good network of experts, a help desk active 24 hours a day, every day of the week, to find solutions, everything has always been done in close and unprecedented liaison between technicians and politicians, ministers of the sector who met periodically in special meetings to lead the process with full solidarity from the commission. i would like to highlight in particular the role of vice-president frattini. we must also never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that europe has its parliamentary representatives whose opinion must be taken into account in what we do. we have now taken note of your recommendations and look forward to your representation at the commemorative ceremonies to be held on 21 and 22 to mark the historic enlargement of the european area of free movement. thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for your contribution to this historic result.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate all the member states on their achievements in making it possible for citizens in poland, estonia, lithuania, latvia, the czech republic, slovenia, hungary, slovakia, malta and in the current schengen countries to finally fully benefit from the free movement of persons, which is one of the pillars of the european union. this is a real benefit for the citizens of the member states that joined the eu in 2004. it will make travelling quicker and easier. for all the member states of the european union, this shows the benefit of acting together in the european framework. an area without internal border control is an amazing achievement, without historical precedent. from 21 december onwards, travel will be possible from, for example, the iberian peninsula to the baltic states and from greece to finland without border checks. this is truly symbolic of a united europe and a basic right for all european citizens. as you are all aware, this historic achievement follows much preparation. joining the schengen area is not an easy undertaking. it is a challenge, and we must strike the right balance between freedom and security. lifting internal border controls is also a question of trust between member states. it is through a peer evaluation process, the ‘schengen evaluation’, that member states gain confidence in each other’s capacity to guard the external borders on behalf of all the others and issue visas valid for the whole schengen area. member states will also improve police cooperation and security controls within the broader schengen space, in order to prevent criminals from enjoying free movement and better opportunities to act illegally. all this would not have been possible without financial solidarity. the schengen facility, providing nearly eur 1 billion, enabled the new member states to meet, in particular, the challenge of building up an efficient border control and becoming full partners in the schengen area. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, and the european parliament for their positive support in reaching this fundamental achievement, and last, but not least, i congratulate the portuguese presidency. i congratulate you personally, and ministers of the interior, minister costa and minister pereira, on your strategic partnership and clarity of purpose for the successful implementation of the schengen information system project, known as ‘sis one for all’. we have worked hard, together with the former german and the future slovenian presidencies, to support our portuguese colleagues, and we have succeeded. this shows what can be accomplished if everyone is fully committed to a complex project. now, ladies and gentlemen, work is not finished. our ultimate goal is to make schengen information system ii fully operational by december 2008. we will again have to work very hard together.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, first of all, on behalf of my group, i would like to congratulate the new member states, including my own state, latvia, on the occasion of joining the schengen area. i also thank portugal for its sis i initiative, which has opened the way to free movement for many europeans. many thanks to all the people who were involved in this work and did their best in order to make this christmas gift possible. in the mean time, a lot of problems still exist in this field. what has happened with sis ii? when can it start operating? we are also worried about the use of sensitive data by sis ii. the data protection regime applicable to these sis ii rules is unduly complex. will we have a political agreement on the third pillar data protection framework decision by the end of this year? will the framework decision solve all the problems? do data protection authorities have adequate resources to enforce data protection rules in respect of sis ii? will all member states act in good faith when processing schengen data? why am i posing so many questions now? i just want to remind you that the schengen system is far from complete. a good job has been done in order to enlarge the schengen area, but now we have a new task – maybe a more difficult one – to make the area of freedom and liberty a guaranteed area for everyone.
my fellow citizens! after the rose revolution, georgia demonstrated its desire to join european values. it was waiting for our welcome and sympathy. unfortunately, we have been completely ignorant of this desire. last year, i called for the replacement of the un peacekeeping force with international peacekeepers. i've proposed a revision of the law on issuing russian passports in abkhazia, south ossetia, which changes the composition of citizens in georgia. i urge the commission and the council to adapt to georgia the same visa facilitation as that currently available in russia. but calls for more active involvement in georgia's problems have not been heeded. this ignorance has contributed greatly to the present situation. the path to democracy and change often means internal political crises, especially as in this case, they are provoked by a large neighbouring country. the european union must listen to georgia and show solidarity in deeds, not just words. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group the report provides a broad overview of the current development of ukraine as a partner of the european union, its tasks and deserves praise for the scope of the issues covered and the depth of their assessment. the report shows the author's deep personal interest in the development of ukraine and its relations with the european union, which has certainly benefited the report. the journalist is careful and sensitive in his assessment of the problems that threaten the successful development of the ukrainian state, while at the same time, without calling things by their real name, it is sometimes difficult to expect solutions to the problems. it is important to note that many sectors of the ukrainian economy are still over-regulated, state interference is not justified by laws, and the inflation of creating incompatible legislation continues to rise, which is good for those who look for loopholes in the law and those who deal with legislative acts. this, together with the high bureaucratic burden, significantly hampers the inflow of investment into the national economy, including from the european union. the energy sector is a good example. the european union is interested in a transparent natural gas transit system in ukraine, which, like the entire energy sector in ukraine, is overregulated with artificially complex structures, unclear cash flows. the european union still does not have data to assess the security of the ukrainian gas transit system. these are important issues for the european union as ukraine's largest trading partner. it is hoped that ukraine will manage to overcome its protracted political crisis and that the ukrainian government will in future be an interested negotiating partner of the european union, allowing for close cooperation on the basis of mutual interest. i agree with the author of the report that ukraine's desire to join the european union cannot be ignored and i would like to emphasise here again that a clear perspective for membership of the european union is the most effective reform tool that the european union can offer ukraine. thank you.
thank you, chairman. mr prime minister, the lisbon treaty will be ratified in december, and it will not only set the institutional framework for europe's future. i see three assessments of the lisbon outcome that could be agreed by all those who care about the future of europe - both those who welcome the lisbon achievements and those who reject them. the lisbon agreement is a source of some optimism about the future of the european union, firstly about the ability of the member states to reach an agreement; secondly, there is caution in assessing the agreement reached, since the real effect of a treaty of this scale will only be appreciated after several years of its implementation; and thirdly, there is a negative assessment of the fact that, following the outcome of the dutch and french referendums, the constitutional treaty has been overtaken by a treaty, also in order to avoid consulting the public. paradoxically, one of the main tasks of the constitutional treaty was to make it more comprehensible and acceptable to the european community. as a member of the european convention, i object to the application of the constitution's "word and spirit" to the new treaty. the lisbon outcome is in the direction i support, but i do not think that the reasons for the changes that have taken place are in the interests of europe's future. thank you.
on behalf of the uen group the commissioner is hereby appointed. i too would like to join in the achievements of the ottawa convention. i would also like to congratulate the european union on its considerable success in supporting this convention. however, there are some problems. pakistan, india and china still advocate the preservation of antipersonnel mines in their defence concepts. unfortunately, the member states of the european union in finland are looking at this issue in an attempt to discuss the possibility of replacing landmines with coal mines, which would not be acceptable to the european union. the united states and russia are reportedly developing a new alternative to the convention, the guided and self-destructing mine. the question therefore arises: what should the european union and the ottawa convention member states do next? these countries may be encouraged to purchase the next generation of more humane anti-personnel mines. i would therefore urge the european union to develop its position now on the us and russian desire to develop this next generation of antipersonnel mines and to act against it.
on behalf of the uen group thank you, mr president, commissioner! i would first like to thank mr paolo costa, who tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the committee on transport on the matter under consideration. however, politically, i would like to go much further than just stressing the need for the council to adopt a position on the seven legislative proposals within the so-called third maritime package without delay. i do not think that this will solve the problem of the environmentally dangerous inland seas, such as the black sea and the baltic sea, which are bordered by the european union and russia as a coastal state. given the level of oil prices and their profit level, russian oil exports by sea will increase very rapidly in the future. this is in line with russia's transport policy to export oil through its own ports while keeping pipelines empty at the european union's oil terminals in ventspils and butyněj. can we expect an increase in demand for such tankers, and will the russian tanker fleet receive the necessary investment to stop using single-hull tankers, 40-year-old ones and those designed for rivers? i don't think so, you know. the main motivation for possible oil transportation by sea will be the cheapest possible wreck. because i believe that maintaining strict safety measures for shipping only within the european union will not save the environment in the seas that supply the european union, unless the european union adopts international standards. thank you.
thank you, mr president! i would like to congratulate the portuguese presidency on its achievement! the presidency has succeeded in crowning its heavy agenda with a new treaty. this was the period when it was necessary to reach an agreement on the reform treaty. not only to build institutional capacity, but above all to keep the member states confident in their ability to reach an agreement. the portuguese presidency has set a standard that can serve as a good reference point for subsequent presidencies. this note must be kept. the lisbon treaty must be attractive, all the more so because it will not be put to a popular vote in countries that rejected its earlier version. it is a demonstration to the european community and to the world that europe is truly dynamic, not just a technical agreement, that the european union is not just an economic project but also a cooperation with social objectives. the european union will be able to demonstrate the benefits of the lisbon treaty by agreeing on rapid and far-reaching economic reforms. there are many solutions offered by european union policies that are respected around the world. for example, a decision by the european competition authority or action to limit climate change. however, it is not a rare case of the european union's persistent indecisiveness. the failure to agree on a common policy on security of energy supply and the liberalisation of the electricity and gas markets will determine the european union's global competitiveness in many ways. the internal reform capacity will determine the external capabilities of the european union. the dynamics within the european union will increasingly determine its international weight, its potential attraction in the eyes of the member states and its absorption capacity. the adoption of the lisbon treaty must mark a turning point that removes the arguments about the european union's absorption capacity for those countries which meet the accession criteria convincingly, and i hope that ukraine will soon be given the opportunity to demonstrate its desire to join the european union. thank you.
