madam president, as commissioner barrot has rightly said, this is a delicate, sensitive and emotional subject. it is an emotion on all sides, because you have on your side hundreds of children who are victims after being infected and who now have a large number of them already dead after being infected with aids. and then there are the other victims, because the bulgarian nurse and the palestinian doctor are also victims. they are already victims because they have been in prison for too long in libya and they are also victims because they have the death penalty hanging over them. there can be no more severe punishment than this. the judicial process, it took too long, the guilty verdict ignored clear evidence from renowned international experts showing their innocence and the death penalty is a sentence we can only oppose and can never accept. what has happened so far? it must be said that important efforts have been made especially by the european commission which has launched an action plan for benghazi which is a plan that seeks to help children, to help their families, to also help the libyan authorities, to improve the sanitary situation in hospitals, especially in benghazi. it should also be mentioned that the international benghazi fund was set up in january last year and this is a good thing. but now the situation has escalated because of the new death sentence we had a few days ago, which was a sentence that escalated the situation. so what can be done? what needs to be done is a greater dose of humanitarian sense. we increase our solidarity with both the children and their families, as well as with the bulgarian and palestinian victims involved in this matter. even the death penalty, the libyan authorities, and we should appeal to them here, can themselves reduce the tension by declaring from now on that the death penalty will not be applied. we have a resolution that is not confrontational, not threatening, it is balanced but clear on these points.
in view of the progressive cross-border movement of people, products and information it has become essential to achieve a common identification of the law applicable in non-contractual obligations. however, there appears to be a distinction with what is being proposed by the commission and the opinion of the committee on legal affairs. the essence of this legislation is whether it can co-exist in harmony with existing national laws or it can supplant same. the committee believes that national laws and what is being proposed will not hinder but enhance national laws. a clear distinction has to be made and once there is general agreement of more uniformity then this legislation should be all-encompassing and it is important that the possibility of ambiguity of the applicable law is resolved. it is apparent that there is a lacuna in the rome convention of 1980 and that subsequently entered into in brussels, and whereas the applicable law arising from non-contractual obligations has been adequately tackled, the relevant disputes still need to be addressed in full. the second important distinction relates to the content. there seems to be a different approach as to what non-contractual obligations should be included in the current legislation. such issues as environmental ones are to be left to national legislation, whereas the original proposal had a wider scope.
in writing. my vote in favour of this resolution reflects mainly my position against the death penalty in all circumstances. i believe that the long years of work done by several countries, including malta, to bring libya back closer to the international community cannot be thrown away and that this case shows the need for more, not less, dialogue between the two sides.
the recommendation is not intended to substitute national legislation but to take into account when proceedings involve parties who reside or are domiciled in different countries of the european union, or a party residing or domiciled in a non-community state, or a choice between the laws of different countries. it is becoming essential for principles governing limitation periods to be laid down clearly in an appropriate form for claims to damages. the general limitation period which is being proposed is four years, except where the proper law of the claim provides for a longer period. this general principle may cause problems, since the national legislation may cater for a shorter period, in which case there would be a discriminatory scenario when claims for damages arise between nationals or persons domiciled in the same state and when the issue relates to parties residing or domiciled in different states. the same may be said for interruption, suspension and methods of calculating when the period limitation initiates. having stated the above it is better to have clear regulations for cross-border disputes which at the same time differ from national legislations. perhaps the dilemma can start to be solved if national legislation is harmonised with the proposed regulations.
mr president, last week the european cruise industry organised a one-day conference in brussels, bringing together all the stakeholders of this industry. at this conference a report was launched on the very important contribution that this industry makes to europe. among other things, it is announced that this industry is responsible for some 190,000 jobs in europe. i think, mr president, that this parliament should recognise the importance of this industry, and strive to ensure that the european union places it and gives it greater importance in the policy it develops. thank you very much.
mr president, there is no doubt that we must make progress on environmental regulations. but i also think we have to rely on the local implementation of these regulations. commissioner, you are well aware of what is happening in malta at the moment, where it has been decided against all logic to build the mega-recycling plant instead of going for a regional solution, in a way that has been proven beyond any doubt the way the decision was taken breaks every rule one can think of for a decision on a transparent and meaningful consultation process. suffice it to say that when the supposed list of alternative sites was made none of them were big enough to accommodate this plant, and conveniently then one went for the plant the government wanted. the planning regulations enforced so zealously with the weak have been completely distorted, and the maltese ombudsman has now intervened in this case as well. shortly after the local residents met with you, mr commissioner, the authorities rushed to try to close this chapter once and for all as they please. the commission is looking into this case, we know that, but now we need to act as quickly as possible to show the european union that from laws on paper, we can also see that they are implemented in the best way, locally. thank you.
the president of the council. i have to say, madam president, i have failed to congratulate you because i did not think of the large region of westphalia-lippe, from which my colleague mr brok also comes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i want to thank you for the exchange of views. of course, there are differences and different views in such a debate, but there is also agreement, and many have referred to the debate this morning. there were, of course, considerable differences of opinion on this too, but there was agreement on the question of combating international terrorism and on the preservation of our common values. a society like ours is open to pluralism. the fundamental freedoms of course include the right of citizens to security. how can safety be guaranteed? there is one area which we can perhaps solve in the member states alone, but it is becoming increasingly clear - and this has been pointed out by a number of colleagues - that coordination, that is to say, crossborder cooperation, is necessary. this includes crossborder cooperation between europe and the united states. as we have discussed the causes of terrorism today, it should be noted that there is also a holistic, long-term approach. a colleague warned that the keyword 'prevention' might not be the right action. i think prevention is a very important aspect. let me return, for example, to the conference in tripoli last november between the african union and the european union on migration. it is essential that we have a common approach to the problem of the right to education and training, and that we have a common approach to the problem of the right to education and training. do they have any perspective at all? or they may become victims of those who make promises to them, but those promises often end in their death. i believe that this is an area in which the european union cannot close itself off. as in many other areas, we had a heated debate here a few years ago on the european security strategy and we agreed that the fight against international terrorism is an essential point, but that a very graduated set of instruments is also necessary, and that prevention is also part of that. but all these measures are not at the touch of a button and cannot be implemented overnight. it takes a long breath, but it also takes coordination. i would like to take up a few points which the commission and i raised in my introduction, namely the importance of highlighting the role of the united nations in this matter. what else can we do? i think it is important that parliamentarians - not only them, but also them - continue this dialogue with colleagues from other regions who may also be suffering from terrorism. i remember the founding of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. i repeat, i warn against simple answers and quick fixes. we need a long breath and a coordinated approach within the european union.
member of the commission. madam president, i think this report and the debate on its adoption confirm the importance of the fight against terrorism not only for the member states, but also for the european union as a whole. it also demonstrates that respect for human rights has to remain the core of our counter-terrorism policies. i think our colleague is right: it has to be with patience, but also with persistence, that we fight against terrorism. i would like to make just a few comments. first, on the question of security and development, i said that i personally have always clung to the system of human security. why? because i think there is no development without security and no security without development. therefore, freedom from fear – i.e. security for citizens – and freedom from want – i.e. prosperity rather than poverty – have to be our goal and, therefore, this is as much as a development issue as it is a foreign policy issue. second, i would also like to speak about the victims of terrorism. saludo a las víctimas del terrorismo aquí presentes. victims of terrorism require our full attention, and the ways to assist them are under discussion in a number of international fora. the commission will also follow these discussions with the greatest interest. furthermore, assistance to victims of terrorism is provided through a number of financial programmes run by the services of vice-president frattini, and also by ourselves: for instance, in colombia, where we are working hard on the reinsertion of former soldiers of the different terrorist organisations. dialogue between cultures and civilisations is also highly important, and i cannot agree that this should be restricted to extremist and fundamentalist islamists. they exist, but there are also other terrorists. therefore, please let us not restrict the debate to this group alone: it is much broader, and it is very important that we not only respect different religions and civilisations, but also that we work with each other, talk to each other and have an ongoing dialogue. i should also like to say a word on the issue of the internet, which is one of the important areas under discussion in the g8, in the rome/lyons group. there are a lot of complexities, since important aspects – for instance, freedom of the press – are involved, not least in the united states. what is involved? sharing knowledge, helping to understand terrorists, the use of the internet for radicalisation and recruitment, for propaganda and fund-raising, sharing best practices, how we can work against it on a voluntary basis, fine methodologies, etc. i just wanted to say to mr belder that there is quite a lot going on. finally, it is in this spirit that the commission will also examine the very important remarks and recommendations that have been made and are included in this report. the overall objective remains to improve the efficiency and coherence of our collective efforts, and i think cooperation between the three institutions will be key to success in the long run.
in writing. – international terrorism is like a deadly disease. we often see it as someone else’s misfortune until it strikes home. ultimately, however, in a direct or indirect way all countries, and even institutions, are drawn into the cauldron. terrorism knows no borders and is indiscriminate. one has only to review the names of those who died in 9/11 to realise that the victims derived from so many different countries and adhered to all the major religions. can we talk, however, of a war on terror? in war your enemies are known. in terrorist scenarios these are unknown. a main topic of public international law is the laws of war. this is completely alien when dealing with terrorists. however we have managed to produce some form of legal approach in combating terrorism. one of the more meaningful documents was adopted in barcelona having regard to the euro-mediterranean code of conduct on countering terrorism. the participating countries made no less than 21 obligations to fight terrorism. perhaps this should act as a blueprint and if these obligations are adhered to at least one region will be earnestly addressing this calamity.
madam president, many of our debates regarding fisheries have been centred around sustainability and the importance of finding the right equilibrium between the protection of the marine environment, the protection of fish stock and the viability of the activity. regulations have been set up and fishermen are obliged to abide by these regulations so that an optimum standard is achieved, a standard that would be beneficial to everyone. these regulations have been based on specific statistics gathered from our seas and standards have been set on this information. however, i feel that, unless we tackle illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing with an iron fist, we would be doing a disservice to honest fishermen and restricting their activity at the expense of others who benefit illegally. the line between legal and illicit fishing is sometimes very fine and we need to have a clear-cut definition in this regard in order to avoid misunderstanding. we need an effective control system and a management programme that will be more coherent and specific so as to apply the existing regulations with more accuracy. we must also try to negotiate with our neighbouring states in order to adopt the same policies so that we would have a one-sea, one-policy system, which undoubtedly would be beneficial to all. in order to do this, we must be willing to share our technology with these countries and encourage new partnership agreements. further to this, cooperation between us, the member states, has to be strengthened. proof of the legal origin of fish catches should be compulsory before any content is offloaded in the eu. this should include documents that show that fish have been caught in accordance with rfmo rules. this will be a very important stepping stone in ensuring that our fishermen get the right dues, and that, furthermore, our seas are protected from overfishing. when stocks were plentiful, we would often turn a blind eye to unregulated activity. now, i think, is the time to act before it is too late. no regulation and no law will ever be effective or have any meaning if overfishing renders our seas barren.
on behalf of the pse group. i hope that with today's discussion we are not simply adding to the hot air with emissions, but trying to find solutions to problems. i believe that the do santos report gives us the indications of where we need to go. of course we focus on economic problems but the realization, and this is the main point i want to emphasize is that economic problems eventually turn into social problems, and in many of our countries this oil price crisis, eventually, turned into more suffering for the least of it. to give just one example, in malta, the current affair, the lack of planning on the part of the authorities has led to a 45% surtax on electricity and water bills. i also believe that we need to look beyond the box, beyond the 'framework' that we have been looking at so far. with the new prices, certain solutions that until now did not make economic sense now make economic sense and we have to look at them more than just focusing on the effect. we have to look at the root of the problem. thank you.
in writing. the economic impact of the increase in oil prices is felt much more strongly in a situation like that of malta, where the country is totally dependent on this oil as an energy source. this is a problem that has never been addressed with the urgency needed, although the size of the country allows for more creative solutions. if limited space does not allow the development of alternative large plants, effective tax incentives should be given to those companies and households that want to invest in cleaner technology. due to a lack of planning in the area of oil purchases, maltese and dutch families and businesses are having to pay a surcharge on their electricity and water bills, which is currently 45%. this surtax on such essential services is causing hardship to families, especially the least well-off, and a cost to companies, which is also putting pressure on the farmers. moreover, the continuous fluctuations in these prices make it difficult to plan ahead and are leading to uncertainty. in addition, while the public is being asked to pay more for essential services, there is an unjustified waste of public resources. the european parliament's recommendations point to long-term solutions to this problem. but governments need to plan for such problems, and they are not the first to expect farmers, families and small businesses to pay for their mistakes.
i am asking that the debate on hunting in malta be concluded without a resolution as i feel that this resolution is not necessary and not justified for three reasons. firstly, spring hunting is not legal in itself as european law allows the use of a derogation to allow it. secondly, the use of a derogation for spring hunting was the specific subject of negotiations between malta and the european union during the pre-accession period during the negotiations and there is therefore no reason to reopen this chapter. and thirdly, if the spring hunt is to be rejected, then it should be on scientific grounds and not on the basis of political pressure.
i agree with my colleague simon busuttil; i think that we are talking about an agreement that the european union has made with malta and that this agreement has been approved both by this parliament and by the majority of the maltese and gozitan people in the countries. i think that at this moment it would not be necessary to make a resolution against what has been agreed between the maltese people and the european union because i think we would be sending the wrong message to every european citizen that what the european union has agreed to, is going to pass a little bit of time and the european union itself is trying to stop it. i think this is not the moment to make this resolution.
on behalf of the pse group. the clear result of this work was that we now have a clear timetable for how long a procedure can take on the part of regulators in takeovers, and i think it is a very good result that we have achieved because of mr klinz's excellent work in this area and the work we have done together. of course, as with any compromise, we all wanted different things, but i think it was a very good result what we achieved and, here i agree with mr purvis 100%, we have a number of specific days during which and at the end of which a decision on the takeovers has to be made, and that is the biggest achievement that has been made during these negotiations. i also believe that we have improved the work that the commission has put in place because we are giving the regulators the time they need to do their job. we try in vain to delay a decision for less time when we can finally arrive at a situation where the caterpillar is giving birth to blind cubs. and in this area i believe that regulators, especially the smaller ones with fewer resources, should have all the time necessary to properly assess such important decisions. i think this is a hugely valuable step for the european and transparent perspective in this area, and finally although unfortunately it is not technically possible to include it in this legislation, some of the things we want to look at further ahead are the social aspect and the corporate governance aspect in the area of takeovers. it is not strictly related to this area of legislation but it is a point that our citizens are asking us to look at more and more closely.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank mr libicki for giving me the opportunity to state the commission's position on the hunting of birds in malta. this is a matter of compliance with community law. the directive on the protection of wild birds expressly prohibits the hunting of migratory birds on their return to breeding grounds, which is included in annex ii to the directive. as mr libicki said, this spring hunt is the worst kind of hunting. article 9 of the directive provides for the possibility of derogations by member states. however, this possibility is only in exceptional circumstances and is subject to the very strict criteria set out in this article. in this case, the possibility of derogations is only really possible if no other satisfactory solutions are offered. in 2004 the maltese government decided to exercise the right to apply a derogation for the hunting of the stork and the boar during their spring migration. however, the information provided by the maltese authorities to the commission did not show that this derogation was in accordance with the conditions of the birds directive. in particular, the maltese authorities were not able to establish that there were no other satisfactory solutions. nor that the spring hunt is conducted under strictly supervised conditions. for these reasons, the commission concluded that the derogation for 2004 was in breach of articles 7 and 9 of the birds directive. in july 2006, an infringement procedure was initiated under article 226 of the treaty and the commission has not yet received a formal response from the maltese authorities. the case in question concerns the derogation for the year 2004. however, the commission is aware that malta allowed spring hunting in the following years as well, i.e. 2005 and 2006, and appears to have allowed it in the current year 2007. the continuation of spring hunting all these years in violation of the law is a systematic case of poor application of the birds directive. therefore, in order to broaden the scope of the current infringement procedure, we intend to send the maltese authorities a supplementary warning letter, which will concern the now generalised practice of the maltese authorities in all these years since 2004. the commission is expected to take a decision at its meeting on 21 march. if malta does not comply with the birds directive, the commission will continue the legal procedure until the end. however, we are not yet at that stage and i remain hopeful that the maltese authorities will comply with community legislation. within the limits of its powers the commission is taking and will continue to take the necessary measures to ensure that malta, like any other member state, complies with the birds directive.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. other i would like to start by reminding the commissioner present here that during the negotiations between malta and the european union, the european commission acknowledged in writing, and i have the document of 27 september 2002 here before me, that after accession, malta would use a derogation to allow hunting in the spring. the commission now knows that malta's negotiations were not easy negotiations because the decision whether or not to join the european union was a decision that divided an entire country, and malta did not use the derogation on a whim. and so now we don't expect the commissioner to come here and the first time malta applied for a derogation to tell her 'now you can't use it'. how did the commission acknowledge in writing in the negotiations that the derogation could be used and the first time it is used tell us that we cannot use it? and how is the commission now saying that there are other alternatives to the spring hunt? why did you not make this speech during the negotiations? these are the things we want to hear from you mr commissioner. now i agree with you that the derogation does not mean that you can do whatever you want, absolutely. and let me tell you what measures malta is taking to tackle hunting abuse. firstly, hunting in spring is only allowed on two species. before membership was left to 32 different species; 32 to two. second, the spring season is reduced by 18 days. third and most importantly, they have sharply increased the penalties for abusers: the penalties for non-compliance are: a fine of € 14 000, two years' imprisonment and permanent withdrawal of the hunting licence for a repeat offender, i.e. a second time, a red card, out. i hope the commission will recognise that these are positive steps, because unfortunately the commissioner has not mentioned anything about these steps. so we condemn the abuser, but the abuser should not be joined by the non-abuser. and so i don't agree with those who go to the other extreme and want to stop the hunt altogether. and the commission, i conclude, must be careful that, under any political pressure, it does not ignore what has been agreed in the negotiations.
this resolution before us today could set a very serious and dangerous precedent. this resolution is suggesting that an agreement which has already been approved by both the european union, this parliament and the maltese people in a referendum and a general election be broken. this resolution goes beyond the fact that one can be for or against hunting, because if this resolution passes we are facing a moment where we are sending a message to european citizens that the word of the european union cannot be relied upon. such resolutions undermine the credibility of the european institutions. what guarantee do we have, as maltese, that the european union will keep its word on the rest of the negotiations? what guarantee does every european citizen have that what his country has negotiated with the european union will continue to be honoured? the political groups within parliament have every right to push their agenda forward, but this must be done within the parameters of fairness and no agreement can be broken for the simple reason that some people have different aims in their political agenda. if there is one person who does not want there to be poaching, that person is me. and i would also be the first to condemn the violent acts that took place at a protest in malta. but if we want to talk about the barbaric things that are happening in the countries of the european union, i can mention the things that are happening in spain, the things that are happening in italy, where illegal hunting is happening in the rest of the european union, and so i am saying let's fight illegal hunting in the european union, so no, but let's fight it everywhere in the european union and not just start from malta. what was promised during the negotiations must stand and i urge my colleagues, including those in my political group, to be committed to protecting what is rightfully the european citizen's. i quote my colleague martin schultz, the president of the european socialist group, who this morning in a different context told us that we must honour every treaty we sign. this should also be done in relation to malta, respecting what we agreed and agreed on.
we believe that all member state governments including that of malta have an obligation to see that environmental regulations, including hunting, are in line with the union directives and with the treaties of accession and any other agreements that have been signed. we also agree that the authorities must demand that these same directives and laws be observed by everyone, and we cannot in any way agree with a situation where illegal hunting is practised. for this reason, one of the amendments proposed by the socialist group calls for more transparency and for the commission and the maltese government to publish their technical positions on the subject, including the minutes of decisions taken at meetings held or to be held. this becomes more relevant when one remembers that before membership of the union, the maltese government had said that it had negotiated, with the european commission, a derogation on hunting in the spring. although other political forces and the civil society sector had expressed serious doubts about the interpretation given by the maltese government, for reasons known only to the european commission, it chose at the time to remain rather silent, and did little to clarify matters. unfortunately this position has helped to increase the possibility of confusion on this issue. more transparency at that time, from both parties involved, would have resulted in less ambivalence and less prospect of financial repercussions that could unfairly burden the whole of maltese society. this is also a question of credibility.
it is clearer than ever that the maltese government has been playing with the environmentalist, the hunter and the trapper, when before malta's accession to the european union it tried to give the impression that it had achieved everything and for everyone. environmental regulations shall comply with the directives of the european union and the terms of the treaty of accession. this is clear and we have said it for our part: the maltese government is intent on attacking the people. but commissioners, before you say yes, the fault is yours too. when before the referendum on membership the maltese government came out to play the trumpet that they had agreed with you for a derogation on hunting in the spring, you remained silent. when the labour party, we, as well as some environmental and other hunters' associations, expressed doubts about this call for achievement, you remained silent - you who are mostly from malta. the least you can do now is to publish all the technical positions, both as the maltese government and as the commission, because it is not easy to say that things are public. there are certain documents which, to this day, no matter how hard we search, cannot be handed over to us. we find references to them but it's like looking in some huge maze. these documents must be scrutinised by everyone, and the minutes of every meeting held, including a recent meeting in brussels where everyone left, must be kept. god bless victory song i can't understand how everyone can come out victory song from the same meeting and other meetings that can be held, they must be published, otherwise they will allow people to continue to be mocked.
it is clear that even today, the commission has been saying that there is a clear breach of european laws. my colleagues in the other party are saying that there is a letter saying that the government can make a derogation and it is not for nothing that everyone feels confused if there are even four people here and we are not even agreeing on the facts. and as my two colleagues from the pse have said, we need more transparency and at least agreeing on the facts. the problem is that in reality there is ambiguity and confusion, but it is not due to an accidental incident but i think that they left things as they are because although for hunters and trappers it is a passion, although for birdlife it is a mission, but the issue was ultimately a political one. who will bring the votes of those areas that can affect the performance of the results both in the referendum and in the elections. and so i ask that, as my colleagues have said, things be made clear, in a way that everyone knows and understands, when the negotiations between malta and europe took place, exactly what the facts are. and i conclude by saying that if we can't even agree on these, think about how much we'll agree on a solution to this issue.
as commissioner mendelson rightly said, the mediterranean is a common challenge that belongs to us all. and i think the commissioner has really put his finger on the right button because if we do not appreciate that we have a common challenge here then we cannot start tackling the challenge, think and see to it. i feel that, as we have done in europe, to build europe, also in the mediterranean, we must first greatly strengthen cooperation and even economic integration, and then the other things follow almost by themselves. and to strengthen economic cooperation we need to focus more, of course, on the need to achieve our free trade area targets by 2010. but we cannot even move towards a free trade area without taking into account the negative consequences that this can bring, for example on employment and housing, on the standard of living, on social development and even on the environment. to mitigate these consequences we also need to commit ourselves in a more financially inclusive and accessible way to the mediterranean countries, such as the bank for the mediterranean initiative. i very much agree with this initiative and hope that we will have a positive turnaround soon. this initiative will help financially, but also send an important political message. there are many other issues, of course i do not have time, but i will mention immigration and also the water resources in the region. we know that without water there is no life and long-term investment in the water sector is still very lacking in the region. relations in the mediterranean require a lot of patience and perseverance. i am optimistic that despite the difficulties, we will still succeed in building a zone of prosperity in the mediterranean, just as we built it in europe, stone by stone, after the war. now we need to maintain patience and perseverance.
it is true that the barcelona process was too ambitious. but it is also true that for many years we have given the mediterranean less importance than it should have and it seems that we suddenly have to make up for what we have lost, perhaps because it was too ambitious. when i heard commissioner mendelson i was very pleased that he painted in such an eloquent way a positive aspect and pointed out many things including exports and trade. when you look at the report though, you see a slightly different picture. the problems, no matter where they are, are everywhere - finance, industry, development - to name a few. but there are certainly relations such as energy, the problem of immigration, where together we are trying to find a way to live with each other better. but of course, the most important thing and i conclude, is that we have to have trust in each other. if we have trust, on both sides of the mediterranean, we can certainly start to build and continue to build on the positive between us.
member of the commission. mr president, islands and other territories with natural or specific constraints are very important to the commission in terms of ensuring territorial cohesion, developing cross-border cooperation – usually with third countries, tourism, culture and other issues. while acknowledging that a cross-sectoral approach may be useful, cohesion policy aims to play a central role in dealing with the specific problems of these territories. in the draft 2007-2013 cohesion policy general regulation, issued in july 2004, the commission specifically proposed granting a co-financing rate top-up to these regions. unfortunately, this proposal was not finally adopted by the council in the final version of the regulation approved in july 2006 and which is now in force, as you are aware. however, the commission will ensure, during the ongoing negotiations on the cohesion policy intervention for 2007-2013, that the specific constraints of these territories are duly taken into account in the corresponding programmes and that suitable measures are programmed to tackle them. in addition, the commission is now preparing the fourth cohesion report to be published in may, which will contain a comprehensive analysis of the state of play and trends in territorial cohesion in the eu, including islands and regions with natural handicaps. likewise the commission intends to continue upgrading work within the espon programme in order to obtain more suitable indicators and more updated information on these territories. at the same time, the commission would point out that statistical data for islands or other territories that are nuts ii or nuts iii regions are already available. gathering statistical information for smaller territories is certainly more difficult, but in fact 95% of the european island population, outermost regions excluded, live in nuts ii or nuts iii regions. turning to the practical implementation of the notion of territorial cohesion, despite the lack of an explicit legal base as provided by the constitutional treaty, the council already agreed in 2004 in rotterdam to introduce the territorial dimension into the lisbon process. it also started to develop the territorial agenda and this document, which aims at presenting the challenges, objectives and policy recommendations for territorial cohesion, is due to be adopted in may 2007 in leipzig. moreover, the community strategy guidelines on cohesion adopted by the council last october include a specific chapter on the territorial dimension of cohesion policy. the commission is now working to ensure their practical implementation in the programming documents that are now being negotiated. the commission is very much in favour of promoting euro-regions or similar structures in order to manage cross-border transnational and interregional cooperation. these bodies could be particularly suited to islands and other regions with natural handicaps and, in addition, the commission encourages these territories to make use of the brand new european grouping for territorial cooperation in order to facilitate the management of the corresponding programmes. with regard to state aid, it may be that regional investment aid is not the best instrument to tackle local problems in islands. i believe that the islands’ main problems can be tackled more effectively with, for example, horizontal instruments. our state aid rules already allow for many forms of aid. for example, our rules on services of general economic interest allow compensation for the provision of local public services, including passenger transport services. secondly, our new guidelines on risk capital and our framework for research development and innovation offer new opportunities to support young, innovative companies, with extra bonuses for small and medium-sized enterprises.in some cases, the support levels needed by small islands will not be counted as aids at all. under the new de minimis regulation, aid of up to eur 200 000, granted over any period of 3 years will not be counted as aid. investment for all kinds of public infrastructure can be financed. they do not have an aid element. moreover, the specific situation of islands is effectively taken into account in the new regional aid guidelines. under the new form of aid to help business start-ups, a 5% bonus is given to small islands. i think that these examples really show how, through our state aid reform process, we are making the rules more predictable and reducing the administrative burden of state aid notification, and that was what you were asking for in the interests of island regions and all other stakeholders.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i would like to start by congratulating my colleague francesco musotto on the report he has prepared. this is a very important report, especially for us island members. very important because it gives the islands a voice. it is important to give the islands a voice because at present the islands are not given enough voice by the european union, and this report, therefore, is giving them a voice and is giving them importance. and i am glad to hear commissioner kroes say that for the european commission islands are important. but what we want, commissioner, is for islands to be dealt with in all the different policies of the european union and not just through the lens of regional policy. you are for example the commissioner responsible for competition and as you said well there are state aid rules and these rules are not yet flexible enough for the islands. rules that are made for the whole european territory are not necessarily flexible enough for the islands, and i urge you to look at these rules, to look at the islands and see how they are applied more flexibly to them. point one of the report; mentions the importance of the commission regularly preparing a report on the needs of the islands i am referring to paragraph 10 report on the needs of the islands and how their needs should be addressed. i expect the commission to make this report and i will rely on it to do so. a good report, which i am sure the islands following us here today will appreciate.
in writing. – one of the contexts where malta is concerned relates to illegal immigration: ‘islands are in the front line of defence against this problem; all are suffering under the weight of illegal immigration’. in fact, the commission’s decision to set up four funds is giving visibility to the concept of ‘solidarity in action’. in the case of gozo, malta’s sister island, we have a scenario of double insularity. the commission has highlighted the special situation of islands in the guidelines on (i) national regional aid for 2007-2013 and on (ii) state aid and risk capital for small and medium-sized undertakings. but that does not address the issue where fuel and energy costs adversely affect the competitiveness of the communities living in such islands. the economic activities prevalent in islands, notably tourism, agriculture, fisheries and crafts, need special attention. tourism represents one of the primary sources of wealth creation in islands with spin offs on other sectors – fisheries, agriculture, crafts. but what importance do we give tourism in the european parliament? perhaps the prevalent thought is that it is a natural issue, as one very senior commissioner put it. on the contrary, it is about time that the european parliament set up a separate committee on tourism, as at present it is part of the transport committee and hardly appears on any agenda.
in writing. – the report has quite a number of recommendations that go a long way to addressing a host of disadvantages which are very specific to small islands. we expect the commission to take on board and implement the recommendation outlined in mr musotto’s report. islands – whether in the outermost regions or not – suffer from natural geographical limitations that severely affect the inhabitants’ lives on a daily basis, both economically and socially. small islands like the island of gozo in malta are the first to feel the effects of high transport costs, lack of investment, problems of communication, high rates of unemployment, social separation, and a more restrictive choice in the opportunities available. in theory it is well recognised and accepted in the eu that islands, especially small ones, have to be assisted to overcome these natural disadvantages. it is time to translate the well meaning objectives into concrete action.
mr president, for purposes of clarification, i wish to add the words ‘at the time’ after the word ‘commission’, so now amendment 7 would read, ‘notes that prior to the accession to the european union, the maltese government stated that it had negotiated a derogation on spring hunting with the commission; regrets that the despite the fact that other political forces and segments of civil society in malta had challenged the maltese government’s statements, the commission at the time opted to remain silent on the subject, thus bringing about a potentially ambivalent situation’.
mr president, our group wanted to request a roll-call vote on amendment 12, but unfortunately we failed to do so in time. i therefore ask the house to allow a roll-call vote on amendment 12, even though we did not request it in time. i am sure that my colleague monica frassoni will not object. (laughter)
i would like to give an explanation of vote on the resolution on hunting in the spring in malta. i voted against this resolution because i feel that it was an unnecessary resolution and it was also a disproportionate resolution. there was no need for this resolution considering that discussions are currently underway between the european commission and the maltese authorities on this issue. there was no need for it considering that malta has made important steps forward in tackling hunting abuses and there was no need for it considering that in the negotiations for malta's membership of the european union, the european commission acknowledged in writing and not in words that malta will use a derogation to allow hunting in the spring.
on behalf of the pse group. frequently referred to a report prepared by me, and approved by this parliament, which deals extensively with this area. the report which is now parliament's position summarises an analysis of a situation which is becoming increasingly acute. among the most important points is the fact that different supervisory practices and levels exist at national level. from a european perspective this means reduced market efficiency and higher operating costs for institutions operating in different countries. the report asks whether the current system ensures effective supervision of large groups operating in different countries and sectors. we also called for a more detailed examination of the european society model at the level of prudential stability and crisis management structures. we agreed on the need for an effective crisis management system at european level. the way the market is developing means that a crisis, even if it may initially affect only one country, can quickly spread to other countries. the response to such a crisis is becoming more complicated due to the large number of institutions involved and the lack of clarity about their role and work. the european consumers and investors are the ones who suffer most from the lack of action in this area. it was in this framework that parliament agreed that a committee of experts should be set up to study these implications and report back with their recommendations. i now know that there are different opinions on this initiative and the form it should actually take. however, i believe that it is time to have a full debate with the participation of all the institutions, not everyone trying to shut others out, on the shape of european financial market supervision and i think we need to stress more the urgency of needing to debate this point today rather than tomorrow.
the post-study construction of this marsascala plant is considered by everyone, including officials of malta's environmental authority, to be a farce. a process which ignores a number of articles of the terms of reference and infringes a number of european union directives. the technology study is still unknown while the comparative analysis on alternative sites is considered to be frivolous, flimsy and even biased. the socio-economic study on residents was not carried out thoroughly and in accordance with the terms of reference while the environmental health study was completely ignored. this is when the plant will be built in a residential area, only 250 metres away from people.
mr president, i agree with the rapporteur that the institutions should base their estimates on well-defined needs. this should result in better efficiency of resources, thus avoiding duplication of functions. in this respect, we expect the final proposal for an interinstitutional agreement for the two committees, the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee, to be reached in 2007, ensuring equitable governance of the joint departments. prima facie, it seems reasonable to request that parliament should retain the same budgeting level as in 2007. however, we should ensure that parliament’s financial independence is not compromised in any way, especially as the members’ statute, amounting to over eur 100 million, comes into force in 2009. the benchmark of 20% of heading five should be retained as the budget’s upper limit. this threshold should provide us with the necessary stability and discipline when formulating the 2008 budget. finally, i wish to express my appreciation to mr itälä for his report.
mr president, i first wish to join my colleagues in thanking mr belet for the wonderful job he has done. obviously, we all have our minor or major reservations on the text submitted, but he has made a good job of coordinating the work of all the committees. i should also like to stress another point: in this area we are lucky to have a trusted partner in uefa. the way that organisation has worked in the past has shown that we can trust it to deliver on the goods it talks about regularly. therefore we have a partner we can rely on. i will focus on only one sector, which is that of television rights. the digital era should be about more choice for consumers. unfortunately, television viewers in many of our member states are faced with less choice and have to pay for things they used to get for free before. with our report we are sending a clear signal to the authorities that we need to strike a balance between pay tv and free-to-air tv.
in writing. in malta, farmers and peasants are another victim of the nationalist government's deception. prior to malta's accession to the european union, the maltese government had given the impression to these categories that if there was a problem due to the importation of foreign products during the first five years of membership, the government would have the right to stop the entry of these products. this is done through the so-called safeguard clause. the labour party had said at the outset that this was not true. we have explained that the safeguard clause can only be used in exceptional and very limited circumstances. above all, the maltese government cannot decide on its own to use this clause, but must apply to the european commission, and it is the commission that makes the decision on this. now the maltese government has changed the disc. despite the continuing complaints of farmers and peasants, the maltese government is saying that it wants to apply to the european commission to use the safeguard clause and that there is no case strong enough to do so. the commission is saying the same thing. time is proving the labour party right.
we recently voted on hunting and trapping in malta. the socialist group representing the maltese in this parliament abstained and i think there was some criticism about this abstention because they did not understand why it happened. we, for our part, proposed amendments which, in turn, gave a completely different face to the resolution before this parliament. for our part, after these amendments were passed, which had in fact reduced this sentence which seemed too harsh to us, we obviously could not vote against our own amendments, because it did not make sense. i thank you, mr president, for this opportunity.
in writing. my vote for the andrejevs report on the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and neighbouring countries (2006 - 2009) is in favour of a coherent strategy against this huge and tragic problem. i wish to qualify that my vote should not be interpreted as an endorsement of the practice of abortion.
in writing. – no ship in distress should be refused entry to port or safe mooring. first of all because even one human life is too precious and secondly this is the only way to limit environmental and ecological disasters. thirdly, the accommodation of the ship in distress may give rise to serious damage and costs for the port in question. a compensation scheme has to be devised for ports and places of refuge. although a possibility for compensation may exist through the proposal for a directive on civil liability and financial guarantees of ship-owners, port authorities may be reluctant to accept ships in distress in the instance of poorly insured ships and even so cover would not extend to compensation for economic loss suffered by the port. that is why a compensation scheme is so important. more so, it would encourage the decision-makers at the port authority not to procrastinate and immediately admit ships in distress without the hassle and time-wasting of checking on the validity of insurance and financial instruments in such emergency scenarios.
thank you mr president, often when we talk about human rights, one of the first things that comes to mind are third world countries and we do well to take action to see what can be done to ensure that the citizens of these countries are protected and given the dignity they deserve. but i cannot help but be concerned when these rights are being trampled on in countries of the european union or in other countries which wish to become members of the european union. in a country that aspires to join the european union, for example, a few days ago, hundreds of innocent people were brutally killed for their religious beliefs. this is unacceptable and must be condemned. the european union must be firm and stop any aid to any country that violates the rights of persons belonging to minorities or to any country that does not recognize and respect minorities within it, and to any country that does not abide by the human rights charter. we must act immediately and it is impossible that in 2007 we will still find dictators who deny the rights of freedom of expression as is unfortunately happening in venezuela. ethnic minorities cannot be ignored, race, colour and beliefs of every human being must always be respected. we must work to ensure that no one is left behind and that no one is allowed to abuse these sacrosanct rights. it cannot be, however, and more importantly, that the resolutions adopted by this parliament are ignored by the commission. resolutions adopted by this parliament, the only institution whose representatives are democratically elected, resolutions which must convey a message and which the commission and the council must always take up without ignoring, as has unfortunately happened in the past, resolutions adopted by this institution. finally, mr president, i too would like to congratulate my colleague simon coveney on the wonderful report we have before us on what is being done in this debate.
mr president, i first wish to join with my colleagues in thanking mr deprez the rapporteur for his excellent work and in particular for completing this report in time for first reading. i warmly welcome this law because it is a solidarity instrument. coming from a southern member state i welcome it even more, because i appreciate that solidarity does not come easy and it does not come cheap. this law means that member states are now binding themselves to assist other countries that face difficulty. as mr deprez said, this solidarity is compulsory and not optional. this makes it real solidarity. it is not charity, because charity is voluntary. this is a binding commitment. thanks to this law, countries facing emergency situations on immigration will finally start to feel that they are no longer completely on their own. therefore this law is a good step forward. however, on its own it is not enough to overcome the challenge of illegal immigration. we must, therefore, avoid raising public expectations that this law will solve everything: it will not. therefore we must also do more to strengthen the southern borders of the union. last november the european commission issued a communication on strengthening the southern maritime borders and i call on the commission to press on with the initiatives listed in this communication. let us not forget that external border control is in the interests of all member states and not just the countries facing difficulties and once it is in everybody’s interest, it must also be everybody’s responsibility – a shared responsibility.
in writing. – existing external border control surveillance lacks the appropriate and sufficient resources to effectively combat illegal immigration and trafficking of human beings. this problem does not pertain to one country or one region but to all member states. in this context mr deprez’s report highlights the various shortcomings and addresses on the real issues surrounding the deployment of the rapid border intervention teams. admittedly the creation of this rapid intervention team is a positive step in the right direction and therefore all the appropriate funds should be allocated in order to make this project function in a viable manner. the effective management of external border control only resolves a small part of this fundamental issue. unfortunately i feel the institutions, especially the council, are not tackling this tragic problem with the necessary commitment and urgency it deserves. the serious application of the principle of burden-sharing is far from been implemented in a concrete and tangible manner.
thank you mr chairman. i wanted to talk about regional and housing policy. the treaty does not invest europe with specific powers on housing, but erdf regulations for 2007-2013 make housing eligible for the funds in a number of cases. the votes were important as a 'pattern' because of four dimensions: the social one, the lack of decent affordable housing as in my country, the environmental one, strategic development for housing in cities, and not as recently happened in malta with the extensions of development, energy, energy security, light and gas at affordable prices not as we have in malta exaggerated prices, and finally, integration, an integrated process to improve the quality of life, and not as is happening in a place in marsaskala, where the recycling plant is being built. thank you.
in writing. the issue of regional policy is one which affects directly the maltese archipelago. i am of the belief that a whole country and not part of it may be eligible for the status of a region when special circumstances so dictate. this should preclude that in addition, within that country, certain remote or isolated areas are given additional considerations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. thank you mr president. today we are sending the clearest signal yet that where the laws of the market are distorted, and where the consumer is not getting what he deserves, the european union, and in particular this parliament, is ready to take action. we have already heard how much the prices will fall, more than half, personally, and as a group we believe we could have saved more, but with all the price and defects this is the compromise we will try because if we lose more time, the only ones who will suffer are the consumers. today's is a significant win indeed for consumers. it has provided them with the most important weapons - information and transparency. now, as soon as a consumer arrives in another european country, he will automatically receive a message informing him of the price he is paying. in addition, operators will have to provide a free telephone line, with free information, in order to provide assistance and information in this area. there will also be specific aid for people who are visually impaired. we want this regulation to increase, not reduce, competition, aware that there are small and independent operators who are worried that they may end up in a disadvantaged position. we therefore urged the commission to examine and report on the situation of these operators. i move on to what is considered the most crucial point. it is a well-known fact that i am one of the most insistent that the european tariff should apply automatically to all consumers. on the other hand, the council, i would say, insists with equal force that the consumer should make a request to the operator to be granted this tariff. i will not reopen the arguments about which proposal was more favourable to consumers because i think the answer is obvious. but we accepted this compromise firstly because without it we would not have had a regulation and secondly there is a statement by the commission during the negotiations which said that it is positive that about 80% of european consumers will automatically benefit from this european tariff. then for the other 20%, many of them already pay a price that seems to be well in line with the european tariff and include mostly businesses and people with specific contracts. this means that the most vulnerable consumers will be protected. it is worth noting, and i conclude here, the letter sent by commissioner reding, in which the national regulators and the commission will monitor the process by which it will be determined which consumers will automatically benefit from the european tariff. this is a very important process and we are now showing that this parliament is in a position to respond. (chapter)
thank you mr. president and staff. i wanted to explain that about work and its decency, our constitution is based entirely on work. i would also like to point out that labour governments have always thought about the importance of raising the living and working standards of workers in our country. it is important to note that almost everything where the worker improved his work was a cause for responsibility and was instigated by labour governments. i would also like to thank the unions of malta, especially the general workers union, for the work they have always done in favour of maltese workers. thank you.
the president of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am aware of the problem, especially since we are also getting it through the media. the people on the ground also know what this means for the refugees and for those who have to take care of them. i have already said in april, in connection with a question, that the protection of the external borders is first of all the responsibility of the member state concerned, but that frontex can be called upon to provide assistance in a particular situation, and that emergency teams can also be set up. this depends on the interaction between the member states concerned and the frontex agency.
the question was about the atlantic, but i would like to bring to your attention the human tragedy, which is taking place as we speak, in the mediterranean, where last weekend just one person survived from a boat carrying 29 people 75 nautical miles to the south of malta. yesterday 24 people were saved at sea and one person remained unaccounted for after a boat capsized. also yesterday, another boat with 53 people on board went missing. it simply disappeared and could not be traced. my question is: why have the frontex patrols not started already in the mediterranean? when will they be started? and what is the presidency doing about this?
thank you, president. over the years, the kashmir conflict has left thousands of victims, thousands of people rejected by their families, and thousands more who have had to leave their country to seek a better life elsewhere. i think we can all agree that it is time for the european union to do its utmost to find a lasting solution without violence, a solution that benefits everyone. i think we can all agree that after many years of uncertainty, bloodshed and broken promises this is not an easy task, even if on an official level there seems to be a basis for consensus. we must ensure that what has been agreed so far is not lost and that the permanent dialogue between india and pakistan is given our full support and assistance. both india and pakistan should be willing to continue to build on confidence-building measures and to continue to allow people to cross the line of control, a move that has been very well received after so many years of division. i am sure that the european union will give its full support to any initiative that can bring peace, even if this process may take a long time and move at a very slow pace. as the commissioner said, on a humanitarian basis we must ensure that people in refugee camps are given all the humanitarian aid especially after the disastrous earthquake that left so many people in a state of displacement. all aid should be increased and long-standing camps should be given some form of official status. i strongly urge the authorities of india and pakistan to honour their obligations and give the people of kashmir the dignity they deserve. a dignity to which every person in the world is entitled. last but not least we must take action to protect the unique history of this people. india, pakistan and the kashmiri people should look to what unites them. only then can the peace process be successful. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for all the work she has done to make this report a success.
mr president, it is clear that the starting point for any treaty revision exercise must be the current text of the constitution for a simple reason: it was signed by all member states. surely if a signature means something then they have to show commitment to it, and it was also ratified by 18 member states. from that starting point we should seek a compromise that takes into account three factors. the first is the concerns of those countries that have rejected it, and the concerns of those countries that have still not ratified it. the second is that we should take into account some mistakes that we may have made – and yes, we may have made some mistakes along the way. for instance, we may have gone too fast and too far in signing a constitution just five months after the greatest and biggest enlargement of the european union, or by appearing too ambitious not least by the designation of the treaty as a constitution when originally our mandate was a mere simplification. thirdly and finally, the point we should take into account is that the compromise must also take into account the new reality in which we live and the new challenges that we face and which may not have been sufficiently taken into account by the constitution. i have in mind, for instance, a common immigration policy and a common approach to climate change. yes, the germany presidency, and the portuguese presidency after it, have a fine balancing act to strike and we wish them luck. they certainly need it!
in writing. – the process for a constitutional treaty was stalled through the referenda in france and the netherlands. some member states continued with the ratification process, others did not. we went into a period of reflection. today the constitutional treaty is once again gaining momentum. the roadmap is indicating a constitution by 2009, before the next elections for the european parliament. when the constitution was rejected, everyone had their opinions. one which appeared throughout was that many citizens of europe felt alienated. first of all, a european constitution is essential if one believes in the european process. secondly, the citizens of the european union member states must feel that they belong to the eu entity in the same way that they feel nationals of their respective states. thirdly, it is essential that these citizens know what the constitution is all about. i have listed these priorities, since not all the european member states share the same enthusiasm for the process. many europeans do not feel citizens of the eu in parallel with their individual nationality. finally, most europeans are still unaware of the pros and cons of the constitution. unless we earnestly address these issues within two years we may well end up in the same position we are in today.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to summarize briefly because we are all in agreement on the objective. i can understand your disappointment, mr lambsdorff, with what you have said at the end. but you're not the only one who's disappointed, we are, too, because we had very different expectations. i share the view of commissioner ferrero-waldner, who said that the council has been in existence for a year, we had a different idea of it all, but we did not want to break the staff over the council just yet. i would urge that we do not now drive a wedge between the parliaments and the government. this is not going to get us anywhere. on the contrary! while there may be some areas where improvement is needed, the european union - which includes national parliaments, the european parliament, governments and the commission - must come together and send a clear signal that we cannot allow ourselves to be divided, as we take human rights too seriously. i can only hope that we will make some progress in the second year, although after the first year we will have to draw a sobering interim balance. but i am campaigning for us to do so together with you, who are very committed to the cause of human rights. i hope that we will then be able to draw a somewhat more positive conclusion in the next reporting year than we can do today.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it is not easy for us as the european union to really strengthen our human rights standards today in the un. why would you do that? we have few permanent allies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this list is not exhaustive. but we are often faced with a bloc of g77 countries, and a confrontational approach usually does not achieve much. we must learn from this. what's this? what's this? what can we do? we can, for example, strengthen the special rapporteur, support the high commissioner for human rights, carry out universal inspections, but we can also condemn the most serious cases and denounce the most serious violations. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. i often think of it as a matter of being able to respond and react more quickly to developments. for example, from the very beginning i had called for some kind of alarm mechanism. i very much hope that we can gradually move in that direction. in any event, in the longer term, the achievement of the objectives of the human rights council requires the implementation of a new approach to human rights within the united nations. the transition to this new approach was also the heart of the resolution establishing this new council. it states that the council's work 'shall be guided by the principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity and non-selectivity, and by constructive international dialogue and cooperation'. of course, we must also be aware that there will never be an apolitical un forum. we must therefore not only defend our values, but also, of course, all our interests.
the president of the council. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it quite clear on behalf of the presidency that the recent reports of migrants who have been stranded and lost their lives in the mediterranean, the reports of tragedies that have taken place there, remind us of the responsibility we have as member states in this area. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the right to education is respected. this principle is not only enshrined in a number of international agreements, but it is also consistent with our common understanding of the values on which the european union is founded. apart from the question of jurisdiction, there is clearly a political responsibility of the european union, and we want to face this responsibility together. the presidency has therefore decided, in agreement with the commission, to hold a debate on this problem in the council of ministers at the next meeting of the council of justice and home affairs ministers on 12 june. we cannot ignore the fact that there have been and still are problems in the interpretation and application of international conventions. we must recognize as member states the responsibility we have to prevent such human tragedies, and the hague programme rightly emphasizes the need for greater cooperation between all states and the need for solidarity and shared responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the criminal law of the past. it is therefore important that we also achieve better cooperation with countries of origin and transit as part of a comprehensive approach to solving the migration problem. it is necessary to further strengthen this cooperation in the framework of the political dialogue on migration issues with the governments of these countries, in particular also in the framework of the euromed partnership and the follow-up to the eu-africa migration conferences in rabat and tripoli. we believe that the efforts made in recent months, the discussions held in all the council meetings under the finnish and german presidencies, have laid the first foundations for the european union to be able to deal with these tragedies in a better and more convincing way in the interests of the people affected.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council, mr peter altmeier, has said a great deal, and i share his view, and i shall certainly emphasize a highly political point: the need to tackle the issue of immigration by combining the need to prevent human trafficking and all forms of illegality with the absolute need for solidarity, and solidarity means first and foremost saving lives in danger. the risk of losing even one human life, as has been rightly said and as is emphasized in our joint declaration, also puts aside the strictly legal questions of the application, which must be rigorous and scrupulous, of the international conventions on the law of the sea. first, we must save every human life in danger. solidarity is not just about that, of course. solidarity is at the heart of the overall approach that the european commission is developing, following the unanimous support of the european council last december and in close cooperation this semester with the german presidency of the european union. solidarity first and foremost between the member states of the european union, which means that every member state of the union, even those that believe they are less affected by the daily drama of the migratory flow, must understand that the problem is also theirs and concerns the whole of the european union, no one excluded. the decision to patrol the atlantic ocean to support spain, which would otherwise have to face a huge migratory flow alone in the canary islands, or to patrol the mediterranean to meet the needs of countries such as malta or cyprus, the smallest mediterranean countries in the union, not to mention the largest, is therefore clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the first chapter of solidarity between the member states. there is also a financial aspect to solidarity: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am obliged to appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, with the usual sincerity. this european parliament continues to hold in reserve the 12.7 million euro which is needed now, not in a week's time, to enable frontex missions to continue. i respect the decisions of this parliament, but i say quite frankly that if the reserve, which will be examined around 24-25 june, is not dissolved until the end of this month, we risk having to suspend the frontex mission in the central mediterranean and the canary islands for lack of funds. we need immediate action to unlock funds that are available but in reserve. there is another theme that concerns solidarity: the commitment to third countries. we are committed to working more closely with countries of origin and transit. we have made it very clear that we want an effective contribution and are ready to help the countries of origin with a flow of legal, regular and accompanied immigration. i made a clear proposal on this subject two weeks ago. at the same time we ask for the support of the countries of origin and transit to prevent human trafficking and to explain very clearly to those who want to cross the ocean or the mediterranean that they are not going to fortune, but to grave risk. the first thing that is needed is political cooperation, not police cooperation, to create the conditions in the countries of origin for even clearer information, which is currently lacking on this subject. on the contrary, europe is ready to welcome those who want to work honestly and in accordance with the law, and who are needed, as we all know, in many member states where there is a shortage of labour. this is another aspect of solidarity. there is also an important solidarity in welcoming immigrants, including illegal ones. i am convinced that every member state has a duty to do everything possible to save lives at sea, but it is also necessary that the other member states realize that we cannot simply place the burden of taking in all the migrants rescued in the middle of the mediterranean by maltese ships on malta, to give an example. solidarity is needed, and also a presumption of agreement, of political reasoning, to identify where we can take the immigrants who arrive in the most exposed countries. this is another expression of solidarity: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is another area where we must reach agreement in principle, which unfortunately does not yet exist. i think that at the next council of ministers we shall have to deal with another question: who has responsibility for patrolling in search and rescue areas on the high seas which are the responsibility of third countries? the case of libya was mentioned. under international conventions, each country has an open sea area for which it has responsibility for search and rescue on the high seas. what happens if a non-european country like libya fails to meet its obligation to search and rescue at sea? how can we europeans intervene in that area? who takes responsibility? these are rules which must be established and which do not yet exist, the problem is the application of international conventions and not european laws. but the time has come to deal with this issue at european level and i think it would be appropriate to start discussing this too at the council of ministers next week. finally, what is the responsibility and solidarity for the first reception of immigrants who arrive and must be received in conditions of human dignity, which are inalienable and non-negotiable? who is responsible and how do we divide the tasks among the member states? can we imagine once again that a small country in the middle of the mediterranean can take care of everything? it would not be an exercise in solidarity between member states and we will have to deal with this aspect too. the european union can do a lot in this respect: may contribute to the financing and organisation of return operations in the countries of origin, respecting the rules of absolute dignity of each person to be returned. of course, every immigrant, even if he is illegal, has the full right to respect for his human dignity, but we cannot overlap if there are member states which refuse to do their part. this is the solidarity i am referring to, and these are the key principles for ensuring that the tragedy of the past few days - for which there is no need to blame or reproach, but we must learn a tragic lesson - is not repeated.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president the worst thing we can do is to point fingers at each other instead of working together to find a solution to this serious problem, a problem that as i said is not just one country's but ours all. pointing the finger at malta for incidents that occurred in waters under the responsibility of libya and not in waters under the responsibility of malta is incorrect and unfair. malta is aware of its obligations and is honouring them with full respect for human life. so much so that the majority of the migrants who arrive in malta each year are people rescued from death at sea. the burden on malta is already disproportionate and i'll give you an example: only the maritime zone overlooking malta is large, sur altmaier, almost two thirds the size of germany, or is almost three quarters the size of italy. that is the maritime area of malta's responsibility. malta has so far monitored this area alone because frontex has not started its rounds either. and mr commissioner, this parliament has doubled the budget of frontex, so much so that it wants frontex to operate. but frontex has so far been completely ineffective in the mediterranean. so to blame malta for accidents in the libyan sea is wrong and unfair. instead of pointing fingers at each other, let's find a solution together and if we want, the solution is clear. since this is not a problem of one country alone, the burden of migrants rescued in maltese waters should be shared by all. yes, between seven and twenty member states of the european union. that's clear. it is unclear, mr president, whether national governments are prepared to shoulder this responsibility and share the burden. thank you.
mr president, it is a shame that it has once again had to be a tragedy where so many people have died to expose the lack of concrete action on immigration on the part of the union. while i believe that all member states bear their responsibilities, especially in a life-and-death situation, so too must the commission and especially the council, which in my view has not dealt with this problem with the urgency and commitment it deserves. a review of the past four years shows that if you take away the buzzwords of 'solidarity' and 'mobilization', little has been done to address this alarming situation. we expect immediate action on the burden-sharing principle, on the dublin 2 review, on logistical and administrative assistance and on the effective operation of the joint patrols - hitherto phantoms - promised long ago by frontex, an agency which now seems to have been dismantled in the face of the enormity of the crisis. no country, especially a small one like malta, which is carrying far more than it can bear, can continue to face this tragedy alone. at this stage the priority is the crisis itself and not who is right or wrong. we need to put together a contingency plan in the form of a 'marshal plan' before we have to meet here again to repeat the same things because another tragedy has happened. there's no time to lose, too many lives lost. i assure you that the definition given by commissioner frattini regarding solidarity is indeed implemented. thank you mr president.
mr president, we all talk about the importance of health. at the same time, certain national governments do not take this into consideration when certain activities, which may be of an industrial nature, are carried out near residential areas. in malta an explosion occurred recently in a factory owned by multigas, which is less than 100 metres away from the residential area of kirkop. secondly, very dangerous activities are taking place within the bay of birżebbugia. there is bunkering from ship to ship, as well as the storage of gas tanks, in close proximity to the town of birżebbugia.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i cannot begin this speech without expressing my appreciation to the maltese and gozitan people for the great strides they have made in the three years since malta became a member of the european union. those were challenging and difficult three years. three years in which the maltese people have shown that they are capable of adjusting to the future. it was a very interesting time for countries and i can say with a smile that the results are starting to show. the introduction of the euro in january is a confirmation of this. malta has clearly demonstrated that it is able to meet all the necessary criteria to allow this important transition to take place without any obstacles. a transition that will strengthen the country's economy and make malta more competitive. no change has been easy, but i think malta is fully prepared to continue to face this new challenge that it will face from next january. it should not be forgotten that malta had a limited time to comply and adopt the necessary measures for this change. in less than three years malta has reduced the inflation rate to 2. 2%, the national debt to gdp ratio is falling to the 60% reference rate. the budget deficit for sustainable reduction is less than 3% and we must also take into account the fact that since malta joined the erm2 programme, the maltese lira has not suffered any devaluation and at no time has an air of uncertainty been created in the country. as commissioner almunia said, malta has managed to achieve a high level of sustainability and convergence. malta and the maltese, mr president, are used to meeting and overcoming their challenges; challenges that in the past were not small, but have culminated in a long history of success. this is a historic moment for the european union as it will continue to enlarge the eurozone with more countries and more people. it is also a historic moment for malta as it will continue to integrate its peoples into the european union. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the useful work he has done in this regard.
thank you mr president, today's vote is a significant one for malta where, apart from the important and legitimate arguments about when it was best to adopt the euro, there is a consensus and political commitment that our country will make a major effort on 1 january next. once the european commission has accepted the statistics and methodology presented by the maltese authorities, then they will continue to be accepted by the european authorities when the same basis is used by successive governments. in the coming years, much work needs to be done on the sustainability of public finances, in order to comply with the maastricht criteria. as both the commission and the european central bank have pointed out, the maltese government has so far resorted to one-off sales of public assets while continuing to increase fiscal repression, mainly on the workers and the middle class. this is unsustainable. good work is being done by the national euro changeover committee, but more needs to be done to directly involve consumer representatives to combat the perception that the changeover will bring a high cost of living. further basic information, inter alia on interest rates, should also be provided. the 'fair' initiative, whereby individual businesses are entering into double pricing agreements, is to be commended. however, just over half of maltese and gozitan businesses are involved in this scheme. i strongly encourage other businesses to join this initiative. let us make a success of the changeover to the euro, but whoever thinks that this will solve the country's economic problems is mistaken. the solution lies within ourselves. over the past few years, malta's gross domestic product has fallen from 78% to 71% of the european average. the progress made in the last two years has been mainly due to the large profits of banks and projects with direct government expenditure, which policy will begin to be severely limited by the convergence criteria. the sectors that should be the engines of the economy, such as tourism and manufacturing, have declined. the social and economic shock we had yesterday in our country when 570 people lost their jobs in one day with the closure of a vf factory was a confirmation of this. a genuine national effort is therefore needed for competitiveness in these areas.
in writing. – the maltese public’s support will also be influenced by the impact of eurozone membership on ordinary citizens, the business community and the economy itself. three major factors stand out. the first is the success of the transition. after perhaps a low start, preparations seem to be gathering pace and no doubt it is imperative that consumers and operators keep tight control of the process. so far we have tended to hear only about the pros, in terms of the benefits to maltese consumers when they travel abroad, the improved competitiveness of destination malta for tourists, lower transaction costs for businesses engaged in intra-eu trade, and so forth. but we have heard very little about the potential disadvantages. on the one hand, malta needs to adapt to policies, adjustment mechanisms, and measures taken by the european central bank, such as on interest rates and monetary aggregates, that will strongly influence our destiny. on the other, our fulfilment of the membership criteria cannot rely on the results of a crash economic diet but must be based on sustainable economic policies that ensure that we do not infringe the rules.
thank you mr president, the government has made it its policy to introduce the euro by 1 january 2008. in fact, to do so, it had to meet certain criteria, for example on deficit and inflation. they obviously affected the financial policy of the government and the part of society that was most affected was the part that is in need. so there was an alternative, not not to join the euro, but to do so slowly. but of course the arrival of the euro has its positives, it also has certain aspects that will affect it negatively. but the maltese labour delegation, in the national interest, voted in favour.
i would also like to join my colleagues in congratulating vice-president kratsa on her very interesting report, which is very important and very useful at this particular moment, because this is a moment in which the challenge we face is how we can give a sign of hope in the face of a situation which is a completely heartbreaking situation. that is the challenge before us and our response, despite everything, must be to persevere and hold on to hope. i have no doubt, madam commissioner, that your enthusiasm is exactly what you are doing, that you are a beacon of hope in this situation. and so we are supporting the initiatives that you are taking, as we have done for example in the case of the tim mechanism, which we now know will be renewed. you have our support and you had our support for this because we felt that this is a mechanism that gives aid for basic needs. and you also have support for the possibility of direct aid to the palestinian authorities, provided of course that financial transparency is ensured, because we as a parliament have the duty, we have the duty, to see that the money is spent in a transparent way. it is unfortunate that the current situation does not allow us to talk about the other aspects of the mediterranean, because we know that meda funds have also been spent in other countries and they have been spent well, which is commendable. for example, the rate at which money was spent in countries like morocco, like jordan, like tunisia was a rate that over time we saw greatly improved. last short reference: the femip mechanism. this is a mechanism of the european investment bank which i think it is good to continue to strengthen.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. we have already discussed the question of migration many times in previous rounds. i have pointed out on several occasions - also in connection with another debate today - that the overall approach to migration will certainly play a major role in the council conclusions tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, that we are taking on the issue, that it is not just one issue. you are right to ask how countries such as malta but also other member states of the european union can be helped. but we will also try to find solutions to the problems and causes of migration, and in particular illegal migration, together with the countries of origin. the other question is, of course, a technical one. but of course all this depends on how we deal with the question of the future of the treaty establishing a european constitution.
the president of the council. the return of refugees is an important issue, which has also been on the agenda of joint debates between the european union and african states, but most recently at the joint migration conference in tripoli last year. this is true of course in many areas: because today, although it has not had a decisive influence on this discussion, we have not only a wave of migration from the south to the north, but also a wave of migration from the east to the west. it is precisely there, when it comes to visa regulations, that the point is always included, namely, whether we can find arrangements for corresponding return agreements. but this is also the case in the talks with countries from the african union, for example. i cannot give you a number of countries with which such agreements have already been concluded. but we'll be able to deliver them.
while i agree with the president that this is something that needs to be discussed where the causes of emigration are concerned, i would like to see what position the german presidency will take on malta's proposal for burden sharing. we agree that it eventually needs to be discussed with the constitutional treaty, but this is an urgent catastrophe and needs urgent action.
mr president, i want to congratulate mr pirker for his excellent report and i am also glad to hear that the commission supports the call of my country, malta, for a fairer share of responsibility, even with respect to the dublin regulation. in fact, any review of the dublin regulation must surely take into account the unintended effects of the current rules, whereby countries such as mine are being obliged to carry a disproportionate responsibility simply because they are border member states. to establish a fairer division of responsibility we need to ensure that solidarity is truly rendered meaningful. so far, it has to be said that in eu policymaking ‘solidarity’ has always meant granting financial assistance. now this is no longer sufficient. we need to go beyond that. a true meaning of solidarity must also mean something beyond throwing money at the problem; beyond merely writing a cheque. it must also mean sharing the burden, sharing the responsibility. it must also mean opening up our borders to share with border member states the responsibility of dealing with asylum seekers and others who make it often perilously, but alas illegally, to eu territory. so in reviewing dublin, i agree with the report that we need a fairer share of the burden. finally, one issue regarding timing: we are discussing the establishment of a common asylum system by 2010. however, we all know that a common asylum system is not needed in 2010. it is urgently needed today. so we should ask ourselves, how many lives will be lost before 2010? how many things will go wrong before member states rise above their national egotism and get there?
europe looks at ethiopia with ambivalent eyes. on the one hand, firstly, she had great confidence that she could move this country forward on the path to democracy, so we sent one of the largest observation missions we have ever sent. the west sees ethiopia as a quasi-allied, when i say the west america as well. on the other hand, we applauded the intervention of somalia in trying to provide assistance to the government of that country. but what did we do internally? internally we have seen that, as this country has been relying on aid from the international environment, especially from the west, human rights are not being respected, minorities are being punished in one way or another; we see some corruption in the police and the judiciary; we see almost forty people, or even fewer, in prison who could face the death penalty, and i think that, as an appeal, europe should, rather than using the freeze, try to reopen negotiations in a collaborative way with this country to show it that it cannot continue in this way.
thank you, chairman. europe is currently focusing on a new vision for the seas, which undoubtedly have great potential. we all agree that the sea is very important for the european union and over time the sea has become a key element in what is a political debate and we can say that it is a well-known fact how essential it is in order to be able to look at this maritime vision in a more holistic way. the commissioners responsible for maritime policy, including in particular the maltese commissioner joe borg, have prepared a document on the future of maritime policy for the union. the publication of this green paper launched an extensive consultation on the possibilities of a successful maritime policy adopted by the commission. the aim was to jointly achieve a way of implementing the policy affecting maritime activity while maintaining synergies between sectors, always in a sustainable way. this maritime policy is new and will contribute to improving the livelihoods of coastal countries in a way that reflects regional development policy. such a policy will not only strengthen global competition but also protect the environment and address challenges such as immigration and climate change among others. we can, and must, turn these challenges into successes. the expectations are high but we must not forget that the opportunities and opportunities of meeting these challenges are also high. i would like to call on europeans not to miss this opportunity. i would like to conclude by saying that it is clear that european cooperation is necessary to move forward. the future of europe is based on the seas. this requires us to cooperate on a new level and i believe that only benefits can result from this. thank you.
thank you mr president. last week, together with our group president joseph daul, i had the opportunity to visit one of the four detention centres in malta, which together host over 1,000 detainees. 400 people - all migrants who took the great risk of crossing the mediterranean. and indeed, they were rescued from the sinking by the maltese naval squadron. i spoke to one of the immigrants from nigeria - supposedly a country rich in natural resources. a 17-year-old boy who with tears in his eyes insisted with me that he wanted to go to europe. however, in any case even detention is better than going back to nigeria. this shows, mr president, that we have so far failed in our policy for development on the african continent. it is this policy that can in the long term lead to a reduction in the influx of immigration into europe. but this policy must also go hand in hand with another policy that urgently and immediately strengthens our fight against illegal immigration and in particular against the criminal network behind it that is exploiting the plight of these people. mr president, we have seen boats used by migrants to cross the mediterranean all the same size, all with the same engine, shocking and embarrassing, loaded up to 30 people, enough to take on water with the slightest wind or sea blast and sink. it is not for nothing that before leaving libya they are told that from there they will arrive, or italy, or malta, or be shipwrecked. to share each emigrant, mr. president, you pay $1,000, so we know that a boat leaves an income of $30,000, almost all profit. who knows if this money is financing terrorism. thank you.
in writing. – the last two years relating to the treaty reform process have not been wasted. the following five steps have been identified and implementation initiated: 1. following the mandate in june 2006, the german presidency drew up a report. 2. the european council agreed to convene an intergovernmental conference. 3. as the baton of the council presidency is passed to the portuguese it has now become their priority to draw up a draft treaty. 4. the igc is expected to complete its work before the end of this year. 5. ratification is expected to take place before the european elections in 2009. in reality, what is happening is a more cautious approach: the constitutional aspect of the treaty has been restructured so as to appease the anti-constitutionality. on the other hand, substantial innovations originally proposed in the constitutional treaty have survived; the fact that the eu will have a legal personality being the most important of all.
madam president, i would like to register that the pattern of voting with regard to maritime integration takes into account the fact that the frontex issue has become almost a farcical one. as is known, the level of solidarity granted to the frontex, which is part of this integrated policy, has become almost a joke. only one helicopter – the german helicopter – has been pledged, and perhaps it has not been noted that two neighbouring countries of malta have, to all intents and purposes, closed their airspace. one has periodically refused entry of the german helicopter into its airspace; another has even threatened to bring it down. that is why i voted in this manner.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, we must admit that what is happening and what has happened in iraq is much worse than civil war – a question that is often posed. of course, there is not civil war. it is worse. there is total chaos. nobody has any idea or any plan as to how to unravel the mess we put iraq in. i use the word ‘put’ because what went on was not needed, not required, nor was it wanted. it was an invasion which has proved a terrible nightmare for those who have participated in it. when one makes a mistake, one has to carry the responsibility for it. it is about time that those people who participated, those countries in the coalition as well as the willing partners, show responsibility for what has happened to the iraqi people, especially the refugees who are seeking help – even if they find any help, they find only a minimum amount. it is about time that those people who made the initial mistake, who are responsible for the chaotic situation, show that responsibility and the first people who should be helped are the refugees.
i would like to explain that there should be no compromise with security. we have to appreciate that taking liquid items on an airplane is a bit of a hassle, and on the other hand one of the things that is sad when you have to throw away the things you are carrying, but on the other hand safety is paramount, safety is the best thing. if we have one of the secret security of england country, they tell us that the danger still exists, the danger is there. we cannot make any compromises, and therefore we must be very careful before passing resolutions, motions relating to this nature which do not show in any way weakness or weakness in our attitude.
mr president, today we have before us an agreement which reaffirms and consolidates the important role which the european union is to play in the world political sphere. a role that we must attach great importance to because it is part of the success of this union of countries. this agreement emphasises the strengthening of relations not only with our neighbouring countries but also with countries from other continents, especially countries with thousands of millions of people of european descent, such as latin america and central america. it is in the interest of both sides that these relations continue to be strengthened through dialogue and exchanges of ideas. however, we must ensure that the countries that benefit from any aid we give must safeguard their democracy. we must also ensure that all aid, both direct and indirect, is aimed at reducing poverty, increasing equality and last but not least reducing the imbalance between the two regions in the global sphere. this is always within the scope of transparency and accountability. freedom of expression and the protection of human rights should also be a priority in all negotiations. while the european union should give every help to every country at particular times, but they need some special help, we must ensure that this is done in a structured framework so that no one is left behind and so that wealth is distributed fairly. as members of this parliament we want to promote as much as possible the relations between the european union and mercosur and see how we can strengthen what is weak so that these relations ensure as much effectiveness and success as possible. with new challenges, such as climate change, becoming increasingly high on our agenda, we should look at these relations as the start of a strategic partnership that will lead to the environmental dimension and sustainable development being turned into mutual benefits.
member of the commission. madam president, i will start by thanking the rapporteur. i think you see how complex the issue is, and it is very difficult to address all aspects, but it is good to try to address the complexity of the issue. in my work, i am not pretending to be ‘mr energy’. there are three pillars of external energy relations: one is supply transit (and here i work with my colleagues benita ferrero-waldner and peter mandelson); the second pillar is clean energy and energy efficiency such as launching a global energy efficiency platform (here i work with stavros dimas and janez potočnik; and the third pillar addresses energy poverty (where i work with louis michel). that indicates how complex this is, and on top of it we have the member states. the treaty, and also the reform treaty, says a very important thing: each member state is responsible for its energy mix. that is why i think the report calls for speaking with one voice. i think that is the main message that i got from the report. this is far from simple, and we are far from being there. i believe that this report gives us a good chance of advancing the whole union along this path. i now come to mr beazley’s question, because i think it was addressing the heart of the whole process: why do energy issues need to be addressed in a partnership and cooperation agreement, a post-pca agreement with russia, if you have an energy charter? the energy charter is a multilateral instrument. for russia, our relations on energy are definitely much bigger. we invest in russia. russia invests here. a russian nuclear reactor will perhaps be constructed in belarus. that means we need to build confidence on both sides, and confidence could be built if there are very clear legal requirements describing both sides’ duties and also rights. if these are described, then we can also conclude that there are areas where we also need an external energy representative. i hear this call for a high official coming from other partners. if we have treaty provisions making provision for union development then we should agree to a mandate – by a mandate i mean on a basis like committee 133 for external trade policy – then on the basis of this mandate the person delegated could speak with external suppliers, transit countries, or any other participants in the energy market. if we deal with this separately, then definitely it loses all power. we should see it as a symbiosis because it is not a separate issue from speaking with one voice. if you do not speak with one voice, then you do not need a messenger. if you speak with one voice, then you definitely need a messenger. so i will stay with this position. i would like to thank you for a very good debate. it was very interesting. after the commission produces this paper on external energy relations, i believe that parliament will return to the issue because you cannot resolve this issue with just one report. that would be too optimistic. again, i should like to thank the rapporteur for very good work.
in writing. – today, more than ever, economic powers are scrambling for energy resources. china is providing enormous amount of aid without strings to developing countries in recompense for energy supplies. russia is using its gas and oil clout so as to become once more a global player. the united states is foreseeing a future more dependent on nuclear technology. where does this leave the european union? it has become essential to close ranks for the supply and security of energy. problems facing those eu countries such as malta which have the potential of becoming energy suppliers have to be dealt with by the european union as a whole. just as in issues of illegal immigration, where questions of energy arise, it is the eu which should intervene. a common foreign policy on energy should not only be limited to supply and security but must also encompass two essential subjects: the emission of greenhouse gases and secondly the quest for alternative energy. a common foreign policy on energy can only make sense in this wider context, a triangle, with supply and security at the top, climate change and alternative sources at its base.
thank you mr president, mr commissioner. frontex is making a great effort but i have to say that we are still far from the necessary results. last july, the frontex mediterranean mission led to a halving of the number of migrants arriving in malta compared to july last year. nevertheless, incredibly, the mission was closed at the end of july and in fact we saw that during the month of august the number of arrivals doubled over the previous year. this month the frontex mission continued again but we still saw an increase on september last year. what does all this mean mr president? it means, firstly, that frontex should be further strengthened and therefore this parliament is committed to increasing the budget of frontex and not to reducing it, as the council is trying to do. it means that the member countries that have so much promised ships, helicopters, planes to frontex are not honouring the promises they have made and i expect both frontex and the commission to work with this parliament to make the member countries take up their responsibility. it also means that more work is needed to get third countries, such as libya, to cooperate with us in the area of immigration. but it also means, mr president, that there is still a whiff of hypocrisy in european immigration policy. everyone agrees that the first priority must be to save the lives of people drowning in the mediterranean. well, that's how it should be! but when i ask, as malta did, who will welcome the people rescued from the flood into their country, silence falls on deaf ears.
mr president, it is true that in recent months the continuous commitment of commissioner frattini together with the priority being given by the portuguese presidency is yielding some results despite the untenable bureaucracy and the lack of tangible solidarity from some quarters, which delay the effectiveness of a number of initiatives. but this tragic issue merits a common european policy that addresses fundamental issues urgently, including: the adoption of a burden-sharing policy between all member states, a revision of dublin ii as proposed in paragraph 18 of the sanchez report, adequate financial or other support including capital provision for infrastructure projects, also examining the feasibility, or not, of developing centres such as job centres in countries of origin and transit, developing a realistic return policy, implementing a timely integration policy and also fighting organised crime that traffics people, as well as xenophobia and racism. the bad news is that we do not have a european agency based in the mediterranean to develop this common immigration and asylum policy. frontex could never fulfil this role if its terms of reference were not substantially changed. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs who have shown us in concrete terms how far the union is still behind in this respect. they addressed the rights and dignity of migrants who are often victims of political repression, poverty and organised crime, as well as the difficulties faced by small member states such as malta that are carrying a disproportionate burden and often without concrete solidarity.
in writing. article 41 of the european treaty states that 'each member state shall ensure the application of the principle of equal pay for male and female workers for equal work or work of equal value'. this is a very important principle that we need to see implemented in every country. i think it's time to take it a step further. in malta there are a number of situations where people, both women and men, are paid at different rates and systems despite doing the same work. these different payments are being justified on bureaucratic criteria, such as the year during which these persons have been employed. in the event that such discrimination is between a female spouse or a male spouse, there is no infringement of the european treaty in its narrow interpretation. similar situations exist and are evident in the civil service and elsewhere. it is therefore necessary that both the commission and the governments of the member states take new initiatives to ensure a simple principle: equal pay for equal work, you are who you are.
we have before us an important opportunity to make the european union a more efficient and democratic union. the new treaty will give the european union the tools it needs to move forward as more european citizens join it. we have a unique opportunity and together we must see that the necessary compromises are now found to guarantee a better future for european citizens. many mentioned poland and england and their 'opt-outs'. yes, it is important that everyone keeps national interests in mind, but it is even more important to keep the interests of the european union in mind because we are all part of the european union. this applies not only to the council, but also in particular to the european parliament. i do not agree that there should be a european union in one way for certain european citizens and a european union in another way for certain european citizens in another country. we must therefore use this opportunity, which we will have in portugal in the coming days, to send a clear signal to our citizens that the european union is not stagnating and that the new treaty will guarantee that we will continue to move forward. we guarantee that after long and difficult years of continuous debate on the future of europe, we have found the path of agreement that will lead us to further success. the treaty should ensure greater transparency and, as mentioned above, greater efficiency. a treaty that should help us to give voice to every european citizen. i am pleased to note that my country, which i represent, will also increase its strength in this parliament. the european union faces important challenges that we must address as quickly as possible. we have to compete in this globalised world and so we have to have the necessary targets to meet these challenges, challenges such as climate change, immigration, how can we create more jobs and better conditions for our workers. these challenges can only be met if we have a more efficient and transparent european union.
as in the european constitution, the reform treaty will introduce the principle that a member state, no matter how small, must have adequate representation and cannot have less than six seats in the european parliament. malta, countries, which currently has five seats, will thus rise to six seats. this acquisition will heal a wound, so to speak, that was created just under seven years ago when in the treaty of nice malta was given five seats instead of six, the same as luxembourg which has the same population. six seats instead of five means a twenty per cent increase in representation and also means that maltese meps in this house will be in a better position to cope with the ever-growing parliamentary workload. suffice it to say that in this house we have more than twenty parliamentary committees which are already very difficult to deal with with six members. five is impossible. these committees are now preparing laws that are binding on all citizens including maltese citizens and it is therefore appropriate that the citizens of every country, even the smallest countries, are in an adequate, good and reasonable position to be represented and heard in each of these committees. the european parliament is now a full member of the council, and the council is the only institution with a parliamentary mandate. the 'minimum threshold' of six seats is therefore a positive step which will increase the confidence of the smaller countries in the european union and therefore i think we should give our support to the lamassoure-severin report.
mr president, i would like to start by saying that i agree with what mr itala said on the question of the budgetary process and that no one is prepared to accept that it is a rubber stamp, and therefore i suggest that we discuss this subject as soon as possible in order to address concretely the difficulties and differences that seem to exist. on a different level, we welcome the increase of 30 million in the frontex budget, realistically expecting improvements in the agency's structure, better coordination, and more decisive operations. parliament has given a clear and concrete signal, it is now up to frontex and the member states to eliminate the inefficiencies, broken promises, and delays we have suffered over the past year. another point i would like to address is that relating to the reports and study opinions produced within or commissioned by the various institutions including the commission. a common database of reports and studies is needed to avoid duplication of work, reduce waste and at the same time make information more accessible. in addition, there should be an annual report listing these studies and reports, who has taken the contract, how much has been spent, and if possible, what use has been made of them. we should also examine the impact and added value of the reports being produced by ecosoc and the cor, especially in the light of reports that are too technical or reports that have already been made by the commission and the parliament. on the issue of the purchase of buildings, i would like to recall that in 2006 it was agreed to review the policy of buying and renting buildings used by the institutions including information offices. i have the impression that over the years institutions, for different reasons, have bought or rented buildings at a price which appears to be higher than the market price. without taking away from the merits of the building purchase policy, it still makes sense to examine institutionally how we can improve the conditions under which we buy and rent buildings and build offices to bring them closer to market prices and thus avoid cartel or monopoly situations. finally, i would like to congratulate the finnish double act for the valuable work they have done and the way they have conducted the negotiations.
thank you mr president, and also to my colleagues mr virankoski and mr vile itala. through this budget, this parliament will double the budget of the frontex agency to almost eur 70 million. this is a measure that speaks for itself, because the priority that parliament is giving to frontex is now clear to everyone. the budget increase eur 30 million more has been allocated to the operational budget of frontex to increase its missions in those areas most affected by the influx of immigration. at the same time, mr president, we are increasing the administrative budget of frontex by 30% because we want the agency to be more effective in its work. and the conditions for lifting this reservation are three: firstly, we want the director of the frontex agency to establish regular contact with us to strengthen the scrutiny of this parliament on the frontex agency. secondly, we want detailed information on the work plan for next year of frontex, and as commissioner and vice-president of the european commission franco frattini himself announced that from next year frontex's mission in the mediterranean will become permanent, we therefore expect the agency to now allocate well over the eur 10 million originally projected so far for maritime border missions. thirdly, we need an updated and realistic timetable of the means, ships, planes and helicopters that the member countries are prepared to make available for frontex missions. we do not want fictitious timetables, as we had this year, where the member countries had supposedly committed to putting at frontex's disposal 21 planes, 27 helicopters, and 117 vessels, so that when we came for missions in practice we saw that the member countries, shamelessly, ignored their own promises. we therefore expect frontex to work on a realistic and reliable schedule before we remove this reserve. thank you.
madam president, i would like to focus on one aspect of what is being proposed. it is evident that the raison d’être for this particular legislation is a humanitarian basis. if one looks at why a judgment given in one particular country can be enforced in another with regard to the criminal and penal sentences, one appreciates that, basically, what we are doing is making life for the person who has been convicted a better one: being closer, perhaps, to his family, being closer, perhaps, to his place of origin. in fact i am surprised that, whilst we are taking this legislation from a humanitarian point of view, one of the criteria that is absent when it comes to transferring a person from serving a sentence in one particular state to another is, in my view, the humanitarian aspect. we are basing the criteria, basically, on nationality, citizenship or legal permanent residence. on the other hand, we do talk about, as a proposal and counterproposal, ‘close links’, but the humanitarian aspect as a criterion in itself is absent. let us take a particular case, for instance: it would not be possible for a person who is not a citizen of an eu country serving imprisonment in an eu country to serve closer to his homeland, because this aspect – the humanitarian criterion – has been left out.
thank you, madam president. the ombudsman's office has established itself well today and i would like to congratulate him on his good work. we now need to look ahead to seeing how the tools citizens have at their disposal when they come to seek redress will be clear, familiar tools that work ever more efficiently. to date, there is too much confusion about where citizens should go to complain. before the committee on petitions, before the commission, before the ombudsman, and before everyone, with the consequence that confusion, duplication of work, and extra costs are created, all of which can be avoided. therefore, as commissioner wallstrom has rightly said, better coordination between these institutions hearing and deciding on complaints is needed. there should be, for example, a clear time-limit within which these agencies respond to people as soon as they receive their complaint and also a time-limit on the maximum time they can take to give a definitive response. we still hear too many complaints that have been made over the years and are still pending. and as my colleague mcguinness said, when a particular agency receiving the complaint is not the right agency, it should not send a negative reply but should itself forward the complaint to the right agency. finally, when a citizen files a complaint, which is not entirely clear, because after all citizens are not all lawyers, greater effort should be made to give the recipient of the complaint the benefit of the doubt and not to regard the complaint as inadmissible. i think we have made great strides and i would like to congratulate the ombudsman again, but we still have a lot of work to do. thank you very much.
in writing. i would like to take the opportunity of this discussion to record my disappointment at the way in which the digital television sector is developing in malta. certain basic principles need to be respected. first, maltese consumers should have the right to continue to watch free of charge national 'free-to-air' stations. in practice, all providers of a digital television service must broadcast these stations free of charge. moreover, all those who do not purchase a digital receiver from these companies should still have the right to receive the signals of these stations. the second point is that of interoperability between the different platforms, i.e. digital terrestrial and 'cable' in the case of malta. the lack of interoperability in the maltese system is leading to less choice for consumers because when they want to use another company's service, they have to install a different receiver. i hope that the updated policy of the competent authorities in this area will address these problems.
i would like to join my colleagues in thanking and congratulating carlos coelho for his valuable work. mr president, the enlargement of the schengen area is not just another historic step in the development of europe, it is also a major acquisition for european citizens, as it gives them new rights. sometimes mr president we forget that there was a time when wherever you went in europe, immigration officers stamped your passport. to leave your country and re-enter, you had to fill in a boarding form to inform the authorities where you were going and how long you were going to be there. when you arrive at immigration control again, you are queued and quizzed; why you are here, what you are going to do, how long you are going to stay, you are treated with suspicion rather than welcome, which annoys many people. to return home you go through the same story, checks in the country of departure and checks on your return home. and let's not forget that recently we also had customs officers searching your luggage, asking you what you bought, how much you spent, as if you had contraband. mr president, this is not 50 years ago; this is only a short time ago. now at last the controls will end once and for all. this means that a country is in the schengen area. when travelling in schengen, free as in your own country; you leave your country, you arrive in another, you come back without checks, without stamps, without borders, without questions. the sense of freedom that comes with the freedom to move without controls is a great achievement that we all appreciate as one of the greatest achievements of the european union. more and more for us from islands, for us schengen connects us, it builds a bridge between the periphery and the centre; schengen means freedom for us, it means liberation.
i wanted to share some of my thoughts on schengen, and the way i see it. for me it is important not only for what is in the treaty and what will be implemented by virtue of it or the rules that will be applied, but i see it as part of a process, part of an important process for several european states and including in this case two efta states, to feel more integrated, to come closer to each other. although we have what is our independent and sovereign quality, but on the other hand we should be proud to be in a part as if it were a whole. in this case that entry and exit through common borders, because that will become common borders, part of a process as is the euro, part of a process that countries became part of europe. and we should all be proud to be part of this wise continent that exports the values it believes in.
madam president, i should like to congratulate my colleague, mr iturgaiz angulo, on his excellent report. having been a member of the committee on petitions myself since the beginning of this year, i too have to admit that i am becoming a keen supporter of this committee and the importance of its role. i dare say, however, that many members in this house are not giving this committee the importance that it deserves, and this should change. if eu citizenship means anything, surely it must mean that citizens of europe can stand up for their rights and make their voices heard, regardless of whether they stand up against companies, local or regional authorities, public agencies or even their own national governments. this right can best be exercised through the use of the petition to the european parliament – a right that is recognised as a basic right in the treaty. provided that their complaint concerns rights under eu law, people can rely on europe and on us, as representatives of europeans, to support them. the petition is a great tribute, i would say, to europe and what it stands for, but it is also a great credit to member states, because member states themselves signed a treaty which gave the right to petition, even if the petition can often be used as a tool against member state authorities themselves. so i strongly urge eu citizens to stand up for their rights, to use the petition as a tool to defend themselves on eu rights. those who will do so will surely find us standing right there behind them.
in writing. – in order to succeed in this era of globalisation, the european union needs to develop a foreign direct investment policy for europe. we need a policy to cover:- incoming foreign direct investment, that is direct investment into the european union and originating anywhere else in the world;- outgoing foreign direct investment, that is direct investment anywhere in the world originating in the european union; and- internal foreign direct investment, that is direct investment in any european union member state originating in any other european union member state. it is true that we have elements of such a policy, such as the seventh framework programme, which provides the conditions to attract research and development investment. but this is only one part, albeit an important one, of the story. facts and figures show the immense importance of foreign direct investment in today’s world economy, or europe’s foreign direct investment position in relation to the rest of the world. these facts show that if we are to put any real strength in the lisbon goals, we need an overall fdi policy for europe to reap the maximum benefits of fdi for our people.
acting president of the council. the commission has been discussing this issue of circular immigration and has been raising it in the context of a wider debate on the issue of immigration and immigration, namely illegal immigration and legal immigration in europe, and it has been one of the mechanisms that has been used in this debate on immigration-related issues. the commission has reflected and the commission has invited the council to reflect and debate. it is clear that in my view, circulation mechanisms alone will not solve all the issues raised in this debate. it is a measure that can be a proposal, it can be a method of alleviating and solving issues related to immigration and in this case even legal immigration, but it will certainly not solve all immigration problems. it must of course have a wider range of instruments, a wider range of policies, which, as you know, the council is discussing on the basis of a proposal from the commission. of course, you will also know that in the programme of the portuguese presidency, all questions relating to immigration, whether illegal immigration or legal immigration, are given priority. i should like to say that we would like to see the council meeting in december next month, which marks the end of our presidency, present a set of conclusions on the general issue of legal immigration and the fight against illegal immigration, which would actually mark real progress in these two areas, legal immigration and the fight against illegal immigration. as regards specific technical questions addressed to specific groups, this is the reflection that the council is making and should be making, it is not completed, you will imagine that i cannot tell you at this moment what the results of this reflection are, especially on very specific and very specific questions.
acting president of the council. in may 2007, the european parliament and the council adopted three decisions: the decision establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008 to 2013, the decision establishing the external borders fund for the period 2007 to 2013 and the decision establishing the european return fund for the period 2008 to 2013. the council also adopted in june 2007 the decision establishing the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals for the period 2007 to 2013. these four decisions form an integral part of the overall programme solidarity and management of migration flows. in line with the objectives set by the european council, the objective of this programme is to address the issue of equitable sharing of responsibilities between member states with regard to the financial burden resulting from the introduction of integrated management of the union's external borders and the implementation of common asylum and immigration policies. the european refugee fund fulfils the obligation laid down in article 63 (2) (b) of the ec treaty to adopt measures to ensure a balanced sharing of the burden borne by member states in receiving refugees and displaced persons and in bearing the consequences of such reception. the council also seeks to promote solidarity by other means. the council conclusions of 18 september 2007 on strengthening the management of the southern maritime borders in the european union, for example, encourage member states to provide support on a bilateral basis to member states facing particular pressure, citing that such support could be provided at the level of return operations, reception conditions, experts on the ground or voluntary commitment to take responsibility for asylum seekers, refugees, beneficiaries of subsidiary protection or unaccompanied minors.
acting president of the council. i am very pleased to answer you, mr president, and i am of course answering on behalf of the portuguese presidency and what the portuguese presidency thinks on the subject. the truth is that the honourable member knows that this question of migration, of migratory flows, and above all of course illegal migratory flows, and particularly those coming from regions in southern europe, are new problems, a new problem that we are facing, a problem that we did not know here a few years ago. and so we have to react to this new, unknown phenomenon and naturally take appropriate measures. but as always happens, these measures, this reaction, these instruments are gradually appearing, just as the awareness of the importance and the seriousness of this problem is gradually appearing. and i must tell you that for the portuguese presidency and for portugal as a member state the key word in this matter is solidarity. as with other issues affecting one or two member states, we all agree that they should be seen as a problem for all, so too with the issue of illegal migration, knowing that in many cases there are particular states which are particularly affected by these phenomena, here too the word that is needed is solidarity. true, we often stick to our word. it is true that we have and must go beyond words, but the awareness that we have now that this is indeed a global problem, a problem which affects everyone and which is the responsibility of all is a first step and we have, of course, the confidence that gradually, realistically, but also with the urgency that the case requires, we can move from the word solidarity, keeping it concise, but to concrete actions and measures. that is the role of the presidency, that is the effort of portugal as a member state, and you will understand that it is not up to a single member state or a single presidency to influence all events and all measures as it might wish. but there is, and i can assure you of this, an increased awareness and a growing awareness of the fact that we share this responsibility and give substance and meaning to this solidarity.
with all due respect, minister, i am not convinced by your answer because as far as the ministers in the council are concerned, you have people drowning in the mediterranean and you have countries in the mediterranean that cannot cope with the emergency, so i am not convinced. and we will ask you something specific; malta has made a proposal in the council on how to share the burden, on burden sharing. he called for those rescued from the water, from the seas of european union countries, such as the seas of libya for example, to have these migrants distributed among all the countries of the european union. what was the council's response i would like to ask you?
in writing. i would like to draw attention to two amendments which i proposed and which were approved in the final report. the first proposal says that each country should have the right to 'reduce vat, or in particular circumstances not to impose this tax, on essential goods and services such as food and medicines, for social and environmental reasons for the benefit of the consumer. the second proposal says that there may be no vat, or a low rate, on products relating to education, social security and culture. 'at present, vat on products related to education may be reduced. this amendment further corroborates this fact. i call on the council of ministers to follow the political line indicated by the european parliament.
thank you mr president. one of the points on which a common agreement was reached between this parliament and the council is to substantially increase the budget of the frontex agency, which has in fact been doubled. i would like to say that between the first reading of this budget and the second reading which we will approve this week, the civil liberties committee of this parliament had an intensive session with the head of the frontex agency, where we spoke and where we had a detailed presentation on the work plan of the agency for the coming year. this presentation, mr president, convinced us that we are doing well in increasing the budget of this agency and that with more resources at its disposal over the next year this agency will be more effective than it has been so far. the head of our agency also details several new missions to be carried out over the next year at the union's external borders. both land, air and sea missions. for those of us who are missions at sea, it is very satisfying to see that frontex activity at maritime borders will increase substantially, especially in the central mediterranean, but also in the eastern mediterranean where we have recently seen the problem grow very much. the missions will also continue near the canary islands. mr president, i have no doubt that the citizens of the countries affected will welcome the more effective presence of frontex to help them cope with the influx of migration, which is as we all know a major concern for the citizens in these countries. and so, we will appreciate the decisions we have taken with this budget. i am sure that this budget will also send a clear message to the organised crime network that is profiting from the trafficking of migrants, that their activity is not tolerated. thank you.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, without any "powder on the tongue" either - although some, some more than others, the europe-africa summit was a success. without the corset of a written text, some comments. i remember very well when, at the beginning of the portuguese presidency or even in the preparation phase of the portuguese presidency, we set as our presidency's objective the holding of the europe-africa summit, the comments, the doubts, sometimes even the criticisms of setting this summit as our objective. some would say: 'africa does not arouse the necessary interest and commitment from public opinion, society, the member states and the institutions to make it a reality: you, the presidency, will be alone, with little support. it is not on the international agenda, africa, there is no interest". others said: "there are issues of participation, of organization, which are difficult, if not insurmountable". they discouraged us, they discouraged us from taking this project forward. but the truth is that with the support of many member states, which has indeed been verified, which have collaborated with us, with the presidency, in drawing up the texts, in the direct negotiation of the texts with the africans, with the support of the institutions of the union, the commission and parliament, in countering the critics and the sceptics, also resolving delicate and difficult diplomatic issues, we have succeeded, as they say in portugal, "against the wind and against the tide", in holding this summit. i will not say whether it is historic or not, but the future will tell. but there is no doubt that this summit marks a new phase in the relationship between europe and africa and its holding in itself was a success. yes, as commissioner michel said, we did not avoid problems, difficulties and differences at the summit, in our global dialogue with africa, which was the summit. on the contrary! we talked about the problems, the difficulties, what divides us. we talked about trade, we talked about security, we talked about conflict, we talked about human rights violations, face to face, frankly and transparently. but the summit was obviously not about negotiating trade agreements - that was not the forum - it was certainly not about resolving the immediate problem of the sudan issue; the summit was not, of course, intended to resolve the situation in zimbabwe as if by magic. however, we did confront each other, faced these difficulties, discussed them, expressed our views and, when there were differences, did not hesitate to say where those differences were. the message that the european union has given and conveyed on all these issues has been absolutely unequivocal. with sudan, as is well known, either in plenary or later in a meeting at the highest level of the troika with its leaders. and we also defend our position, the position of the european union, on the economic partnership agreements. mr gay mitchell may be able to speak more fully and in greater detail on this subject, but we have had the opportunity to explain clearly what the european union's position is on economic partnership agreements. we have sought agreements that are fair, that are balanced, that favour africa, that favour our african partners: that is our position and not the other way around. let us be absolutely clear on this point. what we seek to do is to respond to african interests and aspirations and not the other way around. those who attack, criticise or belittle the efforts of the commission and the council, in conjunction with the commission, to conclude as many economic partnership agreements as possible by the end of this year are wrong. but those who say that the summit is not the end of the road, that is to say that the summit alone will not revolutionize relations with africa, are right. the decisions that have been taken must be followed up, in order, without any doubt. the real value of this summit, the real importance of this summit, will indeed be assessed in the medium and long term by our ability to deliver on what was agreed, what was decided, what was committed. we will therefore naturally have to follow up on the decisions that have been taken. we must of course evaluate the results obtained and only then, only when this evaluation is carried out, as i say in the medium and long term, can we say with all the rightness that the summit was a success in its consequences and effects. but, as i say, by agreeing on a joint strategy, a concrete action plan, concrete follow-up mechanisms, by discussing such important, such topical, such contemporary issues as climate change, as integration issues, as energy issues, as immigration issues, obviously the summit represented a step forward, a step of maturity in our relationship with africa. we waited seven years, seven years to get from cairo to lisbon. we are absolutely certain that we shall wait much less for a summit between europe and africa. the importance, the usefulness, the significance of this summit will undoubtedly be reflected in the need for a new summit to be held in the near future. you will understand that the portuguese presidency is naturally delighted with this event, with this initiative which we share with everyone, and we thank everyone for their collaboration, commitment and effort in making it a success.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall try to answer the more specific points very quickly and then i shall dwell briefly on the economic partnership agreements. two speakers regretted the insufficient involvement of parliament. i have to say that we can perhaps do better, but quite honestly, compared with other major international meetings in the past, i feel that today, at any rate, parliament is fully integrated into this process. i must say that i always take great pleasure in debating with members of parliament and even in contradicting them, because it allows me to refine my own positions and i quite regularly change my mind because of you, not to please you, but simply because i am convinced. secondly, darfur and sudan. i would like to say, however, first of all, as the president has said, that the priority of this summit was not to settle this question. however, we did have a troika meeting with the portuguese presidency, president barroso, the high representative for the cfsp and myself. we have met the sudanese president and i can tell you that the message that was given on that occasion is a message which, in tone and content, more than largely reflects the very hard speech that i have heard here. mr bachir was clearly told that he had to respond positively and as soon as possible to the united nations to enable the rapid deployment of this hybrid force which is obviously needed to improve the situation of the people in darfur. mr cornillet, i have to say that i fully agree with your statement on international humanitarian law. you know that yesterday, for example, i met all the operators who are partners of echo. there were many of them, and i raised this issue of international humanitarian law. i took up the proposal you had already mentioned and we agreed to hold a major conference on this subject in april or may. i also announced to them that i would invite, even though i have no power to invite, but i would invite the european parliament and the national parliaments to participate in this conference, if it is possible, if the european parliament is interested in it, because, indeed, i see every day a rather serious, indeed a very serious, trivialization of respect for international humanitarian law. so much so that when i was in the field, in a certain place, i spoke to the person in charge of access for the humanitarian convoys. i said, "but you're not respecting international humanitarian law at all", and he said, "but you have to understand that we're at war". it is obviously tragic to hear this, because this position contradicts the very essence, the genesis of international humanitarian law. so we're gonna move forward on that plan, believe me. as regards nuclear energy, mrs isler-béguin, i must say that this is a good question, which also interests me. i think that this was requested by our african partners, more as a matter of principle, perhaps, than as a matter of substance. otherwise, i share your reservations. first, they were asked to talk about the non-proliferation aspect of weapons of mass destruction and they said, "okay, we talk about that but then there is no reason not to talk about the use of civilian nuclear". well, that's all in the air. i'm as sorry as you are, but they asked for it and we still can't deny the partners the right to talk about it. the language is very weak, and there is no mention of developing a nuclear industry in africa. we are willing to talk about nuclear energy, we are willing to discuss nuclear energy among ourselves, since we said at the outset that nothing was taboo. so i think we have to be consistent. there are two other elements i would like to touch on, and then i will finish with the epas. i think mrs zimmer said that we were mainly concerned with what the big european investors could use. on the epa side, this will allow me to come back to it, which i obviously do not agree with. you can keep me here for another fortnight, day and night, i won't accept this criticism. for a very simple reason. i have been involved in these negotiations for several months now. i am not negotiating - i will make it clear - i am participating in these negotiations. at no time did it seem to me that the aim was to promote the european economy or european enterprises. those who say such things, i think, are mistaken, either misinformed or in bad faith. i think they're misinformed since we're never in bad faith. but i think that in the context of what we are dealing with, that is very unfair. i come now to the economic partnership agreements. i would like to ask about the interim agreements: what are they for? are they designed to support european businesses? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so if at the end of this year, despite my good will, the countries concerned do not have another agreement that puts them on the same footing as they have had until today, they will indeed lose many markets, as i said in the case of côte d'ivoire. that other interim agreement. these interim agreements, who did we make them with? in most cases, with middle-income countries which would otherwise fall into a much more unfavourable system than the one they have had so far. is this done to protect our companies, to open up channels for our companies to penetrate and invade? no, that's not true! and what did we propose? i now come to the substance of these agreements, because truth has its rights too. i am prepared to listen to everything and i am prepared to understand everything and i am even prepared to share a number of the remarks and criticisms you make. but what are we proposing? transition periods of up to 15 and 25 years are proposed. mr. wade says we're gonna flood his market with subsidized european agricultural products. that's right! agricultural products can protect the 20% which remains unliberalised. i don't quite understand what he means. besides, mr. wade is not directly involved. it is true that he has the right to speak on behalf of all africa but he is not concerned because he is a ldc and he has the everything but arms system. mr mbeki, whom i admire very much, and with whom i get along very well, is the whistleblower of the apes, but of course it's easy. he has a special treaty of association with us. so we can ask ourselves to what extent he is not afraid to put the other countries in the region in competition with him. i'm not being malicious, i'm just saying that we can ask ourselves that. i don't think that's what it is, but at least we could ask ourselves that. mr konaré, who is the chairman of the committee, is a brilliant lawyer, and his vocation is also to recover what he hears from the concerns of others. it's all legitimate, you know. but when you come to me, mr hutchinson, and say that "all african leaders have said that"... that is not true. not all african leaders. it is true that a number of them have asked us questions. for example: 'what will happen, mr michel, when we have removed the tariff barriers, we will obviously lose money, our budget for ways and means. how are we going to pay the teachers, the police, the civil servants, etc.?" we replied: 'you can create regional funds, we will make what are known as 'contributions' agreements with you, that is to say, we will make available financial resources which will correspond, at a minimum, to the net fiscal impact of the abolition of tariffs, in order to compensate for these losses in full and so that you will have the means to finance the services of the state, etc.' asymmetry, the transition period. what else have we done? we have prepared with these countries, at their request, because they have included in the agreements what we find there today, generic matrices. what's that word, a little bureaucratic? generic matrices are a kind of blueprint in which all projects, all sectors, the very nature of what they want as accompanying measures to accompany the gradual opening of markets if they wish: technology transfer, capacity increase, expertise, infrastructure works, interconnection or decoupling, all of this. i have also prepared a financial memorandum for each regional economic community, which is a kind of commitment, in paper and figures, of the resources that the european union puts at their disposal. the only thing i cannot do is to promise them the money that the member states promised gleneagles. they've promised a billion euros, at least half of it for africa. i hope they do. it's from 2010 and it's aid for trade. so this is extra money. we have more than doubled the regional funds i mentioned earlier. that's all that's on the table. i must confess that my greatest concern is the economic integration aspect, because for me the development aspect is first and foremost the economic integration aspect, which will enable them to create wealth, wealth which they can of course use for social services, to redistribute prosperity to their fellow citizens. it is true that we have not made much progress in this area for the reasons i have just mentioned. we will therefore be discussing, probably throughout the next year, the question of regional epas to maintain, consolidate or create this dimension of economic integration. what i confess is that after giving up everything, giving everything... for everything they asked us, the answer was yes. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. what is true is that when we are going to have to negotiate now in 2008 to try to have this regional integration, we are going to have to be very convincing and we will necessarily have to have arguments. don't worry, we'll hear them, we'll listen to them... i will try very hard to answer their concerns, their uncertainties, their questions so that we can really, in a concrete way, reassure them. but i have to tell you that apart from that additional one billion, half of which has to go to africa, i don't have many more arguments. we'll see what happens. i am still a little hurt when i hear that we have been blackmailing our partners. there was never any blackmail on our partners for a very simple reason, that we didn't have the power to blackmail. first of all, i wouldn't have done it! we can't force our partners to sign these agreements! excuse me, that's a little too simple. i see the result. i would even like to send you the status of the matter at the level of the countries that have signed, etc., in order to show you that there are many more countries than we think that have already signed and that have understood the mechanism. the last point, to be quite complete, concerns the ldcs which today benefit from everything but arms and thus have full and unlimited access to our markets. and for those, people asked me what they were going to lose. in fact, they lose nothing at all but an opportunity to benefit from particularly generous rules of origin. what are the particularly generous rules of origin? the fact is that today, in order for a product to be considered as originating in a partner country, there must be at least two processing operations on the material. from now on, it's just one transformation. for example, for fish that will be caught outside their waters but imported into our country, this will already be sufficient. it will be a transformation and so they will be able to enter our markets quota-free and duty-free. so here's the big difference. there is tremendous potential for opportunity that they are effectively missing. i wanted to tell you all this and i'm ready, of course, whenever you want, to do the exercise again. ask me questions, write me questions. i will try, i swear, to answer you completely and sincerely. if you have a question to which it appears that perhaps my answer is not right or wrong, i will gladly acknowledge it and correct it, i can assure you of that. so far, i've heard all the questions, i've checked all the questions, i've been very involved in this. i have not yet heard a question to which a precise, concrete and honest answer has not been given.
in writing. – the summit between european and african countries took place on the 8 and 9 december in lisbon, portugal. more than 70 heads of state and government attended. malta’s contribution focused on the issue of irregular immigration. it is in malta’s interest that africa is seen as europe’s responsibility. assistance given and investment made in africa will mean that fewer people from that continent will be forced to leave their country for a better life. the majority of irregular immigrants that reach malta come from sub-saharan africa and are economic immigrants. the situation, however, could deteriorate when the general preferential trade agreements expire on the 31 december 2007. most african countries have rejected the proposal of ‘special partnership agreements’. only one fifth have signed interim agreements. even if the expiry date is extended, it is in the interest of every country to sign interim agreements to absorb the negative economic impact following the expiry of the ‘preferential agreements’. other irregular immigrants who come to malta are political refugees. the fact that human rights issues in darfur and zimbabwe were omitted from the original agenda does not augur well for the voiceless who continue to suffer in silence.
