i think that the german presidency is right to give priority to the future of the union in the light of the treaties. however, i am disappointed in the way it has been handled. i think it is a fundamental mistake for you to let the rejected constitution prevail over the opening of new negotiations. you're wasting a lot of valuable time. i am also disappointed by the informal consultations, in which only those countries which have already ratified the constitution are welcome. i can assure you that this counterproductive approach will not make public opinion in the netherlands and france any more enthusiastic about europe. i hope you agree with me that it is precisely public opinion in these two countries that should not be given an extra dose of euroscepticism. i would like to ask you, as president-in-office of the council, whether this type of consultation is part of your strategy for the presidency. how can you be a good president of the whole council and at the same time participate in closed consultations which exclude member states? is it not particularly important at this time to consult france, the netherlands and the countries which have not yet ratified it collectively, i.e. within the council's regular assembly? council president, i wish you god's strength and god's blessing for your work.
president, thank you very much, mrs merkel, for your impressive speech. we agree with the priorities you have set for foreign policy. stability in the balkans depends on a european perspective, you said. we are in full agreement with that and it is good that you have reaffirmed that here on behalf of the council. the most urgent is, of course, the question of kosovo. you made a comment about that. some form of independence for kosovo seems inevitable. the question now is what the european union can do to make such a solution acceptable to serbia and, in a certain sense, to russia, which has declared that it will not accept an agreement in the security council that is not negotiated with serbia. i hope that the presidency can make a contribution in the form of an active dialogue with serbia after the elections next week or at the end of this week with the new government there, but also using the good relations with moscow to seek a solution acceptable to all. in any case, we reject the comparison sometimes made by moscow: the european union is also committed to the development of the kosovo issue and the conflicts in other parts of europe. that brings me to my second point. you made a number of remarks on relations with russia. we agree with the search for a balanced approach which should address economic relations, energy, human rights, but also the situation in russia itself and the question of a number of conflicts in the shared neighbourhood. i hope that you will be able to work on these three issues in a balanced way in the coming months, also in the context of the negotiations on a new partnership agreement. i think that the european union should now make an effort to help find solutions to the transnistrian problem, and then we are talking about moldova, but also about the problems in georgia. these are three key elements, and i hope that you will be able to balance these three priorities in the relationship with russia in the coming months.
it is good to reflect today, mr president, on the nightmare in which the five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor have been imprisoned since 1998. a nightmare, as i said, of imprisonment, of torture and a threat of the death penalty. it has also been said before that there is also a nightmare for the parents and the children of benghazi, the 426 children who are infected with hiv. it is good that the european union is concerned about this too. i do not wish to dwell only on our disgust at the way things are now, and our hope for a happy outcome for the six innocent prisoners in the near future. i also want to focus on what it means for our relations with libya. because it is not, of course, that when this is all done right, everything is back to normal. libya is clearly not a state of law. irrefutable proof of innocence was simply set aside by the court. human rights have been trampled on. there was torture. and as for the government, it is sacrificing innocents for its own health care failure and playing games with the international community by dragging lockerbee into it. some kind of compensation for the compensation that gaddafi paid. it's a sick mind that would think that. and what is the point of this finding on that country? the european council calls for closer cooperation with libya in the area of illegal migration. the eu wants joint patrols in the mediterranean. the eu wants an agreement with libya to take back migrants coming from libya to the european union. i'm not in favor of isolation, let's be clear about that. it is right to support and encourage positive developments in libya. but it's a little different to be working together so cleverly. it would be hypocritical to see today that five bulgarian and one palestinian migrant are suffering inhumane injustices in libya and then try to reach an agreement tomorrow on the transfer of more migrants to the libyan authorities. that is cooperation which leads to human rights violations and it is therefore important, as the resolution also states, to reflect on how to proceed.
president. - before the european union was established, we had a good cooperation within europe. there were long-distance cross-border train services, people could buy tickets directly in their own country to distant destinations, and an international railway book was available in every country. that good situation is threatened. the european rail network is increasingly falling apart, following the example of america. the only remaining networks will be urban networks and high-speed lines between the main cities. on 27 and 28 september 2005, at the first reading, this parliament missed a historic opportunity to maintain and strengthen good european coordination and a high level of provision. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. amendment no 37 on passenger rights replaced the right of rail passengers to buy integrated tickets for the whole rail network of the european union with a call for voluntary cooperation. this gives railway companies complete freedom to stop selling tickets and information for long-distance destinations. passenger-friendly offers for travel in and out of the country are increasingly being restricted. last year, three large member states abolished their eurodomino cards, which gave residents of other states better access to their railway networks. interrail cards for travelling around europe, which many young people in particular used to get to know other countries in europe, are increasingly less accessible to high-speed trains over long distances. the european railways are no longer a visible entity to the public. the european railway industry is now being dismantled in the absence of state monopolies and is being divided into a number of companies competing with each other in the same territory. this is the reason why the european union has been able to take a number of important decisions in the past. the european union will not do anything about this as long as it continues to believe that railway undertakings should be managed as commercial companies under article 5 of directive 91/4401 and should therefore regard cost reduction as their priority. that's how we chase the train passengers over the medium distance to the plane. the more public transport is dependent on the market, the less likely it is to survive. not only the rise of the car and the wide availability of motorways, but also the tax exemption for jet fuel and the rise of price-fighters in aviation, lead to rail transport being perceived as proportionately expensive. to survive, it must be made attractive to younger generations. if this generation takes the car and the airplane for granted and views the train as an inaccessible museum piece, the result will be that the railways will only become more loss-making and will have to cut their costs even further. those who expect the railways to be strengthened by abandoning the same competitive mechanisms as air and road transport will be deceived. this development is bad for the passengers, bad for the railway staff and bad for the protection of our environment. i am aware that mr jarzembowski has been fighting for many years for more markets and for more competitive companies to be admitted to the railway more quickly. not only in cross-border freight traffic, but also in domestic passenger traffic. if he does not get his way in the first railway package in 2001, he will fight to get his way in the third package. my group has never supported him in that. my group proposes in amendment no 35 not to follow the jarzembowski report on liberalisation and, if it is adopted, at least to allow the member states to restrict competition. that is possible by adopting the like-sounding amendments nos 33, 34 and 36. as regards the sterckx report, in our amendments nos 70 to 73 we support the wishes of the european consumer organisation. finally, mr president, the savary report alone, which makes it easier for train drivers to cross borders and work under different technical conditions, is a valuable contribution to the integration of european railways.
mr president, the last few months have shown that there is a very different opinion on the third railway package. in any case, this applies to the council and this house. i can understand the council's reluctance, given the differences between member states and the distribution of powers within europe. i can relate to that, for the most part. that does not mean that the council has not chosen the best solution for the future in all respects. the reports by mr sterckx and mr savary contribute to this. that is not the case with mr jarzembowski's report. the balance between future market opening and the existing situation which the council had found in my view is broken in this report. the amendments in this report lead to a situation where all passenger transport services can be provided simultaneously in different ways, albeit in stages. this may result in cherry-picking of profitable lines at the expense of less profitable ones, lower quality of service and potential safety risks. by allowing member states to choose between different competition models, the disadvantages mentioned above can be avoided. i have tabled two amendments to that effect on behalf of my group. in addition, it is important to respect existing agreements on rail services with limited duration. that is why i do not think amendment no 18 is desirable. i hope, mr president, that we will reach a good decision tomorrow, but i am not sure that we will.
for the time being, a large majority of this house seems to want to stick to the opening up of a railway network for both crossborder and national transport, and frankly that is not surprising. so far, further market operation in public transport has shown us that this produces 25% more public transport for the same money. i do think that amendment no 37 is very important in this context. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway companies are able to compete with each other. the so-called concession model is an important form of market operation which can simultaneously focus on safety, efficiency, a coherent timetable and sound financial management. i would therefore ask the rapporteur, following the example of the shadow rapporteur, my colleague mr ortuondo larrea, to support amendment no 37 in its entirety. finally, a few words on amendment no 18. unlike the rapporteur, i believe that contracts for international passenger services which have already been awarded under an open commercial and fair procedure, and therefore only in those cases, mr rapporteur, should be respected. frankly, i think this is simply a matter of good governance. if existing contracts with private parties have to be broken, member states could face a claim for damages of hundreds of millions of euros and that is frankly not exactly the message i would like to send to the european public as a parliament. the alde group will therefore reject amendment no 18 and i would ask the rapporteur to do the same.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road users is not compromised. this is not just about roadblocks or blocking cars from residential areas and strengthening public transport. densely populated areas with many pedestrians and cyclists have different requirements for car use than sparsely populated areas with long quiet roads. vehicle visibility is different in areas with lower sunlight than in areas with high sunlight. this means that, for example, any requirement for cars to have their lights on during the day is good for road safety in one area and bad in another. for other matters, however, it is best to seek a uniform regulation at european level, such as unambiguous road signs, blind spots, guardrails which do not pose any additional danger to motorists, or protection of drivers against fatigue due to excessive driving time. i regret that the rapporteur has withdrawn the proposals on mobile phones at the wheel, road safety education and the danger of snow on car roofs. otherwise it is a good and complete report which my group supports.
i am glad, mr president, that we can vote this week in strasbourg on the first five-year review of the cotonou agreement, which we concluded in 2000 for a period of 20 years. this agreement covers 78 countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific and covers some 750 million people. it is a partnership agreement on aid and trade and serves as a model for the eu's sustainable relations with its development partners. europe as a soft power in conflict prevention, good governance and the fight against corruption; together with the eu member states we can make a difference in the mdgs. almost eur 24 billion is available from 1 january 2008 for a period of six years. this is half of the total eu development budget. it is therefore good that parliament exercises control over the spending of the european development fund, but unfortunately, commissioner, this edf budget is not in the eu budget. that is what you would have wanted as a commission, and that is what we would have wanted as a parliament. if the role of the european parliament is to be meaningful, you will have to come to concrete agreements with us, together with the council - and unfortunately the council is not here - as we have done with the dci. let us shape the national policy documents of the acp countries, which include almost the whole of our african policy, in the same way as we have done in the development cooperation instrument. this means that parliament is informed in good time so that it can give its input to national policy documents. that means a clear and transparent process and an open dialogue between the council, the commission and parliament. this means input and control for parliament in both programming, implementation and evaluation of the country policy documents. that means that the representatives of the people are not distant here, but neither are the parliaments in those countries, nor the society there. look, ownership is wonderful, but it's not just the finance minister in such a country, it's also the parliament, the government, the society. if we do that, we get opinions from the people involved that are taken seriously, before the policy is even signed and agreed. we want to get rid of the situation where we are all talking about the mdgs, but africa is falling behind in the mdgs, and it turns out that we are actually just filling in the gaps in the road, however useful that may be. we also want to put the mdgs at the heart of the acp countries. give our parliament democratic influence over the edf, which is half the total eu development budget. that is what you as commissioner and the council are getting out of this. support democracy in europe. i ask you what steps the commission and the council are going to take to achieve this.
i have received a request from the rapporteur, mr president, to withdraw the split vote we have requested for paragraph 6 in favour of an oral amendment. namely, instead of gender perspectives the term equal treatment of men and women. i would like to grant this request from mrs záborská.
in writing. while the cuts continue and both regional and international rail services continue to be reduced, all political forces are now calling for more passenger and freight transport to be taken over by rail. their recipe is that of road freight and airline price-fighters. they decouple rail management from service delivery, and hope that private enterprises will lead to lower prices, customer-friendly behaviour and attract more customers. i think that approach will not ultimately achieve what is expected of it today. the focus will be on cost reduction, by closing lines, thinning services, raising fares and cutting out the many loss-making customers. the liberalization plans of mr jarzembowski are not sufficiently compensated by the defeated savary and sterckx reports. the savary report is urgently needed to reduce the technical problems with crossborder trains which have arisen since the electrification. the sterckx report throws out the possibility of forcing railway companies to make crossborder services more accessible and to maintain them. only for people with disabilities does it mean an improvement.
i am not going to go into the details of the amendments. first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner dimas and the president of the council, mr gabriel, on their proposals and their inspiring speeches. the campaign of al gore and the report of sir stern have in particular brought climate change to the forefront of attention in recent months. that means that now is a good time to take substantial steps forward. europe must take a real lead in the climate debate and the action to be taken. it is now important that the recent proposals of the european commission be taken up not only by the environment committee and the environment council, but also by the heads of government of the member states. the climate problem is so vast that it will require continued attention in the coming decades. since climate change and its global warming cannot be easily slowed down, only rigorous action will have a sufficient impact. this requires a shift to zero- and low-carbon fuels. so, in practical terms, this means that we have to say goodbye to fossil fuels. the european parliament has already stated that europe must achieve a 30% co2 reduction by 2020. however, the european commission has proposed a 20% reduction to allow for negotiation with the aim of reaching a global agreement, which would then require a 30% reduction in emissions in europe. i would like to hear from commissioner dimas why he thinks this tactic will be successful. i would like to ask you, mr president, for a little more time, because i have not been able to speak at a normal pace.
president, commissioner, mr gabriel, i really hope that we can agree on the proposal to limit co2 emissions from cars to 120 milligrams and that further reductions are made in second generation fuels. because it's very necessary -- a lot of people are very, very concerned about climate change. and tomorrow, the united nations will announce that the earth is warming even faster than we previously thought. europe must show leadership in solving the problem. that is why it is important that we really stick to that 30% and that we do not say we are going for 20% if the rest of the world is not going to join. it is very disappointing that we are making ourselves dependent on other countries in this way. there are a number of good reasons for this: first, we have a moral responsibility to the rest of the world. we caused climate change, and we need to fix it. secondly, according to the stern report, it is many times cheaper to pursue a strong climate policy now than to pay the costs of adapting to warming later. climate policy offers many opportunities for innovation and employment.
mr president, the industry will certainly notice that drastic measures are being taken. the emission allowances will have to be reduced annually and the free allocation of emission allowances will have to be ended. moreover, an increasing number of sectors will have to be covered by the mandatory emissions trading system. it is therefore positive that the european commission wants to add the aviation sector to the emissions trading system. not only producers but also consumers must take their climate responsibility. i mean, all of us. finally, i would point out that we must not approach the climate problem in a one-sided way. measures must therefore not lead to further damage to the environment. the production and combustion of biofuels must be environmentally friendly, and this has not been the case with palm oil. we must prevent environmental crimes like this from happening in the future.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am always very touched when i hear how attached the council and the commission are to involving parliament, because it is indeed true that in the area of counter-terrorism policies, the decision-making is profoundly undemocratic because it totally excludes the european parliament, and national parliaments are only very partially involved. therefore i would have a solution to offer you, and that is not just to make solemn pledges here before the house, but to actually consult parliament on a voluntary basis on the mandate for negotiations on pnr and swift, because that would not only lend democratic legitimacy to such a mandate: it would also actually strengthen your negotiating position, because frankly, although i have a high appreciation for the officials who do the actual negotiations, i think matters of such importance should have a political mandate. secondly, i fully agree with the remarks made by mrs roure on the need for global standards on data protection. people who think that we are anti-american are wrong. i have actually seen how attached the americans are to their privacy laws, which are very good, and how critical they are when the public authorities do not respect the rules on privacy. so i think we should take their critical attitude as an example. i would like to know if commission and council are aware of other categories of data being accessed by the us authorities, not only passenger data and swift data, but also, for example, telecommunications records and insurance company or social security records, and if not by the us authorities, by other countries. if you are not aware of this, maybe you should start investigating. with regard to pnr, swift and ats, i will not repeat here all the expectations that we have of the pnr negotiating mandate. that has been said already. but i would like to know why the commission and the council did not bother to insist on a second joint evaluation of the implementation of the pnr agreement before agreeing on a new negotiating mandate. would it not make sense to first evaluate how this one works and how effective it has been before we start talking about the next one? i would also like to know what the state of play is with regard to the switch from push to pull, which was scheduled for december 2005, december 2006. it is now january 2007. where are we on this point? i would also like to know what the state of play is with regard to information to passengers. i have been travelling myself lately and i could not get any information on the matter. i would also like to know on what basis the european commission will actually be negotiating an agreement on swift. finally, with regard to ats, you get a letter from the department of homeland security saying, ‘do not worry, we comply with the pnr agreement as we understand it’. i am not a lawyer, but i think that is rather a funny formulation. it does not reassure me and i would like further reassurances about profiling and data-mining. does it take place? i should like to know about the discrepancy with regard to storage periods and about purpose limitation. what other data are being fed into this and what are the exceptions as regards the privacy act?
the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. so i was actually going to continue on what she just said. mr president, i still feel that we are getting a little too far behind the facts. when it became clear that the united states was collecting credit card and other personal data from our passengers, it was a scandal, then we as parliamentarians wanted a regulation and the governments really didn't want anything, except that they wanted that if a law was broken, it happened quietly; and then eventually they were forced into some kind of action. then swift comes along, the same story again - the government is doing a little bit of research, then there will be some sort of action, i hope - and the question is indeed: now, are we confident that this is it? the european commission is quite clear on this point and says: well, i'm not aware of it, but consider it possible. i would also like to have an answer from the council. do you think it's possible, and what are you going to do now to make sure? we always say, we are partners of the united states and we are. we're partners. we have a lot of work to do together. but that also means you have the right to know what your friends are doing. so i would like to hear from the council how it is going to deal with it now, to know exactly what data is being collected from our citizens in various areas. the council has just said that it is difficult to conclude a new agreement, because the united states is not very keen on data protection. there is, however, a limit to the blackmail we can accept. you can 't say: we must reach an agreement at all costs if at a certain moment the price we have to pay is too high. it might be funny to draw a line at some point, just when the bottom has been reached - yes, landing rights are at risk - but it will also mobilise a lot of resistance, also in the united states, because it is simply true that the government in the united states is very keen to continue this, but there is a lot of support for our position among parliamentarians.
president, commissioner frattini, you have been very clear in your commitment to the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore not possible, mr president, to sit in the negotiating chair with 780 members of the european parliament. it's not working. but it does mean that the council must be ambitious in the negotiations. and i hear the council mostly sketching the lions and the bears you might encounter on the road. but do you also agree with the negotiating approach outlined by commissioner frattini, because we will also adhere to it? now, this is swift, and swift is not a bank, but that doesn't mean that that's a license to not take the privacy rules seriously and not follow them. it is good that you are investigating, commissioner frattini, but you will also have to take legal action quickly to solve the vacuum, because swift data exchange must also be able to stand the test of european privacy rules. the fight against terrorism must also be able to investigate financial transactions in that context, because that can be the trail to terrorist organisations. i find that many citizens have a much greater understanding of the difficult dilemmas we face in this area. we can't solve this in one afternoon. i am very surprised, for example, that the rules on liquids in aircraft have not caused much more commotion. but we can't use all this as an excuse. we need to negotiate firmly. i would also like to support mr radwan's suggestion that this should also be dealt with more broadly in the context of the g7.
i am delighted to see this green paper on our parliamentary agenda. obesity is a growing problem. there are more and more obese people who are at a much higher risk of cardiovascular disease. i am convinced that in areas where europe can really make a difference, such as nutrition labelling, we must also take real action. finally, a great responsibility lies with the member states themselves, which must make a 100% effort to ensure that their populations eat healthier, but above all that they exercise more. because that's where the big problem lies.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). it could mean: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. developing countries could also benefit greatly from all these advantages. the commission should encourage them to adopt this approach - and the same applies to fair competition rules - first at national or regional level, as we have done in europe, and not immediately to the whole world and the big monopolies. it should then be up to the developing countries to decide when they feel they are strong enough. what applies to everyone else in the world, mr president, is that there must be no forced large-scale procurement that excludes small and mediumsized enterprises. unfortunately, i myself witnessed an example of this at a train station in amsterdam, where the security service for the station was contracted out. the company that was previously responsible for security at the station was a small company and did so with great success; however, when the tender was launched, the company proved too small to bid for the overall contract for many of these stations and was therefore excluded. i have no doubt that my colleagues have encountered similar examples. we therefore ask the commission how to ensure that smes have better access to procurement. finally, the forced opening up of national public and semi-public services to large foreign providers is wrong. every country has the right to decide what it wants to keep public. the basic services, such as education and water, are at the heart of society and must not be compromised.
in writing. the vast problem of people who today are still considered unchaste and thus 'untouchable' is distressing. the social segregation that dalits are subjected to is similar to the former apartheid in south africa. the largest group of these "untouchables" live in india, over 160 million people. they are often excluded from basic services such as education, health care and clean drinking water, are denied ownership of land and are regularly subjected to violence and exploitation. i therefore vote in favour of this resolution, which urges the indian government to do more to effectively eliminate caste discrimination and promote equal opportunities. it is good that the european parliament is now making concrete proposals to do something about this structural discrimination against a population group. as the prime minister of india himself said on december 27, 2006: "dalits have faced a unique discrimination in our society that is fundamentally different from the problems of minority groups in general. the only parallel to the practice of 'untouchability' was apartheid in south africa". i hope that the eu will discuss this in its relations with india and work to eradicate this grave social evil.
the socialist group, on behalf of the pse group, would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the work he has done in the committee. the problem is very large and we have a major role to play in it as the european union, as the member states, as the european council. so it's important to have that debate. but there is a major problem, which our colleague has rightly pointed out. you were quite right to ask the council and the commission to make a statement. i now understand that we are due to debate on wednesday evening and that the council and commission will not be there or will not be making a statement. we'll argue amongst ourselves, and that would be a real shame. i therefore wholeheartedly support the request on behalf of the social democrats, but i very much hope that we can also have a serious debate in which the council and the commission participate. because ultimately, it's what gives our debate its hands and feet and makes it politically meaningful.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the rapporteurs, mrs jackson and mr blokland, for their excellent reports, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i also thank mrs gutiérrez and the committee on industry, research and energy for the opinion they delivered at first reading. waste policies play a fundamental role in reducing the environmental impact of the use of natural resources. the aim of the thematic strategy and the draft directive is, in principle, to prevent the generation of waste and, to the extent that this cannot be avoided, to minimise its impact on the environment and health. over the past thirty years the european union has developed a significant waste policy and legislation to protect public health and the environment. the commission's proposal to revise the waste directive seeks to adapt the legislative framework to today's environmental challenges. the modernisation of this policy takes account of the progress made in the field of eco-innovation and builds on our latest knowledge on the sustainable use of natural resources. the proposed package of measures aims at:- firstly, reducing the environmental impact of waste throughout its life cycle. - secondly, to make waste prevention a priority. this requires action at national, regional and local levels. member states should implement waste prevention policies through mandatory national programmes. this is expected to help reverse the current trend of increasing waste volumes. national targets will also help to reduce waste at community level. - thirdly, the promotion of recycling by setting standards to ensure the quality of recycled materials. this will create confidence in recycled materials and increase their demand within the internal market. we propose that this be done through the criteria for declassifying waste. - fourthly, the proposed measures also aim at modernising and simplifying waste legislation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the aim of the strategy and the directive is to achieve a balance. maintain what has been proven to work over the last 30 years, while modernising the legislative framework for the coming decades. in conclusion, i would like to make two important remarks on the waste framework directive: - first, the text to be drawn up by the codecision procedure must be clear and provide legal certainty. some of the amendments tabled do not provide this legal clarity, particularly those concerning the distinction between recovery and disposal. - secondly, in order to be environmentally effective, this legislative act must retain its character as a framework directive. in other words, it must be a stable and clear legal framework which, at the same time, provides sufficient flexibility to adapt to the changing needs of the times.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste management strategy is implemented. i do not want to do this without first thanking the members for the good cooperation and the unanimous support just mentioned. you'd think waste would not be a controversial topic in this house. the resolution adopted by the committee on the environment aims to give a clear direction to future waste policy, which is primarily aimed at protecting the environment and public health. the committee on the environment has a broad consensus on the principles of the precautionary principle, the polluter pays principle, self-sufficiency, proximity and producer responsibility. i am sorry to say, however, that the drafting of the report deviates from the principles mentioned. let me give you an example. there is broad agreement on the five-step waste hierarchy, so prevention first, then reuse, then recycling, then useful use, and finally disposal. this waste hierarchy is reflected in both mr jackson's report and my report. however, amendments have been tabled which mean that the waste hierarchy can be used in such a flexible way that it can also be completely avoided. i would urge that we stick to paragraph 16 of the resolution, which states that the only way to deviate from the waste hierarchy is if a certified life cycle analysis clearly demonstrates that this is more environmentally friendly. another issue is that of changing definitions. the change of definitions is mainly intended to clarify and to provide a service to the environment. the change of definitions is not intended to make it easier to achieve objectives, to improve the image or to conquer the market. i would like to mention two important examples of this, namely by-products and the distinction between useful use and disposal. first of all, the by-products. paragraph 10 of the resolution states that we must be very careful about declassifying waste. when something is no longer waste, it is no longer covered by the waste protection legislation. then the waste can be transported anywhere. the creation of a new category of so-called by-products therefore poses an additional danger. it is not clear what regime this falls under and the use and misuse of this category will increase enormously. second point: disposal versus useful use. there has been a debate for years about the difference between recycling and disposal. the debate focuses on the question of when incineration of mainly household waste can be called recovery. the aim has always been to make a clear distinction. paragraphs 12 to 14 of the resolution contain the opinion of the committee on the environment. waste destined for energy recovery or incineration must in any case comply with the emission standards of the waste incineration directive. the committee also believes that the same environmental standards should apply to both incineration and co-incineration of waste, i.e. the same emission standards and the same criteria for energy efficiency. and i have also come to the conclusion that it is better to think of incineration as disposal. the objective of incineration is always disposal. this provides the necessary clarity and is in line with the judgments of the european court of justice. the final paragraph, as formulated in paragraph 31 of the resolution, is a ban on the dumping of combustible waste and waste that can be reused and recycled. finally, i would ask the european commission to take note of paragraph 30 of the resolution. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the directive on the disposal of waste. this has been in the sixth environmental action programme since 2002 and it is high time that the european commission launched these proposals. in this way we can come to a well-regulated recycling society.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, waste is a growing problem in europe and beyond. we are in danger of slowly drowning in our own waste. it is therefore high time that we took strong action before the waste problem literally overwhelmed us. it is important to remember that waste has become a commercial product, and we see the negative consequences of this. one third of the most lucrative waste shipments are illegal, physical checks show. so we need a new strong policy, but we must also use the right methods. reducing, reusing, recycling waste, these are good sustainable directions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one. a good waste policy should solve problems and certainly not create new ones.
i have just explained my report on the waste strategy on behalf of the committee on the environment and i pointed out that it is important to keep the principles of the resolution in mind when revising the waste framework directive. this means that we don't have to start with a new confusing concept called by-product. this also means that we should not take incineration of waste too lightly as a useful application. i do not want to see all kinds of incineration plants being closed down immediately as a result of amendment no 57. i do think, however, that the idea of amendment no 57, namely to include energy efficiency criteria in a permit, can be very good for both the environment and the climate. i therefore call for support for the idea so that it can be further developed and improved. finally, i wholeheartedly support the proposals for landfill bans, for reusable and recyclable waste, and the proposals to promote the composting of organic waste.
president. - i thank the two rapporteurs. they've both done a really good job on this complicated case. our waste mountain is still growing, and it is certainly the wrong direction, because we must move towards a world without waste, a world where all discarded products and packaging materials are the raw materials for new products, where raw materials do not lose their value and where recycling is not downcycling. the new framework directive is a step in the right direction. the waste hierarchy says that we're going to start by preventing waste, and if we still generate waste, then we're going to focus on reuse, and then recycling. today, 34% of waste is recycled and this proportion can and must increase. i think there are two things that are important. first of all, the responsibility of producers. they must be given greater responsibility for the prevention and treatment of waste. they will have to focus on reuse and recycling. this producer responsibility needs to be further elaborated and may take the form, for example, of a take-back obligation. second, a world without waste is unfortunately still a long way off. the waste that is generated despite recycling and prevention must be used as efficiently as possible. landfilling is certainly not efficient, but unfortunately 50% of the waste in the european union is still landfilled. this has got to stop. in any case, incineration may be more efficient than dumping. modern waste incineration plants can use waste to make useful use of it by extracting energy from it. so the choice is not recycling or incineration. we need to maximize recycling. but in the coming years, it can't be 100% recycled, so the choice is between dumping or incineration. and then it's better to go for combustion with energy recovery. and that has to be done very efficiently, so we can at least save a lot of co2.
the european parliament today adopted the waste directive, which requires the amount of waste to be stabilised between 2008 and 2012 and the european waste production to be significantly reduced by 2020. i agree with the conclusions, but i also urge the european parliament itself to set the right example. all citizens have a responsibility here. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the european union. firstly, it would be a great step forward if we reduced the number of working languages from 23 to 2 or 3, because despite all the technologies we use, the european parliament still produces large quantities of paper, 99 per cent of which is destined for the waste basket. secondly, there is now all the more reason to designate brussels as the seat of the european parliament. the monthly relocation of parliamentarians and staff to strasbourg is not only a waste of money, it also creates co2 emissions. thirdly, we must replace the staff cars for the european parliament. now the group chairmen are driving mercedes and audi's. however, there are many more fuel-efficient cars. i propose we get rid of these polluting cars and replace them with their fuel-efficient hybrid brothers. i hope that this will also be an incentive for german car manufacturers to comply with european standards.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the common agricultural policy. i cannot think of a better valentine's day present for women in turkey than the adoption of the report on women's rights tomorrow. there are 40 million women in turkey. they want the chance to develop and create a better situation for themselves. my report alone will not achieve that, but it is a means for the women and the women's movement in turkey to claim their rights vis-à-vis husbands and fathers, the turkish government and the european union. my report builds on the findings of the past year. i've been looking at what's been done and what hasn't been done. the legislation is now largely in order, although there is still work to be done in this area as well. the second step is to create a framework in which the legislation can be implemented, i.e. sufficient funds and a well-trained public administration. a government that is committed and shows it publicly. only when the second step has been taken can the third step be taken properly. this means that women also experience an improvement in their lives. so we're not there yet. the second step is still being worked on and women are therefore still seeing too little of the improvements in practice. the government's commitment is there. two years ago, women's rights weren't really an issue. now prime minister erdogan opens almost every speech with it. the various ministries are also paying more attention to women's rights. our report last year contributed to this and we as a parliament can be quite proud of that. there are also better government instructions on how civil servants and police should deal with women's rights. police and military are trained and circulars give clear instructions to ministries and municipalities. these instructions focus on honour killing and violence against women and that is very much needed. the number of convictions for honour killing is another mixed picture. some judges do punish more severely, others still use reduced sentences. it has to stop. there are other things to be worked on in the report. the fight against violence against women must be the number one priority in public policy for women. we need more shelters. i intend to visit them next year to see if these shelters also meet the quality standards. a committee on women's rights and gender equality is due to be established in the turkish parliament later this year. such a committee is indispensable if legislation is to become truly gender-friendly and is also an important and necessary interlocutor for the european parliament and the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. more objective and accurate data on the situation of women in turkey, in particular on violence, illiteracy and discrimination, is needed. fortunately, turkey and the european commission are currently working together on this. finally, a strong anti-discrimination policy is needed to give women full access to education and the labour market. i would like to say a few words about one compromise amendment tabled jointly by the ppe, pse, alde and gue. i'm sure you've received many letters about it. the use of the words 'kurdish minority' in the report is a matter of concern. the kurds themselves and the turkish government have indicated that they have difficulty with these terms. to avoid confusion, we have now chosen to say that all women, regardless of race, regardless of language, regardless of origin, religion or political belief, should have access to women's rights programmes. i therefore call on you to support the compromise amendment. ladies and gentlemen, 2007 will be an important test for turkey to see how seriously this country takes the emancipation of women. there are parliamentary elections in november. there are far too few women participating in politics at the moment. it's not like they're not there. i have spoken to women from almost all political parties two weeks ago, but they are not on the electoral rolls yet. how turkey handles this is up to turkey. but if women's political participation does not increase, turkey cannot say that it did not know what to do. the report makes suggestions including temporary positive discrimination measures. temporarily, because i am convinced that once women become more visible in politics, this will have a snowball effect. girls need role models so they can see that a career in politics is also for them. i have hope for the women in turkey. turkey is on the right track, but it should not now turn back. that is why i call for reforms to be accelerated and also for them to be implemented. the accession negotiations with the eu can act as a catalyst. i hope that our report will also contribute something. i want to thank you all in advance for your support. i'm sure the women in turkey will be grateful to you, too.
deputy author mr president, commissioner, i am here to ask questions on behalf of martine roure, said el khadraoui, edith mastenbroek and willi piecyk. i'm just filling in for edith mastenbroek who couldn't be here tonight. the council has adopted commission regulation (ec) no 1448/2006 on aviation security, which contains a secret annex with restrictive measures on liquids that passengers are allowed to carry on aircraft in their hand luggage. can the commission explain and illustrate, firstly, how the secrecy of the annex can be brought into line with the democratic principle of publicity of the law? what sanctions are applied in the case of refusal to follow or of breach of the rules? how is it intended to avoid arbitrariness in the practical implementation of a secret rule and its exceptions? secondly, does this text provide for the passengers' right to information and right of appeal? how can airline passengers challenge decisions and sanctions taken on the basis of the new hand luggage rules on the spot or at a later stage and look for legal remedy? thirdly, what is the justification for these measures? did the commission carry out an evaluation of the information and evidence presented by the united kingdom's secret services when requesting these restrictions? was specialized expertise gathered before the decision was made? are the measures based on proper risk assessment and will they yield an appropriate reduction of security risks? will they be evaluated after implementation? fourthly, have these measures been subject to an impact assessment on fundamental rights? have they been deemed compatible with citizens' rights, the free movement of persons and goods? on what grounds are these measures to be considered proportionate and necessary in a democratic society in compliance with the european convention on human rights? have these measures been subject to an impact assessment on consumer rights and the practical impact on airport operations and passenger flows? was there any prior assessment of the extra costs consumers and airports will face after the implementation of the new rules? fifthly, the aviation security implementing rules are developed by the aviation security regulatory committee, established by commission regulation (ec) no 2320/2002. this committee only gets external advice from the stakeholder advisory group on aviation security. it is an informal body of aviation industry stakeholders. would the commission agree that this body needs to be formalised as requested by parliament during the first reading of the ongoing revision of regulation (ec) no 2320/2002? would the commission accept the idea that this committee also needs to systematically take into account appropriate expertise on civil rights and consumer interests? last but not least, if i may add one personal question, commissioner: what happened to my almost-new shaving gel that was confiscated at brussels zaventem airport?
on behalf of the alde group. - mr president, a secret and meaningless regulation with a secret annex has meant that since 6 november 2006 the liquids can only be carried in very limited quantities in hand luggage. air passengers who are dependent on medication may carry it on board the aircraft as necessary. these passengers must carry proof of this and if, on arrival, it turns out that the luggage has not arrived yet again and you cannot therefore have the rest of the medicines you need, then you are out of luck. you'll be on heavy medication. there is no indication of where passengers can possibly lodge a complaint or appeal in the event of misconduct by, for example, security staff. there is no single interpretation in the 27 member states at present. if mozzarella is considered suspect in member state a, there is no problem in member state b. and so, commissioner, that confusion of the passenger you just mentioned, it still exists despite the fact that there are european regulations. clearly, the measures are far from watertight. i try again and again at random airports and still manage to get a bottle of about 200 ml through security. democratic societies are open societies. and that openness makes them attractive and successful, but unfortunately also vulnerable. the tendency to reduce vulnerability to terrorist attacks by imposing more rules on society and allowing less privacy here and there seems understandable to many people in the first instance. but where's the line? the reason seems to be so slow to find. the threat must not be underestimated, of course, but to what extent does that threat justify the far-reaching measures that have been announced in recent years at a rapid pace and whose effectiveness is far from clear? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, do all the measures taken and planned really provide us with additional security, or is it mainly a form of pseudo-security that is introduced and paid for? the hand luggage rules have been in place for over three months now. i would like to know from the commission and the council, who are unfortunately not here tonight, whether they consider the rules to be effective and, if so, on what basis? containers of shower gels, alcohol, bottles of water, lotions, etc., have been collected and destroyed. what does it get us, commissioner, other than a considerable cost and a lot of irritation? are you still convinced that these rules are a bitter necessity in the fight against terrorism? is it a permanent or a temporary measure? and if temporary, what's the definition of temporary? and finally, yes, of course the procedure followed is lawful, no one doubts that. but do you really think that this procedure is the right expression of european democracy? do you think that this procedure is adequate for what we mean by democracy in the european union?
mr president, another sound. it would be shortsighted to think that european policy in this age of globalisation only affects our own citizens. when europe changes its policy on the wine sector, it affects many other people outside europe. people who are losing out on income because of unfair competition in the european wine sector. it is therefore necessary to make policy coherent across the board. the commission's proposals for reform of the wine sector are a step in the right direction. as vice-chairman of the committee on development and as a social democrat, i am therefore very disappointed that the report by the committee on agriculture ignores european development policy and fair trade. the report says that it is necessary to keep the wine sector out of the negotiations in the world trade round. the report says that the difficulties in the wine sector are caused by increasing imports from third countries. in the meantime, the commission must take all kinds of measures to protect our wine sector. why should we take from developing countries with one hand what we give with the other hand in european development policy? why would we want to close our markets to fair competition? let the customer decide what wine he wants to drink, whether it is a french bordeaux, a south african chardonnay or a chilean merlot. fair trade with other countries does not preclude a competitive european wine sector. but protectionist wine policies exclude tens of thousands of people who depend on fair trade in wine with europe for their daily bread. that is why i would like to drink a south african glass of "great happiness" with you and say, "to a coherent european policy; i support the commission. cheers to you!"
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. since the rejection of the constitution in the netherlands, a debate has been raging in my country about europe's unnecessary interference in matters which the member states can best manage themselves. almost all the dutch parties have indicated that they believe that the member states should have more freedom in matters which do not necessarily need to be regulated by europe. the european commission has now finally come up with a proposal. it is not perfect, but it is a good start to give member states more freedom in spending agricultural money and without jeopardizing the income position of small farmers. to my surprise, almost all the dutch parties voted against this proposal last time. i call on all my colleagues to vote in favour this time and to put their words into action.
i would like to begin by thanking mr goepel and mr bösch. they've done an excellent job, as i've already said. this debate is not just about the subject, voluntary modulation, it is also about parliamentary democracy, namely what are the rights of this parliament in the field of rural development and so on. i would also like to thank commissioner fischer boel. it has always been open to parliament and has always spoken frankly in individual talks. a lot of things have been said. why am i against the system of voluntary modulation? firstly, it is a direct attack on the common agricultural policy, which is wrong. secondly, it is too light-hearted in its treatment of parliament's budgetary powers. the commission must manoeuvre between the council and parliament. we adopted the financial perspective in may of this year. in the financial perspective parliament has made its position on voluntary modulation clear. the commission's proposals contain only the council's views. i find that a reprehensible case. the wishes of parliament have hardly been taken into account. and i don't think it makes a lot of sense. at a time when everyone in europe is talking about involving citizens more in europe, the european commission is completely ignoring the position of parliament! i am glad that the commissioner's words at the end implied that a compromise was possible. of course, parliament can also be found for a compromise. we are also in favour of rural development, but we are also in favour of these common markets. these two key concepts are the ones we must try to find a solution to. is it possible to make an exception for certain countries, as has been done in the past? is it possible in the future to make more intelligent use of compulsory modulation and to target it on specific needs, as parliament has done in the past? you could do that with the health check, for example. if we vote on this proposal tomorrow and parliament's position is confirmed once again, then the time has come for the commission to take the initiative for a compromise which is feasible and acceptable to the council and parliament. the rights of parliament and the council in the field of rural policy are exactly the same and the commission would be well advised to take parliament's views into account.
madam president, the dutch social democrats will vote tomorrow against the goepel report and against the continuing blockade of a new agricultural policy. we must break the deadlock between the council and parliament. new projects for europe's rural areas must not be jeopardized. it is a matter of giving the member states the opportunity to allocate more money to this purpose within a european strategy for rural areas, landscape and nature. the future of european agricultural policy is to reduce income support, starting with the largest farmers, but at the same time to invest more in rural areas. by choosing to block the budget again, with the pressure of blocking 20% of the rural budget, parliament would be choosing to repeat the same mistakes, when we need new policies for all rural inhabitants. by blocking 2.48 billion euros, many good projects are in danger. the netherlands is talking about 14 million, a small amount, but it is a lot for those involved. all these plans for a vital countryside must not be destroyed by a conflict in brussels. we must look for other weapons and the council must also take action. the compromise may lie in more compulsory modulation for all member states. cutting more money from subsidies for the biggest farmers in favour of investing in the countryside. not 5%, as is the case now, but 15% if 20% is too much for the council. and the bigger the farmer, the more modulation. that's reasonable too. let the commission focus on that. the european countryside is now unable to plan and farmers are not sure what to do. that's irresponsible.
mr. president, i'm proud of the work we've done. i had my doubts at first about how much we'd actually get off the ground, especially since it's about covert operations. the bottom is not yet up, but thanks to the efforts of the rapporteur, mr fava, and also to president coelho, both of whom i would like to thank very much, a dynamic of truth-seeking has been established, which is still being pursued in the various member states. there are still people, especially in the governments but also in this house, who would rather let the fog continue and for them this report is not good news, because it does contain facts about people being abducted from european territory, about flights - you see, mr helmer, i do not say 'renditions', i say 'flights' - through europe in planes hired by the cia. the report also reminds us of the hearings in which people have personally reported what has happened to them and it also points out to member states their legal obligations to investigate alleged human rights violations. alleged human rights violations should be investigated. i am very pleased with the reaction of the ppe, mr gawronski, because he said: "there's nothing new in the report". nothing new, i actually agree with that. the big question, of course, is: why does the ppe vote against a report which contains facts that are already known? it is good to look at the past and i hope that at some point governments will have the courage to say that some things have gone wrong in the past. but i agree with commissioner frattini that we must also look to the future. my group therefore wants to have a new debate in six months' time with concrete proposals for the future, on how we should deal with extraditions and with diplomatic guarantees, on the trial of suspected terrorists, on the control of secret services, on perhaps even european control - we can talk about that - of transnational operations. i hope that the ppe can show that she is not just a destructive factor.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr claudio fava. i think he did an excellent job of that difficult job. many facts have been brought to light about the practice of illegal cia flights and kidnappings. that is well documented in the report and the facts - i agree with president coelho - cannot be swept under the table. i commend him for the way he has led the committee. the facts speak for themselves, but they also leave open questions. what did the member states know about the illegal activities? those who were willing to communicate with the committee could not answer all the questions, but at least they tried. others simply refused to address the committee. it is now up to the council to react to the report. it may be that - as the president said earlier - the council has no competence in matters of intelligence, but governments of member states do and national parliaments do, to a greater or lesser extent. further research is needed and that is the main question to the council: i would like to ask you to look further and see whether articles 6 and 7 of the treaty are at issue. i fully agree with commissioner frattini that we need time to look at how we organise our secret services and, in particular, how we democratically control them, and that we also need to have better agreements at european level on the use of our airspace. in the end, it is also a debate on the fight against terrorism and, in particular, on fighting terrorism by other means than those used by the americans. that is not a criticism of america, that is affirming our own values, our own principles, when it comes to the fight against terrorism. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: i wish we were as critical in europe, to be honest. we have no problem with america, but with our own european governments who have been informed of the things that have happened here. the same applies to mr de hoop scheffer, secretary-general of nato, whose absence i regret very much. the council must have the courage to launch its own inquiry under article 7 and finally give answers to the citizens of europe. it is true that we in the european parliament have not found conclusive legal evidence for all the allegations, but we are not a court. but there is a moral obligation on the european governments, who must now answer the questions that remain, because the accusations are extremely serious. i therefore hope that the report will receive the widest possible support in today's vote.
mr president, in december 2005 this parliament decided to set up a temporary committee of inquiry. i objected strongly to that at the time. the council of europe has already carried out an independent investigation. what are the results after more than a year of hearings and investigation? after 130 hearings and a series of trips, the committee of inquiry has come up with little more than dick marty as a lone voice for the council of europe. can you state what the cost of the tdip investigation was and what the cost of the dick marty investigation was? a temporary committee of inquiry cannot force the member states, europol and nato to cooperate. she won't be able to get any more information. failure to cooperate in this investigation shall not lead to suspicion of any member state. the suggestion that member states should be deprived of their right to vote in the council as a penalty for cooperating with the cia is reprehensible. it is time for the european union and the united states to work together against terrorism. the only way to do that is to trust each other. let that be a start now.
mr president, we, the members of this house, have been elected to uphold and protect our common democratic values, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms. that is what we are talking about today, european democracy, in which the rule of law must be upheld as the supreme authority. nothing more, nothing less. i'm not going to do anything. cooperation or consent to the programme of extraordinary rendition and secret prisons, whether tacit or explicit, whether conscious or unconscious, is clearly not in line with what we have all agreed to through international and national law. it should be clear that the obligation to respect, protect and promote human rights is binding at all times. terrorism must and can be fought and defeated through legal means. it is not a question of sacrificing human rights or arbitrarily restricting them. this is the terrorist's play. it is therefore a farce to allow partisan or national interests to prevail in these or to blame it on anti-americanism. my colleague sophia in the field was right. the americans have long since admitted it themselves. the credibility of the european union is at stake. we are talking about a collective responsibility and the council must therefore take its responsibility. mr president-in-office of the council, a limitation in the treaties is no excuse.
mr president, it is extremely difficult to vote when my headphones say we are voting on 66, when the screen says 66 and you say 68. i think we need to hear the same from you, on the screen and in the headphones.
mr president, our voting lists state that amendment no 9 will be void if amendment no 21 by the ppe is adopted. i would ask that amendment no 9 be put to the vote as an addition to amendment no 21. amendment no 21 calls for 20% renewable energy as a starting point and our amendment, the one from the pse group, calls for 25% and a gradual increase. so that could be seen as a complement. if it is put to the vote as an amendment, i would ask our group to vote in favour of amendment no 21.
the rapporteur is quite right to include the high-speed and global internet in the phenomenon of international terrorism. he does so in a paradoxical way: the report also calls for the european union to combat the misuse of the internet for terrorist purposes, and in paragraph 17 the rapporteur refers to the possibility offered by the internet to detect and counter the same evils. the growing number of islamic terror websites is now a matter of urgent concern, as they are the virtual recruitment and training ground for young jihadists in europe. i quote the european intelligence community here: "you can become a terrorist today just by the information on the internet". indeed, all it takes is a simple click of the mouse. this frightening virtual reality requires an intensive and coherent european approach. mind you, internal and external. i therefore ask the commission and the council to inform parliament of the facts in this matter, given the intense threat posed by terrorist websites, of which there are now an estimated 4 500 on the internet, in order to track them down and indeed to combat them in an effective and european manner.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also pleased with the text as it stands. there are a lot of good recommendations, but many of them have been made before, and what is missing is action. a lot of that stuff isn't being done. the economy is picking up, that's true, but this is no time to rest on our laurels. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not go to the trouble of getting our money, but we must keep the budget in order, reduce debt, invest, and i agree with mr bullmann on this point. but this must not take the form that it often takes, namely market-distorting subsidies that replace much-needed reforms. often that's just used as a pejorative, and that's not the point. i am in full agreement with the completion of the internal market. i hope that the services directive, which was far too weak for my taste, will have some effect. labour market measures, there is a lot to be done there too. and i would like to say something about the social model. i think a social model is a model where all europeans get opportunities, but the social model we have now still systematically keeps 8% of people out of the labour market, keeps eastern european workers out of our labour market, keeps immigrants out of our labour market. we'd rather let them drown in the mediterranean than let them in. in the meantime, we are allowing people to work illegally in our markets under the most abominable conditions, almost as slaves. that is not a social model, that is a stain on europe. so as far as i'm concerned, free movement for eastern european workers, right now, and a green card immigration system. finally, some have questioned the merits of greater coordination of national economic policies. we'll have to have another discussion about that. i think it is much better than the current trend of protectionism and competition between member states. because if we as europe want to make a difference in the world economy, we must ensure that we have a strong, open internal market, while also focusing on things that are important for the future, i.e. energy, innovation and sustainable development. we must be the world's leading in this.
i would like to join all those who have congratulated the rapporteur on this excellent report and i am glad that it is also supported by other political groups. the report is to be regarded as a preliminary to the debate which is to take place this year on the revision of the broad economic guidelines. it is very important to make good use of this report, because it contains a number of points which are also very useful in this evaluation. it shall evaluate the performance of the member states and of the european economy as a whole in the light of those recommendations. i would like to make one point different from what commissioner almunia has made. you said that the countries that best comply with the stability and growth pact have done the best. i would put it somewhat differently from my experience in the netherlands, and i agree more with the rapporteur's observation that it is those countries which have combined structural reforms with investment that have done particularly well. i am very pleased that we are now getting a cabinet in the netherlands - the cabinet will be installed this week - which will put investment first in combination with the reforms already implemented, while also treating the standards of the stability and growth pact with care. i think that's a very important basis. a number of recommendations made in these guidelines are also contained in the government agreement now before us, for example on labour market participation of the elderly, of women, of migrant groups. one point is also very important here - and i would like to emphasize this from my political group - namely the emphasis on european coordination, that member states should not act separately, but that a simultaneous, coordinated approach is of great importance. i would therefore strongly recommend that the german presidency also get to work with the proposed interinstitutional working party and, in particular, look there at what can be coordinated at european level in the macroeconomic field. the whole discussion about more coordinated economic and employment policies started in essen 10 or 12 years ago. it is a challenge for germany to follow up on that now.
the european union is not going to be able to do anything about this. hundreds of thousands of people have been killed, two million people have been displaced, looting, murder, rape are part of daily life in darfur. it's almost impossible to truly comprehend the extent of that suffering. in the meantime, despite all the fine agreements, despite all the agreements, human rights violations are getting out of hand. in recent months, the situation has reached a low point for both the population and the aid workers. despite the agreement reached at the beginning of january, large parts of north darfur have recently been deliberately bombed by the sudanese air force, as the commissioner has also said. even aid workers are no longer safe from violence. aid agencies are increasingly feeling the impact of this violence. last month 15 un agencies, including unicef, reported that they could no longer continue to provide adequate aid to the people of darfur. two weeks ago, a first aid organisation (médecins du monde) withdrew, and oxfam and care international are threatening to do the same, while three and a half million darfurians are dependent on humanitarian aid. the council: not present. how long are we going to let this untenable situation continue? the un, while speaking firmly in its resolution, has taken little action so far. the peace force promised in addis ababa two months ago has about 100 soldiers and the rest are nowhere to be found in the fields or on the roads. with the sanctions authorized by the un security council against four key perpetrators of the atrocities, nothing has happened. it is unacceptable that european member states can impose sanctions on war criminals in countries such as belarus, congo, côte d'ivoire, north korea, burma, zimbabwe and leave this in darfur. the council is failing in its humanitarian duty in darfur. the international community must no longer stand by and watch as millions of innocent people are displaced, murdered and raped. europe must take the lead and take urgent action to put an end to the humanitarian crisis in darfur. the sudanese government will only be prepared to make and abide by genuine peace agreements if there is a real threat to its own interests. this government only understands its own language, the language of the fist. in south sudan, an oil boycott has worked. i ask my colleagues from other political parties to use that tool here too if necessary. council, are you prepared to immediately impose sanctions on anyone who violates the ceasefire or attacks civilians, peacekeepers or aid workers? are you prepared to do everything possible to put an end to impunity and finally enforce and implement the sanctions agreed in the security council? are you prepared to enforce the presence of the hybrid peacekeeping force of african union soldiers and blue helmets? finally, are you prepared to impose economic sanctions, including an oil embargo? we did not intervene when the genocide in rwanda was taking place and we watched as the men in srebenica met their end, that while the un was created in '45 to enforce our promise of 'never again'. we can't leave the powerless to their fate. i hope that europe will make a difference. i am speaking in particular to the council, which is not here, and to the commissioner: take action!
on behalf of the ind/dem group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this joint resolution on the international scandal - i should also like to emphasize this - the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. i should like to go into some of the elements. recital c states that the conflict in darfur is increasingly destabilising the central african region. less than a week ago, an analysis of this disturbing situation appeared in my home country, the netherlands, under the telling title "the black hole". indeed, in the heart of africa, there is a black hole, without authority, violent and with a stream of refugees moving in all directions. the immediate danger is that a racist conflict in darfur, in which arab nomads hunt down and kill african farmers, will move to chad with the notoriously murderous janjaweed militias. in several paragraphs the joint resolution calls on the united nations to finally take responsibility in darfur. i can fully support this parliamentary cry for help. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, i must confess that i am extremely sceptical as to whether this alarm signal will really be heard at the un headquarters in new york. earlier this week, the former un envoy to sudan, jan pronk, gave a candid interview to the sudan tribune. he literally judged: "i blame new york for abandoning its own mission and instead going after the power elite in khartoum. it's horrible when you send thousands of people to sudan and leave them there to their fate". let us at least ensure that the pronk accusation does not go unheeded, but reaches our governments, the european council and the united nations security council and calls for action. i also think it is entirely appropriate that this house should call on the people's republic of china to use its considerable political and economic weight vis-à-vis the sudanese authorities to bind khartoum effectively to existing peace agreements. only such a constructive international approach corresponds to beijing's adage of harmonious external relations. we must also expect this from a strategic partner as a responsible member of the united nations security council. finally, as rapporteur for eu-china relations, i have consistently stressed this basic constructive international role to my chinese counterparts. finally, i would like to support the only amendment to the joint resolution and i wholeheartedly support mrs gomes. sanctions against this shameless sudanese regime should certainly include an oil embargo. the test of whether the united nations, in view of the long suffering of the civilian population in darfur, still adheres to its own political principles.
member of the commission. two weeks ago the european year of equal opportunities for all was launched. equal opportunities and the right to live a life free from discrimination are core values on which the european union is founded. the commission is fully aware of the fact that the roma population is among the groups most at risk of discrimination or exclusion from the labour market, society, policy-making or cultural life. the commission is therefore committed to tackling discrimination and exclusion of the roma minority with all the instruments at its disposal. i would like to mention two in particular: firstly, the implementation of the 2000 directive on protection against discrimination on racial or ethnic grounds. the commission wants to ensure that it is incorporated into legislation and correctly applied in all member states. secondly, i would like to mention the use of financial instruments, in particular the structural funds and the european social fund in particular. the commission has asked member states to take account of the roma inclusion objective when drawing up their operational plans for the 2007-2013 funding period. a great effort is needed to raise awareness among the roma population, and the general public, of the right to non-discrimination and to appreciate the benefits of diversity. in this respect, the european year of equal opportunities for all and the ongoing information campaign for diversity and against discrimination are, in our view, particularly useful tools. the commission welcomes the achievements to date of the decade of roma inclusion 2005-2015, which currently involves nine governments from central and eastern european and western balkan countries, including five member states of the european union. for the first time, the national governments of these countries have committed themselves to learning from each other and to exchanging successful strategies to improve the situation of the roma minority in relation to employment, education, housing and health protection. the commission welcomes the fact that all this is being done in close cooperation with roma civil society. but we also need policies that look to the future. the high-level expert group on social inclusion and the labour market of ethnic minorities, set up by the commission, pays particular attention to issues related to the roma population. this group will publish its recommendations later this year and we are confident that these recommendations will provide very valuable information for the design of the future european policy on the inclusion of ethnic minorities, including the roma population. finally, madam president, i would like to point out that the group of commissioners on fundamental rights will be discussing all these issues at its meeting scheduled for july this year.
on behalf of the verts/ale group . – madam president, i will start with a question. when will the eu finally take seriously the situation of its largest minority? fifteen million people in europe remain excluded from basic human rights, such as the right to education, employment or physical integrity, merely because they are roma, or gypsies as most people still call them. one month ago two more countries joined the eu. the treatment given to roma in these countries is far from fulfilling eu norms. as we know from the latest report of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia, the situation is not better in many of the old member states. if we talk about the migration of roma, most of us call to mind pictures of poor, hunger-ridden people who come to disturb us in our comfortable existence, rather than remembering that they have rights. in 1990, under the finnish presidency, the eu adopted a recommendation to the member states that specific attention should be given to the situation of minorities, in particular those who have no home country, meaning the roma. the commission has spent tens of thousands of euros for the improvement of the situation of roma without developing a clear strategy and targeted approach, following the model of other intergovernmental organisations. under these circumstances migration often becomes the last resort for roma.
mr president, one minute is not a long time and i shall use it mainly to express my congratulations, firstly, to the rapporteur, mr montoro romero, whose report we support completely. i hope that he also understands that the three additional amendments we have tabled are additions to and not criticisms of his report, in particular amendment 2, which deals with the current problem of combining funds that are considered under the state aid rules and funding from the eib. this is a problem that i think is worthwhile tackling. therefore, i hope these amendments will be adopted. the remainder of my minute i shall use to congratulate mr maystadt, not only on his good work at the bank, but also on the increase in funds he has recently secured. i really hope that the risk assessments and the controls based on the advanced basel ii rules can be properly executed. i think we shall come back to this issue in a future report.
mr president, i would like to talk about chinese investment activities in africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr maystadt rightly pointed out last november that this is a major issue which the international financial community must address. competition on loan terms is undesirable. finally, all the conditions will be reduced to a minimum, at least as long as there are still conditions in the fields of democracy and human rights. does the eib see any chance of putting pressure on china with the international financial community? in china's credit policy towards africa, too, attention to human rights and democracy should not be subordinated to short-term economic gain. while the european parliament is strongly advocating freedom and human rights in a resolution on relations with china, we would lose our credibility if we did not continue to make these demands a condition for loans to african countries.
madam president, it is clear that our political group and particularly the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs are pretty critical about the procedure. i will not repeat what others have already said on this, but what i would like to stress here is that if as a parliament we have codecision rights on a dossier, we should take every opportunity to really assess what comes out of informal negotiations with the council and commission in a codecision procedure which is likely to go to a first reading agreement. this is why we were a little upset that this dossier is already being dealt with in this sitting rather than in march as had been planned. we would then have been able to discuss an oral question with commissioner mccreevy about ‘one share, one vote’. i hope that we will still have this opportunity and that the committee on legal affairs will also support us in having this further debate with commissioner mccreevy. on the content, the essential difference between a recommendation and a legislative text is precisely this codecision. a letter from commissioner mccreevy to mr gargani, the chairman of the committee on legal affairs, announces that some of the issues we were concerned about will be dealt with in a recommendation. the last line says, ‘you will be informed about this one as a parliament’. this is the exact point we are making. we would like to be co-legislators on that type of issue as well. this is the reason why we are not really happy that some of these issues could not be taken up in the agreement with the council. maybe if we had had more time we could have also convinced the council that this kind of issue, which is of major concern, could have been included in the first reading, second reading or conciliation agreements. these are my comments on what happened today.
mr president, you were actually going a little fast for me. i would like to know from the commission whether it also accepts the amendment which has been tabled.
mr president, now that it appears that the commission has not yet decided how much time it wants to give parliament, i would ask you, as the final vote has not yet been taken, to refer the report back to the committee on social affairs so that some consultation with the commission can take place.
author. - mr president, it is not a good idea for china to see tibet as an integral part of china and for the outside world to take that for granted for a long time. the tibetans represent their own culture in inhospitable habitat, isolated and high in the mountains. china has long been tempted to see this area as a reserve that can accommodate a part of the very large chinese population. this is a problem not only for the people of tibet but also for those of the adjacent and more accessible xinjiang, where the uyghurs, who are related to the turkic-speaking peoples such as the kazakhs, kyrgyz and uzbeks, live. they fear becoming a minority in their own country and losing everything they held dear. the traditional living conditions of tibetans and uyghurs should not be idealized. there is a need for radical innovation, but not for innovation imposed from outside and serving primarily outside interests. because china is the most populous country in the world and a rising economic power, it is highly unlikely that tibet will have the chance to develop into an independent state. this makes it all the more important that, half a century after the great conflict, there should be a reconciliation in which the tibetans in china can retain the parts of their identity which are most precious to them and are no longer in danger of becoming victims of state violence. the ideology of progress that has dominated china for nearly 60 years is now focused primarily on economic growth. it has its drawbacks, but it does offer more room for tolerance and recognition of diversity than it has for a long time. dialogue or cultural identity and self-government within china must be able to produce results. my group supports everything that can contribute to that dialogue and to peaceful solutions.
when france agreed in 1958 to self-determination for its west african colonies, guinea was the only country to opt for immediate and complete independence. in the other eleven colonial-controlled territories, the elite, often outside their own people, chose to continue a close administrative, military and economic link with france. guinea, on the other hand, took its cue from the former british colony of ghana, which had gained independence a year earlier, and which wanted to build an african model of socialism with the strong participation of its own people. leaders sékou touré and kwame n'krumah inspired many africans in their struggle for a better future, where equality and development would replace colonialism and poverty. unfortunately, in both countries, a military coup has put an end to this development. guinea has been ruled by the dictator conté since 1984. the elections organised under his control were boycotted by most parties and the official opposition, which was represented in parliament, was forced to leave parliament. the cntg and ustg are now the main force in the struggle for democracy. the presidential security forces, led by the dictator's son, responded to their demonstration on 22 january by killing 59 people and wounding 150 others. the dictator is increasingly treating the land as his private property. like many other dictatorial countries, guinea is the victim of the struggle for mineral resources between groups who want to appropriate the proceeds. in this case, the natural resources are gold, iron and bauxite. my group supports the resolution, which takes up the demands of the democratic opposition.
president. - i am beginning to get a little tired. i have the impression that we have had this debate a hundred times and that the same arguments are being put forward every time. we've been doing that for years. we do not differ on the importance of social services of general interest. we don't have to discuss that. but i do not share the automatic conclusion that because it is labelled 'social' the market rules should not apply. we are all in favour of subsidiarity, but what does subsidiarity mean? does this mean that countries or local authorities - as we understand it - can decide for themselves how they organise their services, or does it mean - as some people think - that the rules of the market, the rules of fair competition, should not apply? mr president, i am not in favour of legislation where it is not needed. we must identify where the problems are and tackle them. with legislation if necessary. but there is no need for a kind of general call, which i have heard in this parliament for years now, for a legislative framework and a sectoral directive. let us first provide legal clarity, and i refer to the contribution of the committee on legal affairs, which i fully endorse. another thing is that many people think that when the label social is on it, it is always about small services that cannot provide themselves. of course, we should support such services. the treaty does allow that. it is also a question of social housing, for example. it's a billion-dollar business. it may be social, with a social purpose, but it is a lot of money and a lot of interests at stake. then it's about corporations, unions, employers, politicians and so on. the only thing i have not heard about so far is the interest of the citizen as a consumer, as a customer of these services. because that's got to be my priority. competition has in many cases led to better services and better rates, and where necessary, the government can always step in or protect. that is what the treaty says and i see no reason to make a general adjustment now.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am speaking here as the shadow rapporteur on behalf of the alde group in the committee on legal affairs. we broadly support the levai report as it has been adopted. we have a few things to add, because the recommendation is aimed at breaking up the monopolies of management companies and making them more transparent through the controls that should be exercised over them. the compromise amendments are flawed and in some places unclear or inconsistent and even limit the scope of their application. our amendments, which we are voting on tomorrow, are in addition to the report that has been adopted and are designed to make it easier to break up monopolies, to make the market more transparent and yet to ensure that it is workable and that authors and rightholders are entitled to their rights and can recover their royalties. in amendment no 5 we ask the member states to open a public tender for the licences every few years in order to put pressure on the monopolies of the management companies. these monopolies are not a problem in themselves, but at the moment there is no control. a study by the dutch competition authority also shows that there are different starting points in each country. as they are monopoly exposures, there is no control which prevents the identification of exorbitant fees and public expenditure. still, this should be possible. i hope that the amendments we have tabled will succeed. we are also proposing amendments to broaden the scope of the directive. because broadcasting, for example, when we talk about broadcasting over the internet, ipods and so on, falls under copy broadcasting. that's now being restricted. we want to bring it back in order to get as close as possible to the original commission proposal. we now feel that too much attention has been paid to the management companies and too little to the rights holders and authors.
the commissioner said that the idea of crossborder patient mobility was a good idea. patient mobility, however, is something entirely different from commercial healthcare mobility. too often the two are confused. the debate on patient mobility must in no way lead to the undermining of national health systems or to the shifting of responsibilities by member states to ensure good quality and quantity of healthcare in the member states. nor should it lead to the liberalisation of the health market or force patients to seek care outside their own country. patient mobility is a right of the patient and should certainly not be used as an excuse for applying the services directive to health services. this parliament has spoken very clearly against this and would be making itself untrustworthy if it now took a different position.
this morning, dutch newspapers reported that iss, the company we are talking about here, is advising its customers to block the upcoming shareholders' meeting of dsm, a large dutch multinational, from distributing an additional loyalty dividend to shareholders who hold their shares in that company for three years or more. i think that dsm's plan is a great idea to encourage responsible shareholder. the extra dividend may do that, but so can a higher voting weight. that could be another legitimate form. i have therefore always opposed the insistence on the so-called shareholder democracy of the one share, one vote principle. this was first raised in the debate on the takeover directive. the original intention of the 13th directive was not to establish the celestial kingdom of shareholder control on earth, but simply to protect minority shareholders and to give them the right to a fair sale. but a number of fanatical stakeholders have made that one share, one vote idea an absolute, and the biggest advocate is iss. not only for ideological reasons, but also because their business is simply to collect voting rights and provide proxy services to shareholders. with all due respect to the commission's statement, i find it most remarkable that you should put such an investigation in the hands of a party so clearly biased and interested in the matter. i also briefed myself on the conduct of the investigation. i've seen the questionnaires that are going around right now with investment firms on the one hand and corporations on the other. the companies are only asked whether they use certain cems (control enhancing mechanisms) such as pyramid structures, certification, gold shares, etc. however, the approach to investors is very different. they are asked a number of very suggestive questions about their views on all these bad measures. it also allows me to predict the outcome of that investigation. in short, i have already had serious reservations about the outcome of the study and i do not think it can be a good basis for further conclusions and for intentions such as the drafting of a recommendation. let us first examine the reasons why companies have such cems and why, in the present age of hedge fund shareholder activism, there is a renewed need for protection against short-term investor activism. a fundamental debate with this parliament is necessary before the commission intends to develop any measure or any further activity.
mr swoboda, mr andersson and mr guy-quint have called for more initiatives on the subject of a social europe. that is what they lack in these proposals. i would like to continue along the same lines: europe must not only be socially inward looking but also socially outward looking. europe as a global partner dan points out that some of the themes covered in the 2008 work programme lack the development element and the link with development cooperation. i mention agriculture, the revision of the european framework legislation for pharmaceutical companies and maritime policy. we have set the general objective in the european consensus on development, also for this year, to reduce poverty in africa and to achieve the millennium development goals. the fact is that the millennium development goals for africa are going in the wrong direction. what is the commission doing now? the tenth edf, which is currently being programmed and which accounts for half of all development money, has only 2% of the money earmarked for education and 2.5% for health care. that is, of course, inconsistent with the pretensions of this programme of work. a second example. today, commissioner mandelson and others are discussing economic partnership agreements with the ministers of the developing countries and the union's development cooperation ministers. it's a very large file. in fact, our colleagues in the developing countries are now saying: we feel that you are breaking into our markets instead of taking our development as your central point of departure. incoherent again. agricultural policy i'll give you an example from fishing. for the seychelles, fish, and especially swordfish, are essential products to bring to our markets. we are also imposing a non-tariff trade barrier in the form of a very low cadmium level. we allow much higher cadmium levels for our chickens and pigs, while low cadmium levels deter swordfish from the seychelles. this incoherence in many policy areas needs to be addressed in this 2008 programme.
mr president, madam commissioner, president barroso always speaks of a europe of results. i like that phrase but i have to conclude unfortunately that, in the area of fundamental rights, the european commission is falling short of its promises. i remind you once again that, in 2004, mr barroso got the green light for his commission only after a solemn pledge to become the champion of fundamental rights. unfortunately that is not reflected in this document and it is not reflected in the actions of the commission over the last two-and-a-half years. in this area, the commission is timid and reluctant. you should not only defend, but also promote fundamental rights. there are two things in this document which strike me. first, there is an imbalance between your proposals to fight terrorism and your proposals to defend privacy and civil liberties. there is a distinct imbalance there. we urgently need data protection in the third pillar and i wish the commission would push harder for that. even if there is no consensus within the council, then it is still for the commission to show political leadership. do not wait for the council! let the council explain why it cannot agree on data protection in the third pillar. you should make it very clear where you stand. that also goes for the ‘horizontal directive’ that this parliament has called for repeatedly, banning discrimination on all grounds, everywhere and not only in the workplace. we therefore welcome the initiative to combat discrimination outside the labour market. however, i think that, in reality, what we are talking about here is only a consultation. commissioner, show more courage! show more sincere and personal commitment to pushing anti-discrimination legislation. show more leadership, and do not wait for the council. i also have a very practical proposal, which you do not even have to include in your strategic programme. in the context of 2007, the year of equal opportunities, i would like to ask commissioner barroso to do a personal chat session with european citizens on the issue of discrimination and fundamental rights. i would like the commissioner to say whether she will pass on this request, or proposal, to mr barroso and see if he is willing to comply, because that would show his personal commitment to fundamental rights.
the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given the right to decide on the future of the eu. most member states have such a separate arrangement with the usa. the agreement reached on 2 march will bring the bilateral agreements to an end. a huge step forward which i am very much in favour of. these bilateral agreements are an obstacle to free competition if the rights to take off and land are reserved for national airlines. not good for industry and certainly not good for consumers. the court of justice ruled as such in 2002. and now, after years of negotiations, we finally have a fairly balanced agreement. not perfect, but certainly reasonable. i hope that the council will approve this as soon as possible, at its meeting on 22 march. the objections raised by the united kingdom in particular are not constructive in my view. the idea of a single market is a buzzword in 2007 and has little to do with the european idea. it is clear that the new legal framework for transatlantic air transport will be beneficial for the aviation industry, consumers and employment. it also provides the very important, the very necessary legal certainty for our european airlines. the proposal, as i said, is not perfect. the us continues to use arguments such as safety and security to make negotiations on cabotage, for example, more difficult, and no progress has been made on this point. and the ability of eu airlines to exercise effective control over a us airline is still limited, even with the extended ownership rules. the fact that the community has a single market, and that it is a market which is not a single market, is a very serious matter. at the same time, commissioner, i have high hopes for the future. the new framework provides for a binding timetable for a second agreement which will again address these restrictions. if the us continues to refuse further concessions, the union must keep its feet firmly on the ground. this must be made clear to the americans above all. i thank you, commissioner, and your team for your steadfastness, and i hope you will continue to show it to us in the future. i also thank our rapporteur, mr el khadraoui, for his enthusiasm and timely contribution to the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow.
president. - the nuclear aspirations of pyongyang and tehran are a direct threat to the non-proliferation treaty, the so-called npt. in fact, both in northeast asia and in the middle east, the respective neighbouring countries may feel compelled to join the nuclear powers in the same way. in addition, if the npt is eroded, the same negative effect is to be feared for the conventions on biological and chemical weapons. in short, the entire multilateral arms control system is in danger of collapsing - a true global nightmare. meanwhile, the question arises as to what authority the united nations security council still has when un members arm themselves with nuclear weapons against its declared will. the council and the commission share my view that the crisis of the npt is also a crisis for the highest international authority. in view of this very serious situation, i expect the council and the commission to make every effort to persuade the un security council to reverse the sinister nuclear course of pyongyang and tehran. after all, time is of the essence.
the non-proliferation treaty is, in fact, the main pillar of the international consensus that the proliferation of nuclear weapons must be prevented, with the ultimate aim of course, as my group chairman has just emphasized, of general nuclear disarmament. the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction poses a growing threat to international peace and security, and we must re-evaluate, revitalize and strengthen the treaty. we are also very concerned about developments in iran. despite repeated warnings from the international community, iran continues its efforts to develop a system of uranium enrichment. at the same time, we also know that there is a real danger that terrorist groups will have access to nuclear weapons or similar weapons. to counter the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, an effective multilateral approach is essential. in fact, the non-proliferation treaty stands or falls with it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they are also responsible in particular for the credibility of the non-proliferation treaty as we know it today. it is precisely in this light that we question the recent request by the united states to poland and the czech republic to station elements of a missile shield on their territory. the missile defense system, according to the americans, should provide protection against possible attacks from north korea and iran. this is in fact contrary to the intention to prevent those countries from developing a nuclear arsenal. the americans' proposal also ignores the fear of russia, which - rightly or wrongly - sees the missile shield as a provocation and even a threat to its internal security. the protective shield which then leads to mistrust between the three main partners - the us, russia and the eu - who want to prevent proliferation is not the multilateral action we want. we also wonder how such bilateral cooperation fits into the european security strategy and the nato partnership. we therefore have serious reservations about the way things are going and we call on the united states and the eu member states concerned to reconsider the plans and to look for multilateral alternatives that are consistent with what we have agreed in the european union on security.
commissioner, welcome and thank you for your forward-looking approach to this proposal. we agree with the coordinators in the committee on the internal market, mrs gebhardt and mr harbour, that the internal market must be attractive and that people must be at the centre of it. as a market liberal, i think the market is made up of supply and demand. who's the question? that's the consumer. i am afraid, however, that in the past we have placed too much emphasis on the paternalistic approach, on protecting too much the consumer who is transported with information and who is blinded by the trees to the forest. your style, the new wind you are blowing, suits me well because you want to put a little less emphasis on that. i hope that the action plan will not include additional restrictions and additional rules, but i am confident that it will not. i have a question for you. are you also going to look at the existing legislation to see if it can be simplified so that the single market is attractive and remains so in the future, especially for consumers? because information is fine, freedom of choice is fine, but we shouldn't overwhelm people with information and we should treat them as adults.
the fact that the european council has decided to hold a spring break in the winter indicates that the council is recognising climate change. i am glad that the council is taking up the commission's proposals on combating climate change. but this means that the council is only prepared to reduce by 30% if the other developed countries join in this effort. however, a 30% reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 is necessary to achieve the 2°c temperature increase limit. that is why the european parliament voted for the 30% a few weeks ago. so there is a first step. i am well aware that a 30% reduction is not easy. in the netherlands, the environmental and natural planning office has indicated that this can only be achieved through major changes in technology and in the behaviour of citizens and businesses. the new dutch government has this ambition. you're right to be. to achieve these ambitious objectives, the many possibilities available will have to be exploited simultaneously. so we cannot blindly focus on one solution. the council conclusions do not clearly indicate which energy sources are to be used to ensure security of supply. the danger is that the only thing on the minds of the people is to get enough gas, oil and coal. if we cling to fossil fuels, we will be hampering the development of renewable energy.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. the only way to achieve this is to make this country a protectorate with a powerful high representative of the european union and a continuing military presence. my group wants to go in a different direction. a peaceful and democratic solution must respect the fact that bosnia is a yugoslavia in miniature and that the majority of the population feels serb or croat rather than bosnian. the turkish period was favourable for the bosniaks, the austrian period for the croats and the yugoslav period for the serbs. people now want to get rid of that old inequality and of the domination of one ethnic group over another. a federal solution along the lines of the belgian or swiss model is the best way of keeping the three parts of this country together in good understanding, while recognizing their differences. it is fitting that the control of regional police is vested in the entities and especially not in a central state. the resolution proposed does not, unfortunately, solve the real problems and does not offer a better perspective than the dayton agreement.
the rapporteur rightly points out that the integration of bosnia-herzegovina into europe can only be achieved if fundamental constitutional changes are made. it is equally correct that the rapporteur stresses that internal problems such as ethnic segregation are a threat to national stability. the report does not mention external threats. however, past incidents and the recent unrest in kalesija, central bosnia, caused by some radical wahhabis, cannot be overlooked. it is not without reason that the highest police officer of the muslim croatian federation, zlatko miletic, warned on 10 march of the influence of this radical, relatively young movement among the muslims in bosnia-herzegovina. i would also like to ask the council and the commission whether they have taken note of this trend towards a more general islamization. i expect you to do your utmost to ensure that bosnia-herzegovina enjoys national stability, both internally and externally. the european perspective for the western balkans, as expressed in the thessaloniki agenda in 2003, is clear. but how can the association and stabilisation process succeed unless all the problems, both internal and external, are seriously addressed? here is a task for the new, and i hope effective, high representative.
- i'm the substitute author. thank you for answering the question. i'd like to know the following about you. you say that it will be discussed again on 17 april, but can you also give us an overview of the concrete steps that we can expect from the german presidency in the next three months? and if they are not to be expected, what do you think the transfer of the file to portugal will mean for progress?
on behalf of the alde group . – mr president, first of all, i will not dwell on mr voggenhuber’s excellent report except to say that my group will support it wholeheartedly. in principle, we very much welcome the commission’s proposals, but my problem is that they risk becoming the emperor’s clothes. they are full of good intentions but there is a big risk that they will be passive, bureaucratic exercises, because there is such a gap between reality and the proposals in your paper, commissioner. i have a problem, mr mandelson. how do i explain your wonderful proposals to my voters, when the commission does not speak out when a minister for education in an eu member state is on a crusade against homosexuals? why does the commission not speak out in the case of the cia flights, as mr fava just reminded us? why does the commission not speak out in the case of the flagrant discrimination and abominable treatment of roma people? there are so many cases where the commission is passive and even in some cases hiding behind the rules. lately, every time we ask about these cases we are told: ‘just wait and see when the agency for fundamental rights is set up’. commissioner, why does the commission, the champion of fundamental rights, as mr barroso promised us in october 2004, not seek the limits of its powers? why do you hide behind the rules? people expect you to protect and promote their fundamental rights. i, too, would like the annual report, but frankly i consider it much more important that you should act and speak out. that is political leadership. one of president barroso’s favourite phrases is ‘the europe of results’ and i very much like that phrase. but why is it restricted to the economic area? why is it not applied to the area of fundamental rights? soon we will be celebrating 50 years of european integration. after the second world war the idea was that people would never have to fear for their lives again, that everybody would be free, safe, equal and live in a democracy. so fundamental rights should be the first priority of the commission and that should be the meaning of the ‘europe of results’. i hope that this commission in the next two years will create that europe of results and of fundamental rights. i see this proposal only as a basis for that, but i expect action now.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the citizens are respected. but we disagree on the instruments. it is striking that the european union is once again seeking to establish itself on the basis of fundamental rights. the union now has a charter and a fundamental rights office, both of which were not created by unanimity. there is a significant minority, including in this parliament, who have serious objections to the charter of fundamental rights and the way in which it is being developed. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the charter of fundamental rights is an unnecessary duplication of the european convention for the protection of human rights. we have the same duplicate with the office of fundamental rights. both of these duplications can be avoided without infringing the rights of citizens. the european court of human rights here in strasbourg can guarantee that, provided it is given the necessary staff and financial resources. it also takes account of the specific nature of the national legal system. i think that is a sufficient guarantee of our freedoms and fundamental rights. i therefore advocate a limited role for the union in the field of fundamental rights. if the union accedes to the european convention on human rights, there will be a debate on the commission's legislative role in respecting and monitoring fundamental rights.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). their numbers have been reduced not only by disease or by pollution of seawater along densely populated coasts but also by increased hunting. for a time, seals seemed to be extinct in some coastal areas. even though some recovery in seal populations is being observed in some areas, the need for continued protection remains. the opposite of protection is seen where people's desire for possessions is given free rein. the skin of seals is coveted for decoration of clothing and toys. kneading dead and skinning live young seals is the shameful means of satisfying that desire for possession. some coastal residents have become economically dependent on this repulsive activity. the ability to export seal skins and to find buyers far from the crime scene is what sustains this system. that is why it has been necessary for many years to ensure that these products are no longer available for sale, especially in the richest parts of the world, such as europe. the first part of commissioner dimas's statement shows that he shares the concern of the european parliament and of public opinion on this matter. the result after that, however, is disappointing. there is no objection to an impact study and it is good that there should be more on-the-spot inspections in canada and namibia. but that cannot be an excuse to wait any longer. some member states of the european union have already taken measures against imports, as has the united states. why should some european countries be left behind? there is every reason for an immediate moratorium without further delay. even if we introduce it tomorrow, it will be years too late, given the seriousness of the situation. so i strongly urge you not to use this study as an excuse to delay further.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the great russian empire with its many minorities gave way to regional self-government for the other peoples, with education and government in the vernacular. eleven countries, including ukraine, georgia, and uzbekistan, have now gained their independence because of that choice. the many smaller peoples, such as the chechens, tatars, ossetians, karelians, or mari, were granted only an autonomous territory within russia or one of the other federal states. these peoples have been in a bad way since the collapse of the soviet union. no one recognizes their right to independence and all hope that they can nevertheless retain the rights granted to them 85 years ago. unfortunately, both in georgia and in russia, a nationalism has arisen which seeks to put an end to these rights. the bad political climate in russia is the price for holding on to chechnya, against the wishes of its inhabitants, with extremely violent methods. intimidation and murder are also promoted within the military, where young soldiers are systematically severely abused by older soldiers and then have to comply with their duty of silence. in putin's russia, there is less and less room for contradiction, critical analysis and change of power. the stability of the current regime and the increasing concentration of control over the various regions in moscow are given absolute priority. opponents are imprisoned, abused or excluded from elections. even more profound is the sudden death of critics, especially of people suspected of revealing important information. europe must help russia to avoid further sliding into a situation which is becoming unlivable for more and more people. the protection of the people who stand up for the rights of the mari republic will help to achieve this.
the european union has always been a party to the peace process, and it is not just the united states that is responsible for this. since then, relations have become hardened and extremely intolerant. first, with american support, a right-wing regime came to power with no other objective than to counter china and vietnam. then came the years of khmer rouge supremacy, which had the illusion that humanity would be happier if the urban population were driven back to the countryside and intellectuals turned into farmers. that chinese-backed regime has cost a huge number of lives. all these intolerant regimes have turned what was once a relatively peaceful and tolerant society into a land of murder and violence. even now, when cambodia is a parliamentary democracy, various political parties continue this ancient tradition. they would rather ban each other and exclude in advance any possibility of taking power. people are being attacked without the real culprits being tracked down and convicted. the crimes of the recent past are still too much for us to deal with. these crimes are covered up as much as possible. in that climate, violent forms of intimidation are given every opportunity, and may even result in the murder of people who advocate different opinions and different interests. recently, the attacks have targeted trade unionists, particularly in the clothing industry. this seems to be aimed at the right of workers to organise themselves and to defend their interests. it is important that europe does not remain silent on this but consistently stands up for human rights. the council and the commission should involve and discuss their contacts with cambodia and, above all, not subordinate them to any economic considerations such as offshore oil.
author. president, nigeria is a country of diversity. many peoples live there, with diverse languages and cultures. it was only through british colonization that they were brought together in a single state. separatist movements such as biafra have long since been suppressed by a vast military superiority. it has contributed to the militarization of the country. we are now seeing the development of the relatively large individual freedom in the christian south, where european standards have penetrated most, being subjected to the strict rules of life from the traditionally isolated orthodox-islamic north. even more than in the united states, where president bush tried in vain to enshrine a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage, nigeria is trying to crack down on homosexuality. in fact, it is no longer just a matter of discouragement, but an attempt at extermination. this not only leads to the prohibition of same-sex marriages or marriages of a more or less equal legal status, but also to the criminalization of all persons involved in organisations representing the interests of homosexual men and lesbians. rights that previously seemed self-evident are threatened with being abolished in the new legislation. banning and persecuting homosexuality does not make it go away. it only leads to justification of violence and oppression against a section of the population. this violence fits with previous attempts to impose the death penalty on raped women who gave birth to a child out of wedlock. this advance of legal injustice must be fought. we must make it clear to those forces in nigeria who are pushing for such laws that they are leading to unacceptable situations and, in this case, to the further spread of sexually transmitted diseases, including aids. europe must not be silent about this, even if we are keen to import nigerian oil.
- a writer. president, i agree with mr gahler that there are many more problems in nigeria and in other countries as well, but sometimes problems are so sensitive and so difficult that you really have to put the spotlight on them and that you have to make a special effort to eradicate those problems. the situation of homosexuals is problematic all over the world. this is a violation of fundamental human rights and i think it is really important that the european parliament and the european union take the lead in the world in the fight against the criminalisation of homosexuality. that is why i am very pleased that this resolution is on the table and i also hope that we will draw the consequences, that is to say that if nigeria does not follow the call of the european parliament, we really have to start reviewing our relations with nigeria. because we cannot be here all the time promoting human rights and then, if our partners do not comply with them, close our eyes. we really need to be consistent about that. finally, i would like to address once again directly to president obasanjo, who was once awarded the freedom prize by the liberals for his work for democracy in his country. i would like to call on him once again to commit himself to all the citizens of his country, including the gay nigerians.
the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the kosovo declaration since 1999, and i think there is only one conclusion to be drawn. the report before us is the logical outcome of a long process of deliberation in this house, in which the european parliament - that is, we - have actually reached two conclusions in recent years. firstly, that maintaining the current status quo in kosovo is not an option. that is undesirable, highly undesirable. the second conclusion is that some form of independence - how exactly it is defined is open to debate - is inevitable for kosovo, whether we like it or not. i have tried in my report to outline what this general statement, this general conclusion, means in practice. in other words, what do we think, what does the european parliament think should be the most desirable outcome of the discussions in the security council on the status of kosovo? a few highlights. kosovo must have access to institutions such as the world bank and the imf in order to finally tackle the economic problems, to bring the economy of kosovo out of the slump. secondly, the multi-ethnic character of kosovo must be preserved. the best way to achieve this for the time being is through the presence of an international presence, both military and civilian. read the following: the european union. this leads to the conclusion that the european union has a key role to play once that status has been established. it is the european union - and we are the ones - who will have to see to it that the kosovo authorities continue to guide their country on the road to a democratic multiethnic state which can eventually become a member of the european union. the european parliament is prepared to provide the necessary budget for this role, for this task, if we are informed in time and sufficiently. finally, kosovo is a unique case because of the nato intervention in 1990, but especially because for almost eight years that part of serbia has been under un administration. this also means that solutions to the current situation, which are being sought, are unique and cannot be used to resolve conflicts elsewhere in the world. i think that the majority of the house would agree with me on that point. what has happened in the past week is that the debate on this report is not focused on the content i have just outlined, but on the question of what label, what label should be affixed to that desired situation. in other words, what word do we want to use to describe that desired post-independence situation? is that independence under control, is that sovereignty under control or should we perhaps refrain from putting a clear label, a clear label on that situation at all? i would like to say the following to those who do not want to make a statement on this at the moment, who do not want to make a statement on how to define this situation. i think it is very important that the european union should speak with one voice, act with one voice! here in brussels, but also in the security council in new york and also, ladies and gentlemen, in the european parliament. if we agree on the end goal, why don't we just say so? that will have a positive impact on the difficult discussions in brussels and new york and will make it more difficult for russia - the great opponent of eventual independence - to tear the european union apart. another argument against giving clarity now is why we as the european parliament should be leading the way now? why should we, as the first european institution, be so clear about the final stage? i would like to make the following objection. since last monday, someone else has been leading the way. that is martti ahtisaari, the secretary-general's special envoy, who in his recommendation to the security council said the following: "the status of kosovo should be: independence under the supervision of the international community.' this conclusion is fully endorsed by ban ki-moon, secretary-general of the united nations. in other words, others are ahead, and i think it would be good for the european parliament if we too were to be clear about what we want. that is to say, support the recommendation of ahtisaari by clearly stating that, as far as we are concerned, the best outcome of the process is sovereignty under supervision. we are parliamentarians, we are politicians, we are not diplomats. i shall be very pleased to have your support in this plenary for my report tomorrow. i am not satisfied until parliament too has made clear what we think the final aim should be. that is sovereignty under eu supervision as far as i am concerned. that is the clarity to which the kosovars are entitled, to which the serbs are entitled and to which the citizens of europe are entitled.
the commission is therefore proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. a key aspect such as citizenship based on kosovo's multilingual and multiethnic character passes the test. it is remarkable that the present report does not mention the explicit status of kosovo (see amendment no 13, which we will support). if not un mediator ahtisaari. he presented his final report to the security council with a clear recommendation the day before yesterday. independence under international supervision for kosovo. however, prime minister kostunica said last week that independence for kosovo will never be an option for serbia. he even hopes for a russian veto in the security council. this wish is in direct opposition to the demand of the albanian movement for self-determination. the fact is that leader kurti wants nothing more than unconditional independence. the danger of ethnic disintegration and regional instability is lurking anyway. the great challenge, mr president, for the international community is therefore obvious. regional stability combined with multi-ethnic citizenship in a sovereign kosovo. the european commissioner rehn spoke in parliament last week about a major litmus test for the eu. i wish the commission and the council every success, wisdom and support.
president, kosovo was the splinter of the former yugoslavia. even before slovenia and croatia became independent, the people of kosovo had already mentally parted ways with serbia. they have already set up their own government and education and boycotted all state institutions. they asked for international recognition of their independence, but they got war and a new occupation. since 1999, serbian military and civil servants have been replaced by other colonials. the people of kosovo want nothing but self-determination - vetevendosje - which is painted all over the walls. the continuation of the present state of schism is promoting stagnation and crime. forced return to serbia is impossible without civil war or two million refugees. that prospect is worse than a further violation of international law which does not allow for secession without agreement. it would also be better for the future of serbia itself if it were finally freed from the nationalist struggle for prestige over kosovo. everyone knows that in the end there is no other solution than an independent kosovo. but few people dare to take the first responsibility for it. the implementation of the weakened ahtisaari proposal is unfortunately seriously delayed.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague and friend, mr joost lagendijk, on his report, even though we do not agree on all the details. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that is also clearly stated in the report on which we are voting tomorrow. in this respect, the report as it is now presented also has the support of our group. these proposals have the support of the council and the commission, as we have heard here. but now we think it is particularly important that the security council should decide on the status of kosovo. this should be done without undue delay, so that the uncertainty in kosovo is quickly brought to an end and both kosovars and serbs can focus on their future in europe. but it is not for the european union to take a decision on this at the moment. we therefore believe that it is not the role of the eu to anticipate the final formulation of the status in the security council. the interim status of kosovo is based on a security council resolution and the final status of kosovo will also have to be based on a security council resolution. that is of the utmost importance for the international legitimacy of that decision. we therefore reject the amendments tabled by mr posselt. it is also essential for the internal legitimacy of the status decision. the real work for the eu will indeed only begin after the decision in new york. the eu will be largely responsible for guiding the implementation of this status. the union will have to prepare for this, but above all it will have to avoid being caught in the middle beforehand. that is why my group will vote against the amendment tomorrow which already qualifies the status without any debate in new york. and we are following the line expressed by the presidency, but also by the commission, neither of which has mentioned the qualification this afternoon.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, i would like to congratulate mr lamassoure in his absence and mr böge in his presence on his presentation. we all remember the experience of the recent summit in 2005 and the movements that preceded it. i think that the chopping is not a worthy spectacle for europe. we must find another way of earning our own income, and the lamassoure report gives good reason for this. the liberal group can overwhelmingly agree with the main conclusions of the lamassoure report. we believe that gross national income is probably the best way of measuring the wealth of countries and then measuring the distribution of wealth. that should not prevent us from looking at other means later on and, as many have already said, it should not lead to an increase in the tax burden, but we should use the existing taxes to provide a part of the revenue to europe. we do not share the view that it is a pity that we did not use the 1.24% agreed in edinburgh in 1992. the commission has already had difficulty in implementing the existing budget. every year so many billions of euros are returned to the member states and given that it is difficult to justify the need to budget more and spend more. you have to budget on the basis of real needs and for the time being we have not reached that 1.24%. it is a coincidence that the commissioner responsible for agriculture is here tonight; i can tell her that the liberal group believes that the compulsory co-financing of certain agricultural expenditure is a great advantage for europe and that we should certainly promote it in the future, and who knows, she will have an idea tonight for her health check next year.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. mr president, on behalf of the alde group i am the shadow rapporteur for the committee on the internal market, but i would like to say that we started this dossier in the committee on the internal market in order to prevent football from falling apart - which was threatened at the time - with a possible second bosman case, namely the charleroi case. i would like to thank the working group, and in particular ivo belet, for the pleasant cooperation. i think that we have now a balanced proposal which covers all aspects of professional sport and in which we give a clear warning to all parties concerned to take action themselves to deal with the situation which has arisen over the years; because it seems like professional sports should be above the law. until a case is brought before the european court of justice; it is an economic entity with social and cultural values. but we must respect european rules. i would therefore like to ask the commission whether it agrees with me that we are not talking about amateur sports, but that professional sport is an entertainment industry which perhaps should even be covered by the services directive, that perhaps there should eventually be an internal market for these services, for this entertainment industry. because, mr. chairman, we're not talking about what happens on the field, we're talking about what happens off the field, and specifically the financial actors around it. if you have to compete at the european level, you see that there are a lot of differences, because there are differences in interpretation. what is the reason for that? why is there still no single market here and why is each club obliged to operate within the national market in order to be able to compete with each other at european level? i think that if the authorities concerned do not want to regulate themselves, then the politicians must react. and we are now giving a warning, not wishing for new legislation - certainly not an exception - but a signal that the parties concerned must solve it themselves and, if not, i hope that the commission itself will intervene and say what needs to be done.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. we should not claim competences we do not have, but when it comes to internal market rules, the fight against racism and crossborder fraud, these are areas where the eu does have competence. i am therefore in favour of paragraph 8, but against an independent supervisory body. europe is not a referee and should not be involved in matters which the football world can very well handle. i thank mr belet for the enormous support he has given in his report for the fight against racism in football. last year i took the initiative of making a written statement on this, to which the report now refers explicitly. with record support, it became an official resolution whose proposed measures of tougher sanctions were adopted by uefa and fifa. this good cooperation must also be established in the other areas of football.
the european parliament has been asked to vote on the report by mr glinne, on behalf of the ind/dem group. the european union is not only increasing its own vulnerability, but is also creating new political tensions between member states, and this should be a real scarecrow for the high representative, mr solana, after the european crisis in iraq. what facts now support the missile project? first of all, the islamic republic of iran has a firm intention of having an arsenal of modern ballistic missiles with a range of up to 5500 km in the near future. add to this tehran's ambiguous nuclear effort and the threat, also to europe, is a given. in short, mr president, a strong transatlantic signal to iran is certainly in order. a missile defense system on our continent is a legitimate preventive action against dangerous persian power projections. in order to achieve these national ambitions, tehran is again heavily dependent on russian and chinese technical expertise. i trust that you will, high representative, address moscow and beijing on their specific responsibility for world peace as members of the security council in this.
i would like to thank mr solana, president, for his comments on the missile shield. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new security strategy, which is a matter of great concern to the european union. we are very concerned about the negotiations between the united states and two member states of the european union on the deployment of a missile shield in europe. we are not convinced of the need for such a system. on the contrary, we fear that the plans will create divisions. international efforts to curb the proliferation of nuclear weapons could be seriously undermined. the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is a growing threat to international peace and security and i welcome the comments made by mr solana on this more generally. the european union has made non-proliferation one of its top priorities and we recognise that the maintenance of the non-proliferation system is only possible through joint multilateral action. multilateral cooperation is not an option, but a necessity. it is in this light that we are most concerned about washington's plans. it is counterproductive to continue to develop a missile defence system which is rightly or wrongly perceived as a provocation by other recognized nuclear powers. it could even lead to a new arms race. we are also deeply concerned about the nuclear aspirations of countries such as north korea and iran, and we therefore support the efforts of the european union and the united nations to thwart these aspirations through dialogue, but also through political and economic coercion. the missile shield is supposed to protect against attacks from iran, according to the united states. but does that not undermine the credibility of the international community at the negotiating table? finally, it is contrary to the intention to prevent iran from developing a new nuclear arsenal. in short, we are very unhappy with the recent american defence plans and the unilateral way in which the americans are acting. but we are also very concerned about the willingness of poland and the czech republic to engage in such a unilateral dialogue. chancellor merkel has rightly called on the two countries to discuss it within nato. we support the proposal of the german presidency, but would also like to ask mr solana to discuss this further with his colleagues in the council. some believe that member states are free to cooperate bilaterally with third countries in the field of defence. the political effects of such a system are not limited to poland and the czech republic, however, and the deployment of such a missile shield will have unpleasant consequences for the security of the entire european union.
in writing. the issue of kosovo divides political currents. my group, the european united left, and the parties associated with it have unanimously opposed the war that nato waged against yugoslavia in 1999. that war was not about liberating kosovo, but about more outside control of serbia and montenegro. some of my colleagues in the group of the european people's party are still afraid that the united states is using the problem of kosovo to divide european countries into small military protectorates. they also invoke international law, which provides that no new states can be formed without the prior consent of the state which loses territory. if we follow that line of reasoning, many of the present european states, such as greece, belgium, bulgaria, ireland, poland, the czech republic and slovenia, are also illegal. i prefer to compare it to the independence of former european colonies such as indonesia, algeria or angola. the left in europe has supported their independence struggle. if democracy and the equality of the people of kosovo require that they become independent, the left must be at the forefront of that, not behind. i also recognise the right of self-determination of the serb-majority inhabitants of kosovska mitrovica and the northern tip of kosovo who wish to return permanently to serbia.
i would first like to join mrs kauppi in what she said at the end about the first reading procedure. i think we should deal with that in this parliament. it's great that it worked out. i would also like to say that the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have informed the rest of the economic committee very well and have done so in a very transparent way, which is sometimes not the case in first reading procedures, but it is good that we now have speed and can move on with this dossier. two comments on the content. first of all, i agree with some of what mr purvis has said about competition in the payments market. in the netherlands we have no problem with the exemption now mentioned, because we also hope that new services will develop and that new service providers will enter the market, especially if you look at, for example, migrants who want to send their money back to their home countries. that is typically a service where new service providers are developing and a service that i like to see in the white circle, and not in the underground illegality. i think we should give a chance to developments of this kind and to opportunities of this kind, particularly where smaller amounts and very simple services are concerned, because why should these people have to use expensive banking services? the last point - and this has been raised by several speakers - is that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. let us - and this is also a signal to the commission and the competition dg - be very careful that no new monopolies, oligopolies or cartels emerge on this market, so that it does not ultimately lead to cheaper and better services for the customers.
mr president, with the directive we are voting on tomorrow, we are voting on a compromise which is entirely justifiable, and we thank our colleague mr gauzès very much. commissioner mccreevy rightly began by setting out the objectives we want to achieve: more efficiency, more competition. in the fourth recital it is stated in so many words that it must be a major step forward in terms of cost and efficiency for the consumer and for small and mediumsized enterprises. but what do we see in practice? in the netherlands and other countries, banks are already sending signals that european rules will make it more expensive for consumers and smes to pay by card. we're already seeing that in a number of countries. commissioner mccreevy, the project is not finished, but the project has just begun. how do you stay involved? how are you going to make sure that those goals are actually achieved and that the consumer is actually better off? what will you and mr kroes do in the coming years to make this a reality?
president. - i call mr glinne to speak on behalf of the group of the european people's party. he decides to sell tissues and cells from his body to receive money to support himself. this situation is possible if we leave the ban on the commercialisation of the human body outside this regulation. i would urge that the amendment be supported in this respect, especially in order to remain in line with the oviedo treaty and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i am also very concerned about the technical possibilities for germline-modifying medicinal products and medicinal products derived from human-animal hybrids. these techniques seriously undermine human dignity. in addition, there are wide differences in the approach taken by the various member states. i hope, therefore, that we can keep these products out of the scope of this regulation, in order to continue to respect the value of the human body and the choices of individual member states. i think we are also strengthening the principle of subsidiarity by keeping these products out of the regulation. since the legal basis of the regulation is article 95 on the internal market, it seems that the current wording of the proposal would allow legal persons to bring a national ban on a european authorised medicinal product before the court of justice and be treated as such. this must be prevented.
i would like to thank mr zingaretti for his cooperation. we've spent a lot of time discussing this subject because it's a sensitive subject. according to the oecd, when we talk about counterfeit goods worldwide, it's about 600 billion euros a year. criminal organizations are the main ones involved in this worldwide activity. so that also means that the tax authorities of the governments have to make a big leap when it comes to tax revenues, because a legitimate business pays taxes, has employees and so on. with that tax, the government does a lot of good things. employment is good and we do not seem to have the courage to intervene enough to actually implement criminal sanctions and deal with the issues. it is not just a question of tackling it through criminal sanctions, of course, but also a process of awareness-raising. the customs authorities should be able to carry out checks more effectively and efficiently, so that in future it will be impossible for a seagoing vessel, as in hamburg, to slip through customs with three million pairs of shoes and no one has seen it. these are all fake goods from china. i think we should do something about that. on the other hand, it is also necessary that the consumer is a lot more aware, and that is why i have tabled an amendment to introduce a listing system. this means that if a consumer deliberately buys products that are too cheap, he should know that he is buying a counterfeit product and that he is hindering the functioning of our society and our economy. it is a pity that we want to save consumers too much, because the funny thing is that in france and italy the practice of buying counterfeit products is criminalized. the purchase of counterfeit goods is a criminal offence and there are very large posters warning against it. unfortunately, we did not dare to do so. i also regret that in this respect intellectual property in europe is still not sufficiently protected, that there is not enough awareness-raising, because we will never achieve the lisbon objectives of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world; i hope we will continue to support customs and improve legislation. i think we should have identical definitions on a global basis. if that happens, mr president, i shall be satisfied. if we do not, we will be isolating ourselves as europe, and that is not good for our economy and for our employment.
mr president, it is 2007, so you can address me as ‘miss’! i would also like to congratulate my colleague mr zingaretti, although he knows that we agree to disagree on this issue. the legal base of the proposal derives from the court of justice. the commission interprets this ruling to be applicable beyond the case, and sees this ruling as a legal base for the harmonisation of certain criminal sanctions in measures aimed at protecting the internal market. the reason i consider rejection of this directive as a whole is not because i do not believe in expanding the powers of the eu to include criminal sanctions. i do believe in that. however, i have serious doubts about the process leading to this increase of power, because a legal base is not the same as a political mandate. fundamental steps like this demand a thorough political debate and a clear choice on the matter in question. instead, we are about to take a great leap forward as a by-product of a single policy measure in a highly specialised and limited field. i do not think this is the best way of pushing integration forward. it also enforces the popular opinion held by many who see the european union as an organisation which caters mainly for the interests of big businesses, which is not the case.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the one hand, we have adopted the regulations, generally accepted here in this parliament, between the institutions for 2007-2013 and we are fully engaged in the operational programmes. cohesion policy is the most important basis for solidarity in the european union and for competitiveness. all european regions can benefit from this through the three objectives we have agreed. europe close to its citizens in all regions. and yet there is a need for an early rethinking of the sustainability of this successful policy. as mrs hübner has just said, regional policy must actively prepare for the midterm review, which is only realistic when it comes to the necessary financial frameworks resulting from the enlargement envisaged. the pieper report opens up that debate and invites the commission to present targeted financial effects. it is not just a question of money, as the pieper report shows, but also of more flexibility, targeted phasing, more creativity and a different approach to cofinancing. i would also like to say that the epp group, while maintaining the foundations of regional policy in the member states, wants to think about another, more flexible approach and we will have the opportunity to do so in the fourth cohesion report, already next month, and later in the fifth cohesion report, but the signal is clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals. that is why it is good to involve parliament in this early part of the parliamentary term, this legislature, by means of an own-initiative report and to show the consequences. i would like to conclude by saying that i hope that parliament will be involved in this debate much more intensively, particularly in the next year and a half, before we start the midterm review.
i am therefore going to speak on potatoes, on starch potatoes, after being sworn in this afternoon. this can hardly be a coincidence, since i grew up with a father who was quite fond of reading german children's books - perhaps mr graefe zu baringdorf should be interested in that - and there was always a story about "die bedeuting der kartoffel". i don't know who wrote it, but my father loved to read it to me, and so my maiden speech about potatoes can hardly be a coincidence. but let's put all the crazy aside for a moment: the commission's proposal is of course of great importance to a number of regions in europe, including the north-east of my own country where the potato starch industry provides significant employment and production. this sector, and therefore the producers and their region, have an interest in clarity and certainty as regards the planning and management of their individual holdings, especially after the fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy in 2003 and in view of the uncertainties associated with the ongoing wto negotiations. it 's been said before: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is now again proposing to extend it by two years, the rapporteur made it three years and finally the committee on agriculture voted for four years, so i think that is a clear signal to the commission and the council. i would like to ask the commissioner, in principle, to support the proposed extension, but preferably for a slightly longer period, so that those concerned know where they stand in the years ahead. i think that knowing your limits also means that you do not abuse the existing quotas during this period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i also congratulate the rapporteur. i would also like to congratulate my new dutch colleague, esther de lange, on her maiden speech. i didn't realize the potatoes were such a relevant topic. i recommend to the commission a four-year period. why four years? i think everybody wants a little security, including farmers. four years is also a good period to evaluate the sugar reform. that is not at all clear at the moment; there is a clear link between isoglucose and potato starch. i think we will not know where we stand for another four years, and that is why i very much support those four years. it has been said by a number of people: the graefe zu baringdorf amendment is ideal. i don't know, man. how can you predict this year's harvest based on last year's? quotas are not transferable from one year to another. if you do, even if the quota is too little one year and too much the next, you are not doing much good, because a farmer can never predict production. so i don't know if it's technically feasible.
i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the commission is able to take account of the interests of the european union in the field of competition policy. i don't know what it is, but it's very remarkable. apparently, this is considered a kind of nighttime topic. mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i would like to make a few comments. the question of principle is: should citizens and companies who suffer damage as a result of infringements of antitrust law be entitled to compensation? yes, and the legal affairs committee is in full agreement with that. we believe that in such cases there should be a right to compensation in the member states. member states should provide for such a procedure. how they decorate it is up to them. in some member states, the first step will be to establish that there is indeed an infringement, which will then be carried out by the public authorities. in other member states, the procedure is different, but it is all governed by the procedures of the member states. the question is also: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission is not in a position to impose such procedures on the member states from brussels. you can convince them that they should introduce them, but whether you can impose them is something we have serious doubts about. this is not a question of cartel law, it is a question of civil law. civil law, like criminal law, is reserved to the member states. the european union cannot intervene in this. we therefore also have serious doubts about the possible legal basis for european legislative measures to introduce such procedures. the same applies in fact to all those other questions and comments in the green paper which relate to the taking of evidence, for example the hiring of experts, the class actions, all of which are matters which belong to national civil law and the european union cannot in fact legislate on them. these are the main points we have made as the legal affairs committee.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. that is why we are calling for the possibility of not being examined further on a number of points. we would like the commission to be given the opportunity to examine a number of things in a proper way and to include an impact assessment to see what the effects are. i can imagine that we too will conclude in the green paper that this is not a good way forward and that some things do not need to be developed further or implemented. but we are not ready to make a decision on that at the moment. we therefore call on the epp to reconsider some of these points or perhaps to provide for a formulation which leaves a little more room for what the conclusion should be, in order to at least give the commission the opportunity to examine it further. we shall then be critical of our own amendments. i would like to invite you to look at this again tomorrow. i would also like to speak on this point from the dutch point of view, because we are having a very exciting debate in the netherlands. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. that is, of course, a subject that the whole of the netherlands thinks it can talk about. it was a very illustrative example, because the beer cartel involved price agreements between beer brewers, who also have a great deal of influence on the catering industry and which have naturally caused people, the final users, to pay far too much for their beer, something that was already a topic of discussion in the netherlands, even at the time when the euro was introduced; however, this example also showed that the fines that are then distributed go first to the european commission and then back to the member states, and do not go directly to the consumer. the catering companies may sue the brewers to see if they can recover any damage, but the consumer, the end user, is not going to benefit from that. in that sense, it's very interesting as an example to see how you can move forward; the final end user is duped by this type of cartel. so, from my situation, this is a good illustration. i therefore call on this house to keep that door open and to explore how we can also make the consumer himself, the end user himself, more a part of this cartel policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and tell them that the alde group shares their opinion. we too support the discharge as recommended. the year we are talking about, 2006, is the first full financial year for which this commission was fully responsible. once again, the court of auditors has given a negative opinion. for the 12th time in a row, and of course, everyone knows that can't go on like this. i am glad that the court of auditors has announced that there will be a so-called peer review, that they will have their own work, their own method, examined by others for once. that is welcome, but no matter how we turn things around, the commission will always be responsible and cannot shift that responsibility onto the member states. we signed the financial perspective last year and for the first time it provides that member states must make national declarations at the appropriate political level to say that they have implemented the budget properly. my big question is: what exactly did the commission do with that article in the financial perspective? has it sent a letter to the member states to inform them of this? what is the commission's strategy in this respect? i would also like to point out to the commission that next year will be the crucial year for the commission. it is 2008 and ten years ago, in 1998, parliament refused to grant discharge. i will not say that this will happen again, it depends on developments, but there must be clear progress. it is not possible that this parliament will accept very easily, a year from now, on the eve of the next european elections, to grant discharge to the commission when there is clearly no impression that the commission has done all it can to improve the situation. one of the keys to this is adherence to the financial perspective.
i shall confine myself to comments on the european parliament. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr staes, for a very thorough report. we support his motion for discharge and we also support most of his comments and the comments he makes. of course, as a group we will make a number of points, and i would like to draw particular attention to our amendment no 3, which calls for constructive cooperation and political dialogue with the president of this house, which is given a discharge, but which was not yet included in the budget we are discussing. i would also like to draw attention to the amendments tabled by mr fjellner, who is also one of my signatories, on the actual cost of maintaining three places of meeting in a situation with 27 member states. the current figures date from the time of 15 member states. on a personal note, as a former assistant, i have of course taken a critical look at the comments on secretarial remuneration and the situation of parliamentary staff, where improvement is still needed in individual cases. finally, the enduring story of the voluntary pension fund. i think, as my delegation does, that it is of the utmost importance to avoid any impression that public funds - the general expense allowance - are being used for private income, namely to finance the contribution to the voluntary pension fund. finally, i would like to give the 20 seconds i have left to the next speaker.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr staes for his excellent report and for the 20 seconds of the previous speaker. could it be that we are from the same member state? it seems that it is, because i would like to emphasize the same points that you have emphasized. first of all, the report by mr staes. i thank you again, it has turned out to be a very good report. for the first time since i was elected, you have managed to deliver a discharge that did not cause great controversy in the week before. i would like to make a few points. unfortunately, in this procedure it is more the rule than the exception that we have to ask the same things over and over again. it is not just about things like electronic signatures or the reduction of paperwork in this house, but also about something as important as the question of who we are actually granting discharge to. we support the wording of mr staes in this respect. i would also like to draw attention, on a personal basis, to the amendments tabled by mr fjellner. i think it is of the utmost importance that we know exactly what we are spending parliament's money on and i think it is therefore of the utmost importance for the debate to know exactly what it costs to divide our working time over three places. then the assistant statute: i am sure that now that we have settled the membership rules, that is a subject which i hope we will not have to ask again next year. a working group within the bureau is working on this important subject. i think it is of the utmost importance that the statute for assistants should be introduced as soon as possible and that we should have a proper understanding of the position of those assistants, their social security and their taxation system.
mr president, since 2000, two internal auditors of the committee of the regions have found serious fraud in succession. the anti-fraud service has also confirmed this in several reports. all these years the committee of the regions has played down the problems, promised improvement and we in parliament have always given discharge. last year there was to be a hearing with the two auditors who had been dismissed by the committee of the regions. however, due to intensive lobbying by the same committee, the hearing was deleted from the agenda of the committee on budgetary control at the last moment. we are simply giving the committee of the regions a discharge. a few months ago the last interim olaf report in this saga was published. olaf recommends not only disciplinary action but even criminal prosecution. after repeated refusals by the committee of the regions, the committee on budgetary control was finally allowed to see that report at the beginning of this year. it turns out to be structurally organized malversions involving multiple levels within the hierarchy. also, new anonymous reports are coming in. i cannot quote from the olaf report because that is the rule, but after years of fraud there are still no disciplinary measures and the two auditors have been dismissed. it is incredible that we are about to discharge the committee of the regions again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of aids. not just gays and drug users, but also straight people and total abstainers. i therefore thank our rapporteur very much. mr andrejevs has done this work with great dedication and has written an excellent report. as far as our group is concerned, we must do everything we can to stop the aids epidemic and we must invest in this. first of all, colleagues, we must invest in people, in women. we have to take prevention seriously. we must take seriously the reality of women, young people, sex workers and drug users; that's the reality we have to work from. good information in schools and hospitals is essential. education that respects people's moral choices. and education about all sexually transmitted diseases, because it increases vulnerability to aids. secondly, we must invest in new means, in microbicides, in means that enable women to protect themselves against aids, in medicines and vaccines, medicines that are user-friendly. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the condoms are available to all women. thirdly, we need to invest in political innovation. we must overcome the existing obstacles with urgency. medicines and vaccines are often unaffordable for the groups who need them most. the reasons are the high cost of drug development and the relatively short payback time that makes new drugs very expensive. we need to face these problems and take public responsibility. there are ways out of this situation, for example, more public-private partnerships to develop aids drugs and vaccines. it might make it cheaper. in addition, we should make use of all the existing possibilities to render patents ineffective in the public interest. the trips agreements provide the impetus for this. finally, there is a need for better negotiation with the pharmaceutical industry when it comes to the availability of essential drugs to combat aids. the commission can do a great deal in this respect and i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's amendment.
mr president, i have a point of order based on rules 166 and 71 of the rules of procedure. besides the fjellner amendment asking for the costs of maintaining parliament’s three places of work, i would like to advise the house that paragraph 83 of the original text also called for specification of the environmental impact. 7d, the ppe-de amendment, calls for a deletion.
president, madam president-in-office, commissioner barrot, i am very pleased with the european commitment to independent investigation of shipping accidents. the epp therefore strongly supports this, since the purpose of such an inquiry is to establish the cause of the disaster so that measures can be taken to prevent a recurrence. we have had very good experience with this in air disasters. after the disasters of the oil tankers erika and prestige, independent investigations failed and regions and member states threatened to shift the blame mainly to the other. when a major disaster occurs in our international waters, it is not long before several member states and many parties are involved. this european directive will help us to get the bottom of this and prevent the member states from cheating each other in such a case. we have, as the committee on transport, emphasised the independence of the inquiry. the research information may only be used to improve safety at sea. the epp therefore disagrees with the european commission. information from the investigation into the cause of the disaster should not be made available for criminal proceedings in the member states, as there is a high risk that those involved will not be able to bring important information to the table for fear of criminal prosecution. a strict separation between criminal investigation and investigation into the cause of the disaster is therefore very important. mr president, apart from amendments on this point and amendments to speed up the examination, there are some amendments which are a little more detailed and which we do not attach particular importance to, but overall i think that there is a good report. i would also like to make a comment on the directive on passenger rights. it was intended for maritime transport, but now all of a sudden inland waterway transport is also being accommodated there and i understand that even commissioner barrot supports this. i do not understand that support, because a passenger ship sailing on the danube, the meuse or the rhine is not comparable to a seagoing vessel on the ocean. you might compare that to a train or a touring car. so i want to point out that the risk profile is very different. in the context of the naiades action programme, you, commissioner barrot, have promised to harmonize european legislation on inland waterway transport, and we are talking about ccr legislation; the first case that arises now is that you want to apply maritime law to inland navigation. that's the wrong way. i still hope that you will harmonize ccr legislation - you may add a little to that, making it stricter - and that you will do so. we have tabled the amendments again to get inland navigation out of this and i hope that it does not get a majority and at least not a qualified majority and that the council gets its way on this point.
i should like to concentrate on the costa report. that seems to contain two important points. firstly, the liability regime in the event of terrorist activities. this point has been discussed and dealt with at length in the imo. a good example of the right solution at the right level. that brings me to my second point of interest. that is the scope of the regulation. the athens convention is designed for seafaring. the extension of the scope to inland navigation has therefore surprised me. the major differences between maritime and inland waterway transport do not justify a uniform liability regime. neither do the consequences of equalization. the increase in liability for inland waterway carriers is expected to have an impact on the financial viability of the service. i think that is unacceptable, given the social importance of passenger transport by water in a number of countries. for this reason, my group for inland navigation proposes that this proposal be deleted and that, as a consequence, the improvement of the liability regime for inland navigation in the context of ccr be supported. i welcome the epp's position on this matter and i hope very much that the other groups will join in.
the dutch are not the only ones who have been affected by the recent events in the netherlands. it could lead to an adaptation of the treaty. it could also provide opportunities for these islands in terms of employment, training, etc. my question to you is whether you will cooperate with the dutch authorities in this further study. there are evaluation data available, for example from guadeloupe, martinique, similar areas. would you like to do that together so that we can reach the best possible decision in the long term?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0406 - c4-0414/97-97/0117 (cns)) (rapporteur: mr pimenta). the need for this is therefore not in doubt. i was thinking about this, to be honest, when the anniversary of the tenerife air disaster was commemorated on 27 march. exactly 30 years ago, two boeing 747 aircraft collided, killing 583 people. the worst disaster in the history of aviation. i also realised that we have now made many important steps towards common rules for european aviation and in particular for the safety of air passengers. i realized then and there how much we all benefit from this. the creation of a european common aviation area, based on the principles which have been mentioned by almost everyone here, is therefore another important step forward. the agreement provides for the gradual extension of the aviation acquis to the partner countries. the economic interest is obvious, along with safety. i think it is important to stress, as the rapporteur and the previous speakers have done, that not all partner countries have the same starting point. some countries are facing considerable challenges, to say the least, and the general development of the aviation sector also varies considerably across the partner countries. in other words, progress towards a common aviation area will not be uniform, and we should not want that. i therefore regard the proposed eu technical, legal and other support to these partner countries as an essential instrument for the effective achievement of the ambitions of the creation of the european common aviation area; i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lichtenberger.
president, commissioner dimas, ladies and gentlemen, the netherlands has played an important role in the development of the high seas directive as it stands today. it is important to have a legislative framework for the assessment and management of flood risks, respecting the principle of subsidiarity. what can be done locally, we do locally, such as measures to prevent the overflow of sewage. it's a way of protecting the environment, public health and the economy. a low-lying country like the netherlands is dependent on many surrounding countries for water management. it is therefore important that member states do not take measures that lead to higher flood risks in other countries. a coordinated approach is therefore required. i therefore attach great importance to the concept of solidarity, which is reflected in this proposed directive and is mentioned even more explicitly in amendments nos 48 and 61 of the compromise package, which i wholeheartedly support. in addition to the concept of solidarity, it is also important that we include the expected climate change and its potential effects in the preparation of flood risk management plans, in order to be well prepared for the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seeber, for the good cooperation and congratulate him on this result.
- i'm the reporter. president. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that at this late hour, the qualitative part of the house is different from the quantitative part. that's how you'd have to see it. the commission has spent five years on producing a strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources. that's a long time. it is therefore extremely disappointing that the commission has not put forward such an ambitious proposal. the commission is right to point out the problem, which is that if we continue in the present way, we will inevitably be faced with the exhaustion of our resources in the near future. and with that, a serious threat to our economy and to our quality of life. but the commission then fails to come up with concrete action points. it calls for more research and more data. that's fine, but we can't wait years for that. like climate change, the problem of natural resources is now acute and we must take concrete action now. however, when you read the proposal, it seems that the commission lacks a sense of urgency. this does not invite the citizens to think about these problems, but they are the ones who have to do it. the core of the problem is simple. our ecological footprint, the environmental impact of our consumption, is far greater than the earth can handle. to give you a clear example: if this baby shoe is the ecological footprint that we should have to have a good balance in our natural resources, then this big men's shoe is the consumption that we have right now. you can see that that's really way too big. so let me give you an example. this is what we're doing right now. i'll be very honest with you, commissioner. the first tendency in the environment committee of parliament was to send the whole thing back to you and let the commission do its homework. but i do not think that this is very constructive, and we do not have the time to wait another five years for action. i therefore decided to make a serious proposal and called on all my colleagues to help me. and, i can tell you, my colleagues have been living it up. together we have been able to produce a large number of ideas for improving the commission's work in three or four months. i would like to thank my colleagues, because they have done a great deal. the report is not a fine one, but i hope that the message is clear. parliament wants concrete action and not delay. i shall now touch on a number of proposals. my first proposal concerns agriculture. agriculture is not now included in the thematic strategy, which i think is rather bizarre, considering that the agricultural sector is one of the largest producers and consumers of natural resources. so this sector is being deprived of a great opportunity. i understand that the reason for this is that dg agri and dg envi could not reach agreement on this. but it is unacceptable that the strategy should not be widely supported because of the quarrels among european officials. i also propose that european agricultural subsidies be linked directly to sustainability. to give an example: the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. in addition to agriculture, other sectors are wrongly excluded from the strategy, such as transport, fisheries and construction. we will have to intervene there too. in short, it must be a strategy for all policy areas. the structure of the strategy starts to a large extent with the consumer and the producer. we also proposed a life-cycle approach, a top 10 priority list of endangered natural resources, fiscal incentives, information provision, involving ngos and experts, the use of alternative recycling and reuse. in short, too many to mention here. i propose that the eu in general should aim to halve resource use by 2030. this is not science fiction, this is real necessity. of course, european policy should not prevent member states from doing even better. by setting the best-performing member state as an example for others, this can be further stimulated. i was pleased to hear commissioner dimas speak about the importance of natural resources during his last visit to the environment committee. i also sent him a letter asking for his cooperation. i therefore hope that this commissioner will advocate a more ambitious policy than the present commission document shows. if so, he can only welcome a critical report from parliament.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. first of all, of course, the victory of the democratic majority in both houses of congress, for which we congratulate them once again. but the bush administration is also changing. the tone has changed, and what we can see is that the influence of the state department and condoleezza rice has grown significantly. there is a call for more cooperation and we must respond to that. i was with the delegation in washington last week and it was clear that there was a change going on there. firstly, there is more support for something that has always been very important to us, effective multilateralism. support for this is growing, as is the search for cooperation with the european union on this issue. it is recognized that the iraq approach has failed and that we are looking for other avenues of cooperation to address security problems. afghanistan is cited by many as an example; we believe that the european union and the countries of the european union can work together with the americans in the framework of nato on projects that provide both security and reconstruction. there is also a debate going on there about missile defence. what struck us is that there is a greater desire for dialogue with the europeans, but also with the russians, but we remain critical of the outcome of that process. another important point we have raised is the middle east conflict. we want to stress again - and we hope the presidency will do so - that we must ensure that the new palestinian unity government is not left in the cold and we are looking for ways of supporting this new development. what we also noticed is that there is a search, especially by the democrats, for a new social agenda for the united states that puts a lot of emphasis on the health care problem, but also looks at doha. what can we do together to ensure that environmental and working conditions play an important role in trade negotiations? there are, of course, still criticisms. we've also reported them when it comes to returns and secret prison camps, when it comes to agreements on data protection. these are matters that must continue to be of concern to us. finally, when you add it all up, there is an important agenda for cooperation, based also on the common values already mentioned here. and finally, one last little thing: i hope that the presidency will also bring up the wolfowitz case at the summit if necessary, because we believe that this man has become untenable as the director of the world bank, given the important role of the world bank in the fight against corruption. (applause from the left)
mr president, the european union and the united states are facing immense problems in world politics today. first of all, the pervasive danger of islamic terrorism. what is more obvious than facing shared threats together? but it has not been that simple in transatlantic relations for years. it is too easy to point an accusing european finger at america. the european union is constantly confronted with stereotyped anti-american reflexes. they threaten to paralyse transatlantic cooperation time and again. now, you see, this is nothing less than a necessary survival strategy. i therefore wish you, council and commission, every success in creating a good transatlantic working environment. this effort on our part is contrary to the american idea of unruly exotic europeans. the pooling of transatlantic forces will in any case result in a constructive working relationship. the stakes of every transatlantic summit, right?
the eu is rightly critical of the bush administration's approach to the fight against terrorism. but this is not anti-americanism as some of the hollow and cheap reproaches here in this chamber sound, because in the united states itself the attitude towards the bush administration and the way in which human rights are trampled is far more critical than here in europe. but it is not enough to complain that the united states is imposing its policies on europe and that we do not agree with them. instead of complaining and whining, the european union must finally speak with one voice, because only then can we uphold our own principles. we must be a strong and credible interlocutor for the united states, because protesting with 27 little beeps does not make any impression. i would just like to point out that the cia rendition scandals, the swift scandal, the illegal wiretapping, the fbi's misuse of national security letters were not denounced by the europeans, but by the united states itself. finally, mr president, cooperation with the americans, yes, but not in secret, undemocratic little groups like the high level contact group, but simply in a democratic procedure.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank my esteemed colleague and friend, the rapporteur, mr swoboda, for the work he has done and to congratulate him on his report. the report shows that the rapporteur is closely following developments in the applicant country of croatia. croatia has made great progress and taken important steps towards eu membership, which is rightly highlighted in this report. at the same time, the rapporteur is honest and open about what remains to be done and about the reforms we expect from the croatian government in the coming period. my group is committed to the european perspective of the western balkan countries and once again and emphatically supports the candidacy of croatia wholeheartedly. the commitments of the european council and the question of croatia's accession to the european union are therefore beyond doubt for my group. it should be noted that we are starting from the accession criteria and the renewed enlargement strategy, on which we reached a broad consensus in this parliament last december and which are also supported by the commission and the council. this does not mean that croatia has different criteria than previous candidates. it does mean that we expect the croatian government to continue to work on the basis that was laid in large part by the previous government led by prime minister racan. and that leaves us with one final challenge: the european council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the political and economic crisis. we cannot force either process, but since the aim is also to have a solution in place by mid-2009, as regards the future of the constitution, my group and i do not see any insurmountable obstacles to completing the accession process of croatia without undue delay.
mr president, i would like to propose the following changes to paragraph 13. firstly, that the word ‘welcomes’ be replaced by the word ‘notes’. secondly, that we add at the end: ‘regrets, however, the lack of democratic oversight due to the exclusion of the european parliament and national parliaments from this dialogue’. finally, we also propose deletion of the word ‘political’ before ‘framework’.
mr president, i think that is acceptable.
in writing. unfortunately, my group did not have time to speak on croatia this morning. we regret that negotiations with this country have been seriously delayed as a result of the war in the 1990s and that it could not be admitted to the eu at the same time as slovenia. the country is no longer dominated by extreme nationalists and is accepting the protection and return of minorities. croatia is now better prepared for eu membership than some of the states that have already joined. croatia is particularly disadvantaged because some within the eu do not want to admit new member states until the eu constitution rejected by the dutch and french voters is introduced. outraged by this delay, croatian public opinion is now turning its back on the eu. my group believes that the swoboda report makes extreme demands for the sale of state enterprises and the closure of shipyards. it has always been argued that the eu does not favour ownership in the economy and that public and private enterprises can coexist freely. we now threaten to impose strict requirements on newcomers. my group also rejects all the amendments based on italian claims to croatian territory and on the denial of war crimes during the occupation under mussolini.
in writing. i warmly welcome this human rights report, and in particular the line of self-evaluation it has chosen. it is important that the effectiveness of european human rights policy be closely examined and indeed critically evaluated. i am also convinced that a consistent european foreign policy must give absolute priority to the promotion of democracy, since a democratic society is the only breeding ground for respect for human rights. i am also in favour of an independent, operational european instrument for the promotion of democracy, with the example of the endowment for democracy in the united states in mind. because we need a human rights policy that is independent of diplomatic or economic relations.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the situation created by the conflict between the president and the parliament is not good for the country. it will undoubtedly also have an impact on cooperation between the european union and ukraine. as long as the country is in a constitutional impasse, it will be difficult to have further talks on closer cooperation, let alone make any concrete progress. but i think we should not be led to believe that this crisis will undo the results of the dramatic events of the winter of 2005 and 2006. the orange revolution led to a fundamental democratization of the country. ukraine today is a fundamentally different country from the ukraine before the orange revolution and the european union has played an important positive role in this change. at the same time, we must recognize that the orange revolution has not bridged the great contradictions in that country. there is still no consensus on the country's course. the current conflict is an expression of the division of that country. it is also an expression of the fact that a stable balance has not yet been found between the role of the different political actors, the power of the different institutions and the different visions of the country's future. it is not for us to choose sides now in the first place. the case is currently before the constitutional court in kiev. at the moment i see no serious reason to trust that they will be able to make a correct judgment on the correct institutional balance. that court has previously shown itself to be independent. however, a very important part of the responsibility lies with the political actors and the political class. without a compromise on that side, constitutional solutions will not work either. this means that they will have to do everything possible to invest in a compromise that does not further divide the groups but brings them closer together. the european players can and must play a role in this, a mediating role, and i welcome the comments made by mr gloser on this. we too have an interest in this, because to rush ahead on the present basis will only lead to losers in ukraine, but it will also make the eu a loser, because we are having a hard time playing our part there. the challenge now is to overcome internal contradictions so that the reforms needed for closer ties with the eu, needed to give substance to ukraine's own ambition to join the european union, can be pursued. this is the only credible basis for achieving the ambition of all political parties.
the future of the european union and the future of ukraine are, in my view, politically linked. the eu-27 will have to give its geographical scope, its borders, a treaty status. ukraine, as a european country, should in principle join that. the creation of this clarity opens up european prospects for ukraine. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. besides, a fair choice for all ukrainian citizens. all this, mr president, sounds like a very distant future, given the overall political crisis in which ukraine is currently found. however, even within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the cacophony in kiev already requires a strong and creative contribution from brussels. for the sake of lasting stability on their own eastern border, the council and the commission cannot leave it to ukraine! how do you reconcile these strategic interests of the union with a bleak outlook for ukraine?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i think that the ppe-de group also knows that today we are not just talking about one statement by one minister. it is a much broader debate. i think it is obvious to the majority in this house that this motion has only been put forward because some people do not want to discuss discrimination against homosexuals. however, we are politicians in a democracy and if you do not like a resolution, you simply vote against it. i cannot understand why this should be inadmissible. next time we will declare a debate about the internal market as inadmissible! the topic falls within the remit of the european union. equal rights are at the core of the european union. since the treaty of amsterdam – i do not know whether everyone is aware – article 13 stipulates that we have a role in anti-discrimination legislation. it is not the first time that we have discussed homophobia and nor, unfortunately, will it be the last. my point is that it is very clear: it is admissible because it falls within our remit. the only reason it can be otherwise is because you do not wish to discuss it. let us debate it this afternoon and take account of it when we vote, but let us not distort a debate. (applause)
i would like to make one point. this resolution is not about poland, it is about homophobia. unfortunately, poland does not have a monopoly on homophobia, unfortunately it is everywhere. but it is true that we have been talking about the problems in poland for a year and a half and we are still talking about them today. as martine roure rightly said, it is not just anyone who has made such statements, it is opinion leaders, it is members of government who contribute to a climate in which hatred and violence become normal. two weeks ago in my own country - a country which is extremely tolerant and liberal - a homosexual man was beaten to death in the street because someone thought he looked too feminine. he was beaten to death! can you imagine that? such things happen in a climate created by people who are guilty of homophobic speech. so you can 't say , since there is no bill yet, there is nothing going on. i am also extremely pleased that mr weber, on behalf of the epp, and the ombudsman have so strongly condemned the statements of the polish minister in question. i would like to see the council and the commission make a similarly strong statement. the commission and especially the council have said, we have laws and we have rules and conventions; that's all wonderful, but that hasn't stopped people from making these kinds of homophobic statements so far. we'd like some more action. we would like the council to indicate, for example, what it is going to do with the minister for education. are you going to tolerate that minister of education sitting in the meetings of the ministers of education of europe or are you prepared to consider suspending this minister until he has renounced his statements? mr president, this is the first time we have made such statements about member states, because there are several in the european union. we are always the ones who are quick to point the finger at other countries, but i think that if we are serious as europe, if we are a community of values, we must first set things right at home. i hope that today we as the european parliament send a very clear signal to europe and the world that we stand for those values.
president. - mr president, first of all, perhaps for the last member's sake, perhaps for his own reassurance, we have indeed spoken in this house about hooliganism, but there is something else going on here. because in that case the government is not calling for all kinds of violence, whereas in this case, especially in the case of poland, i am beginning to think that homophobia is organized by the state, so to speak. if you look at the statements that were sometimes made by members of the polish government: "homosexuality would be demoralizing, perverse, a mental disorder, a threat to the community". i listened carefully to what commissioner spidla said; he said: "if a bill is proposed, i'm going to respond". i appreciate that and i also see that commissioner špidla sees why such a law would be a threat to european values and a breach of european laws. but there is something going on here too, and i am still missing that a little bit in the debate, because it is not, of course, the case that governments can make all kinds of proposals without any obligation and then withdraw them and we can then say: well, it's all good after all. because of course something is being set in motion: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the legislation on discrimination against women is respected. you do not really think that there can be any question of equal opportunities in the labour market if homophobia is widespread in society? so how do you deal with it? how do you deal with governments that actually promote homophobia? what are the implications for the labour market? i'd love to hear you say that. finally, the ppe: i'm sorry you supported the uen. you say it's only for procedural reasons. it would be very good if we could then have a whole delegation from parliament, including your group, at some of the gay pride marches in warsaw, in riga and in a lot of other countries. i would really appreciate it if we could stand there hand in hand. by this invitation! maybe we can make it happen!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. that's promising for the rapid response teams, too. last year, i was able to visit the frontex agency in warsaw with mr deprez and others. that was a very educational experience. the agency was only a short-lived entity and the work was in full swing. in addition, public and political expectations are high. such high expectations can lead to disappointing results. the mandate of frontex is limited. for the deployment of rapid intervention teams, the agency shall rely on the cooperation of the member states. however, there are two points on which i am concerned about the implementation of the proposal. perhaps commissioner borg can answer and relieve my concern about this. my first concern is the availability of people and equipment. member states are involved by frontex and have undertaken to cooperate. only in exceptional cases may member states derogate from that obligation. i would like to hear from the commissioner what exceptions the member states have agreed to. and is this sufficiently defined so that frontex can provide people and equipment within the time limit? the second concern concerns coordination in the member states. frontex is asking for specifically trained people. in addition, there is a need for seaworthy equipment, particularly in the mediterranean. it seems to me that the defence organizations of the member states are the ones who are most capable of making these men and equipment available. and that is while the ministers of justice are making promises about this in the council. in my country, for example, the minister of justice must consult the ministers of defence and the minister of the interior on the commitment of personnel and equipment. each minister has his own interests. can the commissioner say whether this coordination problem is also present in other member states and to what extent the defence organisations are involved?
mr president, i shall try to make my statement in one minute. this is particularly true from the perspective of the financial markets and what is happening there at the moment in the sphere of private equity and hedge funds that are gaining influence on companies through shareholder rights. i am very disappointed that the present european commission does not come forward with proposals on workers' rights, particularly in those large transnational companies, whereas everything is being done to improve shareholder rights. we have just adopted a report on this in february. it is clear that there is a huge imbalance between what is done for shareholders to gain more influence over companies - and they can do that purely from their own financial perspective - while not taking into account the consequences for employment, for the quality of employment and for workers' rights. so i think that balance needs to be restored very quickly and a suggestion might be to bring the fifth companies directive back into the picture and to ensure that there is a better balance between the interests of shareholders and employees in the supervision of companies.
mr president, following the debate on the commission statement, we would like to update the motion for a resolution by adding a new paragraph 12a which would read: ‘welcomes the fact that the european commission has started the procedure for a new directive that would enlarge the scope of directive 2000/78/ec on equal treatment in employment and social occupation to include areas of discrimination outside the labour market;’.
president. - the zimbabwe i knew was a proud country, a leader in the region, proud of its hard-fought freedom, a beautiful country where black and white zimbabweans believed in the future, where black and white together tried to overcome the painful racist wounds of the rhodesia period. a country where citizens worked to build a democracy. and now for zimbabwe with today's hard numbers. life expectancy in zimbabwe is now one of the lowest in the world: 37 years for men and no more than 34 years for women. 80% of zimbabweans live below the poverty line. a third of the population has fled their own country, millions have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. every month, another 50,000 refugees are added to that number. the economy of the country, once the breadbasket of africa, has shrunk by 40% in one decade. improvement is not yet in sight. the zimbabwean economy is still shrinking by 5.7% and zimbabwe is the only country in africa where the economy is not growing. there is hyperinflation, as has been said before, which makes it impossible for many zimbabweans who have remained in zimbabwe with massive unemployment to meet their basic daily needs. the european union has rightly decided to impose even more extensive personal sanctions on the zimbabwean leaders who have brought about this destruction by means of state terror. as we all know, it takes a lot more to find a way out. that solution is set out in our joint resolution. it is about transition in the post-mugabe period, describes concrete steps and actions and rightly makes a dramatic appeal to mbeki and the sadc members to block the door of state terror, if necessary with force, and open the way to dialogue in the post-mugabe period. president, we support the broadest possible opposition to mugabe and to zimbabwe. we ask the council to broaden the scope of sanctions. anyone responsible for the ever-tightening slide in this once proud country must be dealt with, including ministers, deputies, military leaders, the police and secret service, and the governor of the central bank. we ask the uk to use its presidency of the security council to put zimbabwe on the agenda. finally, mr president, we really hope that mbeki will play an even greater role in bringing the mugabe regime to an end. mugabe's role in zimbabwe must be played out for good after nearly three decades.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). what does the president of zimbabwe have to do with this extraordinary profession? all of it! because in the immediate vicinity of mugabe's estate - the largest private residence in africa - honest citizens are keeping their heads above water by a daily mousetrap. the animals are like beef to us, they said. so deep has zimbabwe, until recently the wheat barn of africa, sunk under the tyrannical rule of robert mugabe. this is the basis of the foolish as well as criminal campaign which has seen thousands of productive farms of white owners confiscated since the year 2000 and handed over to mugabe's incompetent and indifferent henchmen with the resulting widespread famine. and incidentally, mugabe's zanu-pf party is using food shortages as a weapon against the opposition. the ultimate criticism of mugabe's lust for power was recently voiced by correspondent r.w. johnson. he reported that in zimbabwe people are being massacred like animals and that the vast majority of deaths are the direct result of deliberate government policies. this genocide, ignored by the un, is perhaps ten times greater than in darfur. similarly, arnold tsunga, chairman of the human rights organization crisis in zimbabwe coalition, said: "we are not going to let the situation get worse. tsunga called mugabe's policies "smart genocide" because they go unnoticed by governments, aid organizations and the press. the council, the commission and the members of this house must not and must never let this accusation of a clever, silent genocide stand until it is withdrawn.
the european parliament has been a party to the treaty of rome since the beginning of the twentieth century, and it is not the council that has been the party to the treaty of rome. i remember that the long-dead german radical student leader rudi dutschke, known as the bürgerschreck, warned the left in western europe against this attitude. in his view, what was happening in russia at the time had nothing to do with socialism or communism, but everything to do with a tradition he called "asian". it is a tradition in which a small group manages to maintain control by the most brutal means in a large and sparsely populated country. if someone comes to power in russia who wants to break this bad state of affairs, there is still a good chance that he will be succeeded by someone who will resort to the old abuses. khrushchev in the '50s and '60s and gorbachev in the '80s and '90s couldn't change russia from the top down. the current president putin, like the tsars and stalin before him, is again fully in line with that old russian tradition. he was able to come to power when his chaotic predecessor, yeltsin, was no longer able to govern, was able to make himself popular with the russians by destroying chechnya and is now able to deprive the russians of their democracy. unfortunately, it's the country that owns oil or natural gas. that possession and the wealth of exports gives the rulers a strengthened position of power and makes domestic changes almost impossible. the commission has also been criticized by a large part of the outside world for wanting to buy energy. after saudi arabia and iran, russia is now in that position. even in the two largest cities, where so far there has been the greatest room for criticism and diversity, demonstrations by opponents are being made impossible. the european countries and their citizens must not rest on their laurels, but must show solidarity with those who want to make russia a decent democracy.
author. mr president, gaza is a small but highly urbanized area, virtually cut off from the outside world. the port and airport, which were prepared with european union money, have not been able to develop thanks to the opposition of the neighbouring state of israel. nor has there been any open link with the much larger part of the future palestinian state along the jordan river. israel, which has long been a place of employment, has largely cut off that opportunity for fear of attacks and is allowing far fewer people through the erez border post. israel also controls the border crossing with egypt. in this isolated area, a large part of the palestinian population lives in a cramped situation, without work, without income and without adequate housing. the wise decision to withdraw the israeli settler villages from this coastal strip did solve something for the villagers hated by their neighbors, but hardly anything for all the other inhabitants. gaza is a disaster area full of people with no prospects for the future. that makes it a kind of prison, a breeding ground for desperate acts. for a long time, these acts of desperation were mainly suicide bombings against israeli targets, but kidnappings are also a part of it. alan johnston is the 15th journalist to be kidnapped in gaza and in the month since his abduction, nothing has been heard from him for a long time. all the palestinian leaders, president mahmoud abbas, prime minister ismail haniya and the imprisoned plo leader, marwan barghouti, are unanimous in condemning this kind of atrocity. in the absence of convincing successes in their quest for a state of their own and for the provision of services and income for their people, they are losing control of events. with no prospects for gaza, unknown criminals are taking over. for palestine and israel, it does not make the situation any better. as in iraq and afghanistan, it is becoming increasingly impossible for journalists to follow developments on the ground. that's why we must be alert, that's why the kidnapped journalists must be released.
in writing. the debate on zimbabwe was brought to the table this afternoon by mr pafilis on behalf of my group. i know that he and his greek party want to emphasize the longstanding conflict between the former british colonial empire and the independence movement led by the current president, mr mogabe. it is emphasized as a conflict between absolute evil and absolute good. with my colleague pafilis, i am voting for the moegabe of the 1970s and against colonialism. on the other hand, we have very different views on the present. i have made this clear in previous urgent debates. i am in favour of land reform, i.e. the division of land from large farmers to small farmers. however, the way this is done in zimbabwe has led to violence, intimidation and insecurity of livelihoods, including for the black farmers and farm workers. since then, the violent approach has spread to the cities. moegabe no longer serves his people against the colonial exploiters, but plunges his people into chaos, oppression and poverty. such a regime now relies on violence and intimidation and does not deserve to exist any longer. i therefore vote in favour of the resolution on zimbabwe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, globalisation and increased competition on a global scale call for new answers. innovation and regional policy can go hand in hand. the knowledge economy requires european investment that goes beyond infrastructure such as asphalt and concrete, it requires new instruments and that is the mission of the lisbon agenda and that of göteborg. mr president, the janowski report we are discussing today is about that. it shows very clearly how this can be done, regional clustering of activities, specialisation, research and development geared to sustainability and employment. in short, globalisation calls for a cohesion policy at a higher speed, for regional excellence in all areas. focus is a necessity. this is a vital contribution to economic growth and competition. mrs hübner has just said that correctly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the ppe group, mr president, would like to take up the fourth cohesion report to continue the debate on the basis of what mr janowski has said. the commission's proposal is to make an integrated and better use of the structural funds and cohesion policy, with a more targeted approach. more than 300 billion euros are available in the coming years. we can also show the future what this european added value is. i'm closing up. this will give greater visibility to regional policy, including in the debate on the midterm review and the financial evaluation of the commission's lisbon agenda later this year. these are the moments when we want to tackle the future orientation and the greater competitiveness together with the commission. in a moment jan březina will speak on behalf of the ppe-de group on the other important report, that of mr andria.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, i asked to speak before amendment no 67 was put to the vote. that might have cleared up a misunderstanding. the german presidency of the council agreed during the negotiations between 12 and 24 april that amendments nos 66 and 67 refer to 'significant' as a condition for subcontracting. the presidency offered the alternative term 'substantial', but the two largest groups ultimately did not need it at the time. the rapporteur and the other members of the house then decided that the amendments tabled jointly by six groups should use the word 'major'. i agree with them on the substance, but i have always warned that this is not part of the compromise reached and that in theory it could lead to the need for a third reading. the christian democrats and the social democrats were confident that they could persuade the council, and especially germany, which was the main opponent, to accept this amendment, and i was happy to follow them. and i now see that they are also condemned to maintain that, given that so many people have stood up against a vote on an oral amendment in which they would like to have all this reversed.
in writing. the european commission's proposal in 2000 to make all public transport compulsory to tender was in line with the political fashion of the day. the idea then prevailed that the government should withdraw from many tasks, that this could reduce taxes and that the market could regulate everything in an adequate way. this was part of the agreements made at the lisbon summit of heads of government a few months before this proposal, in the expectation that more markets and more profits would also lead to greater economic growth and even better and cheaper services for citizens. this neo-liberal ideology has since collided with reality. the lisbon strategy is not delivering what was expected. the market is not the answer, particularly in the case of services which are both necessary and unprofitable, such as public transport. it would lead to the disappearance of integrated networks, leaving only the busiest lines. over the past seven years, experience with privatisation and tendering has increased, and the disappointments experienced have contributed to the growth of counter-forces. my objective as rapporteur, the preservation of municipal transport companies and freedom of choice, was partly achieved by this.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to make a number of points in this debate. it is clear that health services are a fundamental part of the european social infrastructure. if there is anything specific about europe, if there is anything specific about europe that distinguishes it from others, it is that we make a high level of health care available to all citizens, regardless of their personal background. our starting point in the whole discussion is therefore that patients should ultimately be helped at a high level and preferably as close as possible to where they live, because it also turns out that most patients need it. but of course there are situations where you cannot do otherwise, for example when there are waiting lists or when it comes to rare diseases that can only be solved at european level. and while health is still primarily the responsibility of the member states, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety welcomes the commission's initiative to start the consultation procedure to see what is the best form of action for the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your introduction. i would also like to thank mrs vergnaud for the pleasant cooperation. what is this about, because i have heard a few times that health services should not be covered by the services directive. the proposal for the present article is the result of the compromises that have been reached and thus takes account of the condition laid down by the ppe-de, pse and alde group, namely that health services should be included in the services directive as a lex specialis. but i understand that there has been a lot of commotion, and that is why i have tabled a substitute amendment which in fact provides for what the commissioner has just said. the right balance must be struck between the free movement of services, respect for patients' rights, freedom to practise medicine in europe and freedom of establishment. and that is what the new amendment provides for, and i hope that the pse group and the ppe-de group can accept that too, that we adopt the amendment together and that we will finally have a new proposal which, mr president, ensures equal treatment and solidarity for all europeans, and i mean for all europeans, and for all european patients. and not that medical services are simply considered a service of general interest, which puts them outside the european treaty, so that each member state sets up its own system again, closes its borders, there is no freedom, patient rights are not recognized and the rich do not get treatment in europe, but go back to beijing and buy the best quality they want there. if that is the aim of europe, then i think we are going back to the 17th century - that was a golden age - but i do not think that is the aim of europe. i hope therefore that the amendment tabled by the liberal group to replace article 71 will receive broad support, so that there can be a separate directive on health services, and that all the compromise amendments will be supported, at least by us, it is a good package. i hope that we will succeed in our endeavour.
president. - mr president, i was the health rapporteur for this parliament two years ago when we were discussing the services directive. then parliament followed my advice to exclude health services from the services directive. i am deeply saddened that, now that there is a proposal to undo this, parliament, by agreeing to it, is making itself completely untrustworthy. it is not just mr manders's pernicious amendment to bring health services back into the services directive - he is now also backing down on that, but he is still essentially saying the same thing - the whole idea of an eu health services directive is too intrusive for me. of course, there must be a proposal to ensure in a proper way the right of patients to seek care across borders, but this must not lead to member states neglecting their responsibilities for quality and quantity of good care. patients prefer to receive good care close to home and family. legal wrangling should certainly not be an excuse for liberalising eu health services. health services occupy a specific place in society. accessibility and quality must always be priorities, not profit-making. health care is not a market, and europe should not want to make it one. article 152 of the treaty states that health care is a matter for the member states and i believe that it should certainly remain so in the interests of patients and health care workers.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, with this important report by mr adamo, parliament is sounding the alarm. it's just a pattern that's too familiar. the commission and parliament show their ambition for the environment and then the heads of government and ministers make solemn declarations and even make agreements, but then they do not implement the plans. the member states block where the general interest of europe calls for action. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment. the protection of biodiversity must be a priority in all policy areas. the committee on agriculture and rural development sees the 2008 review of agricultural policy as a major new opportunity to tackle the decline in biodiversity. but that requires a bigger budget for rural development and a greater emphasis on nature and landscape protection. this also requires a critical evaluation of cross compliance measures. it is fine and logical to pay farmers for their services to the environment, but this must prove its effectiveness for biodiversity and for a sustainable europe.
on behalf of the ind/dem group president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, for her work. i would like to mention two other points. firstly, cases where compliance with environmental quality standards in a member state is technically impossible or entails disproportionate costs, both social and economic. i want to see a derogation for this, as in the water framework directive, article 4. my second comment concerns the inventory of losses. for example, shipping and tides release pollutants from the sediment. these substances were discharged at an earlier time. they should not be considered losses. the reason for this is that these substances have already been discharged at an earlier stage. to achieve all this, we have tabled two amendments on behalf of the ind/dem group, and i therefore trust that you will support amendments nos 66 and 67.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i do not think i need five minutes. the commissioner's introduction is clear. the report by my predecessor, albert jan maat, is, for the most part, concerned with the objective of fisheries policy in general. sustainable fishing, and the term 'sustainable' is clear and its meaning is also clear from what mr borg has just said and from what is in the agreement and the protocol. the main objective of the partnership agreement with greenland is to strengthen the relations between the union and greenland. cooperation based on mutual trust is now more necessary than ever, mr president. we have all known for some time that the fisheries sector is going to undergo major changes in the years to come. the decline in fish stocks and the movement of fish stocks - particularly from sea warming, think of cod - but also the reduction in fishing quotas, which is being implemented, are forcing the fisheries sector to operate differently. that has been made clear to the industry and is becoming clear and the industry is also increasingly taking action. for many fishermen, it is a profound change in their entrepreneurial spirit. the new entrepreneurship must eventually lead to an improvement in fish yields in the future, but in the longer term. sustainable fishing, in other words, where the catch in the sea is in balance with the production there and where fishing also has the least possible impact on the underwater environment. fishermen, i read in the report, must become more of a manager of the sea than just a hunter of fishing grounds and fish stocks. this requires cooperation, and not just between each other, and by 'amongst' i mean between member states and even with partners like greenland, particularly in order to achieve long-term improvements in the production chain. as rapporteur, i note that this is the commission's, and the commissioner's, commitment, and i have noted that our committee on fisheries has also reached this conclusion. i thank my colleagues for their constructive contribution and i warmly commend the report which albert jan maat prepared for me at the time. that was my contribution and i hope that the report will be adopted at the next plenary session.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr gaspari on his balanced report. i shall be voting in favour of this text tomorrow. as rapporteur for relations between the european union and china, i was particularly struck by the paragraphs on trade relations with the people's republic. i was surprised by the wording of paragraph 44, because i do not see china as the first and most obvious example of the positive effect of trade liberalization and active participation in global and competitive markets. the rapporteur agrees with me on this point, given his long list of concerns and points of disagreement which follows. in addition to the social and environmental problems and our concerns about the protection of european intellectual property, i would also like to mention the lack of access of european companies to the chinese market and dumping practices in china. this too is damaging to european industry. the chinese are indeed shielding their own market from foreign competition and at the same time favouring their own producers. mr president, an open economy in a globalising world is often wrongly confused with an economy without barriers. fortunately, the rapporteur does not take this line. in paragraph 17 of his report, mr gaspari rightly refers to the damage to the european economy caused by the behaviour of countries which do not respect the rules of trade. in response, the european union must protect itself against unfair trade practices. i therefore call on the commission to make it clear, within the wto and beyond, that the union does not tolerate unfair behaviour. however, this implies that the eu must also be prepared to impose effective sanctions with adequate trade defence instruments. not out of a protectionist reflex, but because in some cases only coercion helps to guarantee a level playing field for eu business.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. mr president, trade and development cooperation are very closely intertwined, as the commissioner rightly said. if we are to achieve the mdgs by 2015, aid and trade can and must complement each other. the developing countries need our help to develop their regional markets further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. europe and its development partners must jointly seek a development task force capable of supporting this process of building up local markets. this task force should be composed of experts in the field of trade and development policy and could assist in the development and implementation of concrete trade-enhancing measures. we must also consider alternative tax revenues, the strengthening of production capacity, standardization and the creation of common external border controls. the human resources in particular need to be further developed. such practical support would be a real help in the flourishing of local markets and mutual trade. the eib is more likely to be considered for major infrastructure projects. but this trade-oriented aid must not be a cigar from its own box. so they're not going to be funded from the existing development budget. the pse group wants new money, otherwise there would be less money available to achieve the millennium goals, and that is, after all, the central objective which the commissioner has just set himself and which we wish him success with.
president. - mr president, we have been supporting developing countries for a long time in all areas except trade. this is one reason why countries and their economies have remained heavily subsidized. economic growth is proving to be indispensable to combating poverty effectively. look at the tremendous progress that countries in asia have gone through. korea is a good example. we are therefore increasingly finding that trade offers exceptional opportunities for economic growth in poor countries. developing countries often do not yet have the right infrastructure to operate in the world market. that is why these countries need our support and why trade-related aid exists. the aim is to enable developing countries to function in the international market. for example, through trade-related assistance, countries can improve regulation in areas that affect trade, such as taxation and customs. it is about improving roads and waterways, fighting fraud and corruption, strengthening production capacity and diversification. after all, many countries depend on only one agricultural product. diversification of products promotes a more stable economy. capacity building is also needed to train good negotiators. mr president, since trade-related aid does this, it helps poor countries to strengthen their economies and increase their independence, and that is why i welcome this initiative. trade-related aid, as has been said, is not a panacea for development, but it is necessary to enable developing countries to enter the international market. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr david martin, on the content and also on the pleasant cooperation which has resulted in a report with a strong content and broad support. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. everyone agrees that trade can help to combat poverty. unfortunately, the trade advantages for the acp countries provided for in the cotonou agreement are not working in practice. the same is true for everything but guns. this is all due to the poor trading conditions in the developing regions in question, the high standardised european import requirements and the still unreformed and practical rules of origin. these problems mean that the acp countries are not yet able to participate in the world economy. in fact, they're pushing it even further away. the debate on economic partnership agreements should therefore not be primarily about the conclusion of free trade agreements but about the conclusion of development contracts. the development of trade in the region, including the institutional framework and human resources which are difficult to develop, and the millennium development goals should be central to these development contracts. it is only in the longer term that we can talk about opening up the eu's markets. that is the problem as far as we are concerned. everything seems, and this is of course logical, because the deadline expires on 1 january, everything seems to be aimed at 1 january 2008. but in the meantime the flexibility offered in the negotiations is not really sufficiently linked to development indicators and much more to rather vague time indications. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. is the commission prepared to link eu access to the markets in question to a development benchmark so that we can be sure that the local markets are ready for it? moreover, is the commission prepared to accept explicitly the alternative of sap+ for those regions which do not want to conclude an epa - and again, we fully support the negotiations on this - but which decide not to conclude an epa? we are aware of the technical debate, but we believe that if we do not look at bananas and sugar - which have already been put in brackets in practice, including by ourselves - that for 98% it is indeed a real alternative to the current commercial advantages. if the eu is also prepared to work on a rapid reform of the rules of origin - and the commissioner has just confirmed this in another debate - then that could mean that we are going a long way in this. on the singapore issues: it is a good thing, of course, if the regions themselves want to do something about it at a certain moment. there's nothing wrong with that. just, let's not get ahead of ourselves. it is of the utmost importance, mr president, to meet the time pressure of the epo negotiations. i told you that already. and that is why we want to focus on the development contract thinking, where the pse group says: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the epo comes out like that, it's great, and if it doesn't, it's just not a good offer. and be prepared to bring sap+ on the table as a real alternative and to speak openly and frankly about it in the discussions.
madam president, the hamas charter is a sacred text with three islamic seals. unlike the secular plo, hamas does not recognise the concept of peace. the plo may want a two-state solution, but hamas wants to eliminate israel. what does the hamas charter say? in article 7 it mentions an islamic world order and the destruction of all jews. articles 22 and 28 say that the jewish people created the french and russian revolutions, the first and second world wars, but also the united nations, drugs and alcohol abuse, and control of the mass media. stopping the conflict with israel is high treason and perpetrators will be cursed, according to article 32. cooperation with hamas would make the eu morally responsible for a peace process leading to the elimination of israel. we must help the palestinians, but not by facilitating the hamas agenda.
mr president, at the beginning of february, the german press, the frankfurter allgemeine, published a very gloomy report on the european union's police mission in the palestinian territories. "you are working here in a swamp of deception and corruption", its outgoing leader macgyver, a briton, frankly judged. months later, the situation has only worsened with the escalation of the fatah-hamas rivalry. the question therefore arises, council and commission: how do you see the value of continuing the eu mission to build up a civilian police force in the west bank and gaza? you'll be sorry to be partly responsible for the widespread injustice there, won't you? meanwhile, reuters news agency reported yesterday that the european union is extending its border mission in rafah for another year under the telling, unchanged motto "palestinians are responsible for the border". their police are looking to stop the smugglers of weapons, drugs, money and people, according to palestinian insiders. that's my source. the same question to the council and the commission: do you want to take some responsibility for that?
on behalf of the pse group president. - i have two preliminary remarks. i fully agree with the commissioner when he talks about a strategic partnership and the value of it and says that we must continue the dialogue with russia and we must see what we can get out of it on the basis of our own principles and values. second point: i'm dutch. i wasn't born in eastern europe. i have always lived in freedom and i grew up in freedom. i think it is very important for me, as a representative of a so-called 'old' member state, to say something about what has happened to estonia and the way in which russia has dealt with it. it is also important to note that things connected with the past are always sensitive, both to us and to others. you have to be careful with that. i'm a historian myself, and i know how dangerous it is to put too much history into politics. i always advocate a certain self-restraint. but that does not take away from the fact that my group's solidarity extends to estonia and that must also be the basis for the european position in the conflict that has arisen between estonia and russia. this conflict is not just russia's, it is the whole of the european union's, and this is the position that was made very clear by commission president barroso in samara. the european union has not tried to downplay the conflict. russia's response was inappropriate and unacceptable. the european governments and members of parliament have tried to interfere in the internal affairs of a member state of the european union, and that is unheard of. in addition, the russian authorities did nothing to protect the functioning of the estonian embassy in moscow, which in effect turned the conflict into a diplomatic crisis. i think - and the resolution says it well - that the russian authorities, but perhaps also ourselves, would do well to replace the hostile rhetoric with an attempt to contribute to a dialogue, also between the communities in the countries we are talking about, estonia and latvia, and not to make matters worse, because that dialogue is also necessary to create relations within those countries which are in line with european values. i hope that the message of dialogue, the message of talking about the future, not just about the past, will also reach moscow.
i hope that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to give its opinion on this matter. let me begin by apologizing to our shadow reporter, mrs gottardi. i'll take over from her. i must say that i myself have watched with great amusement how mrs lulling, like a true marianne, has led this struggle, this revolt against this proposal for a directive and this proposal to raise the minimum rates of beer and alcohol in line with inflation. that's a subject you can score well on. i guess so. of course, taxation is an unpopular topic, and beer and alcohol are very popular topics. but then, we in our group were not dragged along because, as mrs berès has already said, we feel responsible for the internal market and for fair competition. the only criticism i would like to make is that this directive, as it was drafted in the early 1990s, is naturally very bad legislation, because it uses absolute numbers. that is not a good way of doing things, especially when you have to decide by consensus, because then it is almost impossible to change those absolute numbers ever. that is why i am so charmed by the proposal that commissioner kovács has put forward together with the finnish presidency to provide for automatic indexation. i think it was a very good gesture not to start at the same high level as in the original proposal, but to start a little more modestly with the first increase that is to come. that is why we in the pse group have tabled these proposals as amendments, as they are now being discussed in the council. i think it would be very wise and good policy if parliament voted in favour of this by a majority tomorrow.
mr president, it is very special that two former colleagues are sitting down here, mr wuermeling and mrs reding, and i welcome them and thank them for putting forward this proposal, which will probably be a good thing for the european consumer. it 's a special one . as a liberal, i am very much against any intervention in consumer prices, especially in the free market, where the commission and parliament also say: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. it is very special that i am now going to vote in favour of intervening in consumer prices. why, mr president? because the commissioner - and i hope that was the view expressed in the committee on industry - has emphasized that after three years there will be a european market and not 27 markets clustered together within national borders. because that's where the mistake lies, as far as i'm concerned. there's also the abuse at the phone companies. it is interesting to note that most consumers who pay high roaming charges and are not reimbursed by their employer or through other schemes are holidaymakers. they call from ski lift to ski lift or from beach chair to beach chair, and they're sitting in spain on a beach chair five meters from their boyfriend or girlfriend, but the call goes to the home country first and back again. we need to get rid of that. i think it is good that we are giving an incentive to industry and that in three years we will have a truly functioning internal market for mobile telephony and will be free of roaming. and that i, as a consumer, can choose where i sign my contract. then there's something else i'd like to report: i was surprised to find that the rate is exclusive of vat. everyone is talking about 49 cents maximum. that is exclusive of vat, so the consumer still gets a little sausage thrown in his face. that means there's still a 20% on top. i also hope that the basic contracts, not the minute-by-minute calls, but the basic contracts for which we have not explicitly made any arrangements, will not be abused, because then we will have to intervene again. i hope that the system will work, commissioner and mr wuermeling, and that we will ensure that consumers are satisfied with europe, but above all that the internal market will function.
mr president, first of all, thank you to our negotiating team. we have all achieved a balanced result. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is too much unclear for holidaymakers who use their mobile phones abroad. the skyrocketing cost of calls and the high cost of calls are creating unpleasant surprises when the bill comes in a month later. we are now setting maximum prices, although, as far as i am concerned, they are still on the high side. more importantly, we demand more transparency from the telephone companies. when calling from abroad, it should be clear what exactly it costs. if prices are transparent, normal competition can also be created and then maximum prices are no longer necessary. if all goes well, telephone companies will soon be offering rates below the maximum. there is still some disappointment about the date of entry into force and it would be a good thing if the telephone companies themselves took the initiative of offering more favourable rates before the summer holidays, i.e. before 1 july. the vacationer has been a milk cow for too long.
mr president, may i add four comments to my agreement today? first of all: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. secondly: small operators, such as kpn in the netherlands, are not pushed out of the market, because the purchase prices are also well regulated. thirdly, the border regions have achieved a superb result. now it's like you're being pulled off a network at any given moment. it's a wild west situation in the regions. the commission will now be informed annually of the situation in each country. and parliament will continue to monitor this closely in order to deal with this undesirable situation which can be resolved. and finally, my final comment. we talk a lot in this parliament about better legislation. this is a model of better legislation. the scheme ceases to exist when the social partners, the operators, assume their responsibility. there is a good balance between the recognisable policy of parliament and our own responsibility. i commend mrs reding and the rapporteur, mr paul rübig. here, visible policies are being implemented with concrete results.
i should like to request that the document be referred back to committee, because now we have contradictory voting outcomes.
the last sentence of amendment no 23 now reads: 'calls on the eu to set up the compensation mechanisms required to avert consequences of this sort'. objections have been raised to this because it seems as if we, the eu, should bear all the financial consequences. to avoid that, i propose as an oral amendment 'calls on the eu to help to set up the compensation mechanisms required to avert consequences of this sort'.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to welcome prime minister balkenende and thank him for accepting my invitation. in the netherlands, the new government has just spoken to society for 100 days, but it has been silent on europe for 500 days. it's good that that's over. but the question is, of course, whether people have been listened to. you seem to have been selective in your shopping. in your interpretation of the 'no' vote, you only choose those objections to the constitution which lead to a less ambitious treaty, to fewer changes. and yet, that is a very bizarre consequence. do you really think that people voted against the european treaty because they are so satisfied with the present european union? do you also think that the flag and the national anthem are really their biggest problem? 80% of those who voted 'no' in the netherlands also thought that the negotiations should be used to achieve more fundamental reform and to democratize europe. 68% of people also want a genuine european foreign and security policy. but i find nothing of that far-reaching democratic ambition in your proposals. you also want to remove the foreign minister. you just want less, and you present that as an inevitable development. it's a bit like a dissatisfied customer going back to the bike dealer and being told, "yes, you can trade the bike, but only for a step". but, mr. president, i don't want a step, i just want a better bike. i'll take one with brakes on it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but brakes only work if there are pedestrians. you say people like to have more control. but that is not in keeping with your commitment to the charter of fundamental rights. you have not mentioned it here, but i do have a text of the discussions in the national parliament in the netherlands. you say: "in the approach of an amending treaty without constitutional pretensions, the text of the eu charter of fundamental rights should not be incorporated in its entirety". that's a bizarre way of explaining the "no"! i'm sure very few people would have voted against the constitution because it gave them more rights. (applause from the left) the european charter of fundamental rights, unlike the echr, also contains fundamental social rights, and these can act as a bulwark against anti-social intervention by brussels in the welfare state. well, that's a bike brake i'd like to see. finally, mr president, the real reason for your omission of the flag, the constitution, the charter of fundamental rights and the anthems is purely domestic. if the treaty no longer has the characteristics of a constitution, then you can avoid a referendum in the netherlands. perhaps we can draw a comparison. my party is also prepared to forgo a national referendum if you fear that you will be isolated again in the future. but perhaps we could have a european referendum instead. you are no longer isolated, but you are doing justice to the democracy of the 21st century. i'd like your comments on that. (applause from the left)
president. - mr prodi, the italian prime minister, yesterday said that the members of this parliament must defend the old draft european constitution in their countries and that this draft already contains so many compromises that further compromises are almost impossible. and that's a story that's going to do well here, because this is a place where democracy is primarily seen from a large-scale level and from the top down. it is proving to be a very difficult match for a small-scale democracy from below, where many more people feel involved. in 2005, the member states' parliaments also had a large majority in favour of the constitution. in the netherlands, the figure was 85%. unlike in france, where only the president decides on the subject of a referendum, in the netherlands the decision is taken by the parliament. the referendum was proposed by three parties that were pro-constitutional and that sincerely expected voters to share their views. nevertheless, at a high turnout, 62% said "no". in belgium, germany, great britain, sweden and denmark, too, a majority of the electorate would very likely have said 'no' if they had been given the chance. the dutch prime minister balkenende is having a harder time here today than his italian counterpart did yesterday. at the beginning of this year, in accordance with the wishes of the voters, the following was agreed in the coalition agreement for his government - and i quote: 'the aim is to amend and possibly consolidate the existing treaties of the european union, guaranteeing subsidiarity and democratic control and clearly distinguishing itself in content, scope and name from the previously rejected constitutional treaty'. the dutch government rightly makes it clear that in the european union the national parliaments must have a stronger voice and that national decisions on public services must not be disturbed. this is contrary to the constitutional text which calls for ever-increasing liberalisation of services and free and unadulterated competition. this parliament, which supported my proposal on 10 may to give the member states, their regions and their municipalities more freedom in the way they organise their public transport, should understand this. i say to minister president balkenende and his government: if you do not receive enough support in this parliament today, it does not mean that you are isolated in europe. you have the difficult task of fulfilling your government agreement. there is no reason to let you have the law written by those who still adhere to the old draft constitution. (applause from the left)
president, prime minister, as a dutch member of parliament, i am very pleased to see you in the european parliament. in this house, too often, since the 'no' vote against the european constitution in our country, we have spoken about the netherlands instead of with the netherlands. it will be clear that i broadly agree with the efforts of the dutch government. i would like to make a few recommendations to you in preparation for the european council on 21 and 22 june. first of all, i share your concern with the constitutional aspirations of the constitution. i am thinking of the introduction of a permanent chairman. this figure will soon become a european president. i therefore propose a rotating presidency of three, for one and a half years, comprising a large, a medium-sized and a small member state. this avoids unnecessary concentration of power around the permanent chair and preserves the prospect of all member states holding a seat in the presidency on an equal footing. i support your wish, mr prime minister, to incorporate the copenhagen criteria into the new treaty. but it is equally necessary to define the frontiers of the european union in this new treaty. this is the right of the citizens and neighbours of the european union. i am thinking specifically of offering the prospect of long-term eu membership to countries such as ukraine, moldova and belarus. this is combined with a strong neighbourhood policy to help these countries solve structural problems. i have some reservations about your proposal to give national parliaments the power to block legislative proposals from the commission. i think it is better to give the european parliament the power to reject a commission proposal whereby national parliaments can express their concerns to the european parliament. this approach seems to me to be institutionally more pure and at the same time strengthens interparliamentary cooperation between the ep and the national parliaments. mr president, i would like to hear your views on these points. (applause from the left)
president, mr prime minister, mr president-in-office, first of all i would like to thank you for coming to strasbourg. it is in the interests of all of us that there should be a new treaty. now that france and the netherlands have voted against the draft constitution, it is necessary to look again for a text, as has already been said, in which all 27 countries can find themselves. it goes without saying that the netherlands has a special responsibility to make a full commitment to this. it is therefore important that you have once again expressed the sensitivities that exist in the netherlands and that you have indicated where solutions are being sought in the netherlands. the netherlands is a co-founder of europe and is still pro-european. every investigation has shown that. but the netherlands does not want too much europe, it does not want europe as a superstate, it does not want a constitutional character. the netherlands, you said, would like to see a more democratic and effective europe, with respect for the subsidiarity of the member states, and thus a europe which can take decisions by majority in more fields, and would like to incorporate the enlargement criteria into the treaty. it is also important that the sensitivities and wishes of the other member states be heard here. 18 countries have already expressed their views before the draft text and are attached to the progress that could have been made with the text that was there. the point now is that we should all come to a new treaty text in the short term. it's in the best interest of all of us. i was reminded of the words of paul-henri spaak, who said: "some countries realize they are small, others not yet. but in the end, no country can do it alone". he said that in the '50s. if that was the case then, how much more so now, in times of globalisation and internationalisation and with major international issues, for example in the fields of migration, energy, the environment and the fight against terrorism. you said: europe is a rarely successful project. and indeed, good for the countries, good for the people. what we can do better together, we should do together. what can be better regulated at national level, we must continue to do at national level. so it is not a question of debating for or against europe, but of how we can, in the short term, with all 27 member states, lay the most solid foundation possible for a europe that is decisive, transparent and decisive. the newspapers headlines: europe is high on the prime minister's agenda. i congratulate you on your efforts in the netherlands and in europe. (applause from the left)
president, i would like to welcome prime minister balkenende to the european parliament. we have, of course, a rather massive 'no' in the netherlands on the one hand and a rather massive 'yes' in the european parliament on the other. i think it is to your credit that in your contribution and in the replies you have tried to go beyond the 'no' and the 'yes' and to see how we can reach an agreement. it is not a treaty, i agree with the idea of a treaty, that is disguised, but a treaty that answers some of the essential questions we are facing. sometimes that means even more than the original constitution says, sometimes a little less or different. i would like to ask you a few very specific questions to try to get this debate going a little further. you have said that you support the idea of criteria for services of general interest so that countries can regulate housing, health care or other things more themselves. are you prepared to include some kind of basis for this in a protocol or in the treaty, so that there is also some kind of legal basis? secondly, you said something about the charter. i understand that you are saying the following about the charter: we, the dutch government, agree with the content of the charter, we also want it to be binding, but it does not have to be incorporated in its entirety if the new treaty merely contains a text which creates that binding character. my question is: do you have a formula that can do that? then i agree with your reasoning. a third point: the commission has already done so. your plea for subsidiarity is to create more space, to keep what is local local. do you have a formula for tightening subsidiarity, and what is it, compared with the formula contained in the draft constitution? are you prepared to give more room to regions as a test bed? a fourth point. you say: i want to abolish a lot of vetoes and then you as the european parliament have the right to co-decision, you have explicitly stated that, but in some areas you do not want that. is it mainly about criminal law? perhaps you could clarify your formula there. you also said: "minister of foreign affairs", that's not what we call it. what do we call it? finally, mr president, if the netherlands can have a treaty and if the netherlands can have a strong treaty, then i hope that the prime minister will take the lead in his own country, with the leaders of the other coalition parties, to inform and involve the dutch people in good time, so that a real debate can provide a basis for positive support for europe. (applause from the left)
prime minister balkenende, you have shown the courage to come here to the lion's den to explain the dutch position. i think that you have, in your first answer just now, emphasized with conviction the european vocation of the netherlands. it is a step towards a new treaty, and that is important, because we need that new treaty. because right now, it's just not going well enough. it must be more transparent, it must be more democratic, and therefore more powers for the european parliament and, as you rightly say, for the national parliaments. it must be more effective so that we can really deal with climate change, with energy policy, with immigration and with strengthening europe's role in the world. i understand your principles and your commitment to these talks. in the end, a pragmatic approach is also needed. because it is in the european and national interest that we get out of this impasse. i have confidence that you can, because, in response to what was said earlier, i know you a little. you're not a nationalist, and i know you're not lying. one final point. you say you support the single market. i am glad you say that, but then the deed must be added to the word. if all 27 member states are going to make exceptions to the single market, and the netherlands is going in that direction, as the debate there shows, then there will be no single market left and that is not good for european consumers and not good for the european economy.
i have just noticed that in the debate you are supported by the sp, vlaams belang, haider's party, the polish league of families and the eurosceptics from sweden and denmark. i'm just going to mention it. the commitment of the government is a sad indication of emptiness and a lack of responsibility for the future of europe. because with a mini-convention, we get mini-democracy, mini-influence for the citizens, mini-responsibility against climate change and terrorism. a mini-treaty would make europe a political dwarf. the fundamental rights must be legally enforceable. and is the labour party in this government really prepared to sacrifice fundamental rights to avoid a referendum? the national parliaments must be more involved. but not with paralyzing red-card procedures, but by finally developing active interest and knowledge. they can now, but they're just letting it slide. finally, there is a lot of demagogic talk about a superstate. let's stop with that, because i didn't hear your party talk about that when you campaigned for the referendum on the constitution. of course, matters such as security measures against terrorism must be taken at european level. but not as it is now, in back rooms, but simply in public, democratically and with majority decision-making. that's not a superstate, that's a democracy. prime minister balkenende, the netherlands can do so much better than this in europe. please show that.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, please do not take on the role of election observation chief, because that is a different role. the socialist group will now take up the matter. the european election observation mission found that the elections in nigeria were not credible. unfortunately, despite the improved atmosphere in which freedom of expression was respected during the campaign and despite the courts playing a positive and independent role, the electoral process, and therefore the results, cannot be considered credible. the council has said it, the commissioner has said it, and that is indeed the situation. the nigerian elections were poorly organised, not transparent, there were far-reaching procedural irregularities and clear evidence of fraud. the process was far below international and regional standards for democratic elections. the point just made by the council: the failure to publish the results at the polling station level and beyond, and the total lack of evidence and transparency, is the most serious problem and remains the most serious problem, because it leaves nothing to be proved or contradicted and the election result is therefore not credible. that is - and we note that - simply one of the harshest judgments we have made as an election observation mission in the various countries. this was especially painful because after 2003 there was real hope among the people that there would be real improvements. there was a commitment from the people. a lot of people had worked hard for it, were involved in it, so it's extra hard. if you look at april 14th compared to april 21st: the 14th, the governor's race, you had a lot of hope, and the 21st, it was just a demoralized situation. that explains the very low turnout, despite the fine figures that were later published. our european conclusion should be explicit in order to remain committed. i share the view of the council and the commission on this point. because after all, it is the nigerian people we are talking about who deserve a better future and also serious elections. that means that we cannot pretend in our diplomatic relations that the newly appointed government was democratically elected. that is a very difficult point, of course. we can do business as usual, but we have to stay involved there, be active. business as usual would undermine the credibility of our european election observation missions, but even more so our own values that we stand for when we act in the world and in such a country. so we have to recognize that there is a democratic crisis at the moment. it takes some form in court, where a number of people object and try to prove that things are not right. it is also taking shape and can also take shape through working groups of the senate and the house of representatives, which themselves are examining a number of things and trying to come up with new proposals. and of course we have to see how people in nigeria themselves come up with proposals on how to have credible elections. i have said before that it is not for us to regulate this precisely, but that is the essence and it would be good if our resources could be used in this respect, preferably not with the federal government and the state, but with all those actors in society who can promote governance and democracy in this way.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: above the article was a large picture of two shy, smiling nigerian boys holding up their ballots. i don't need to comment. the double vote in africa's most populous country in april ended in a human and political tragedy. over 200 dead, and a major fraud. the joint resolution before us is quite clear on this point. what about nigeria? i am very struck, mr president, by a page-long article and interview with the sitting president of nigeria, obasanjo, who says bluntly that nigeria's future lies in its connection with china. cheap loans, infrastructure, that's what i like. the european union is out of the picture. the council and the commission, what is the european union's response to this? do you have a material and an immaterial strategy for nigeria, indeed for the entire african continent, given these statements and this position?
president. - mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, it has already been said: it is the first time that the cites conference has been held in europe. this is an opportunity to raise awareness of the protection of wildlife. cites is one of the most effective and practical instruments for protecting international wildlife. yet, the decline in biodiversity is alarming. for example, a large number of fish species are not doing well. over-exploitation is one of the causes. the demand for fish is huge and still rising. the sad result is that many deep-sea fish species are now seriously threatened and that in many developing countries the sea has already been emptied, by europe, or at least by european boats. sadly, the story is similar for tropical forests. despite all the campaigns, the demand for tropical wood remains high. in addition, the demand for agricultural land is also increasing because of the need for food and because of the increasing demand for biofuels. that's at the expense of ancient forests. the european initiative to list a large number of fish species as protected species deserves all the support, as does the initiative to list a number of tree species. but we have to ask ourselves how we can do better. worldwide, the pressure on nature is increasing. increasing wealth is one cause, but in a number of developing countries poverty is the driving force. so we have to change course and we have to realise that protecting nature also creates wealth and jobs. we need to take steps to ensure that trade is truly sustainable and that illegal trade is really tackled and disappears.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one. that is why i wholeheartedly support the resolution. i would like to draw attention to one point, however, which has been raised several times this afternoon. it concerns the elephants in botswana and namibia. three quarters of africa's 400 000 elephants live in this region, posing risks to the population, nature and biodiversity. these countries have therefore put forward their own proposals to maintain the population and reduce the risks. unfortunately, the resolution rejects these proposals. on the one hand, it is understandable that people want to stop the trade in elephant products, and i agree with that, but on the other hand it is important to look at the situation in botswana and namibia, where there is such a huge increase in elephant numbers. we need to think this through. we cannot simply reject solutions without proposing alternatives.
yes i am, but not tonight because i have to be here at this time. i am very sorry. mr president, i would just like to say that adam gierek’s report comes just in time. omdat we voor een nieuwe en zeer forse uitdaging staan op wereldschaal. de globalisering prijst ons uit de markt. delen van onze klassieke maakindustrie verliezen het. en het spraakmakende rapport van de heer aho roept op tot clustering, meer bundeling, meer kritische massa, meer specialisatie, bundeling van creativiteit. we besteden in de unie ongeveer 43% van het budget aan versterking van de concurrentiekracht. structuurfondsen, geld voor onderzoek, geld voor de kleine en middelgrote ondernemingen. en toch blijft mijn vraag of we met deze instrumenten wel goed inspelen op de concurrentieverhoudingen. wat doen we als nu uiteindelijk blijkt dat we onvoldoende technisch opgeleide mensen hebben om een en ander uit te voeren? op wereldschaal blijkt dat we onvoldoende focussen, onvoldoende reliëf durven aan te brengen in europa via kennisregio's van velerlei aard. naar mijn idee, voorzitter, is open innovatie voor grote en kleine bedrijven, samen met kennisinstellingen en overheden, daarop het antwoord. tenslotte hebben we topregio's nodig. het gaat om topsport, voorzitter, daar sprak ook de heer verheugen over. technologieleidend willen zijn. zonder voortrekkers heb je geen gevolg, dan heeft het cohesiebeleid ook onvoldoende mogelijkheden voor inzet in geheel europa, ook in de minder ontwikkelde gebieden. dat is denk ik nodig. dat we de komende jaren ons beleid durven te herijken. meer focus. het verslag van de heer gierek levert daarvoor de goede basis en ik dank hem daar bijzonder voor.
member of the commission. madam president, i followed with great interest the very lively debate in the committee on foreign affairs on the kashmir report by baroness nicholson. there is much food for thought in this report. it is too comprehensive for me to be able to respond in detail today, but i should like to reflect on some of the issues which it raises. the focus on kashmir is timely. on the political front, there have been many positive developments, which, for the first time in many years, give some hope that this long-standing issue is getting closer to a solution. both india and pakistan have indicated that the line of control could become a ‘soft border’. the european union has expressed its firm support for the reconciliation process between india and pakistan. but the road is still full of pitfalls. it is encouraging that the composite dialogue process remains on track despite terrorism. i was in delhi when the terrible attacks on the daily lahore-samjhota express train took place last february. it would indeed be tragic if the peace process could be taken hostage by terrorists. i see no alternative to both countries addressing their differences through dialogue. this will, hopefully, lead eventually to settlement of all bilateral issues. i also feel it is important that the kashmiris themselves have become more involved in the arrangements for the peace process. i would like to say a few words about the terrible earthquake that struck kashmir on the morning of 8 october 2005 and which, as baroness nicholson’s report describes, had a devastating impact on the lives of the kashmiris on both sides of the line of control, especially in pakistan-administered kashmir and the north west frontier province. i had the opportunity to visit the earthquake-affected areas in person when i visited pakistan to represent the european commission at the earthquake reconstruction conference in november that year. the european commission responded to this tragedy by providing humanitarian aid of eur 48 million and by committing, in december 2005, a eur 50 million programme on ‘earthquake recovery and reconstruction support to pakistan’, which covers rehabilitation of education and health facilities in the affected areas, an emergency education programme and community-based livelihood recovery schemes. thus, we are aiming to do what the report recommends, namely help the most vulnerable and restore economic activities in the affected area. this earthquake response comes in addition to other development programmes in pakistan under our country strategy. although the commission has been quick to react to this challenge, i nevertheless expect that the reconstruction effort will still take a number of years. the commission’s reconstruction programme will be implemented over a period of five years. as far as the northern areas of pakistan are concerned, the commission has been active there over many years in developing human resources especially, in improving the public school system and in cooperating with the aga khan education services. while implementing our programmes there, we have ensured that all communities – and government schools – benefit from project activities. before i conclude, i would like to thank baroness nicholson for the encouraging words she found to recognise the work of the commission’s delegations in islamabad and new delhi. this is much appreciated. i would just like to add that i would have loved to have stayed for the whole debate but, as communicated, i have to leave before the end due to long-standing commitments which i could not alter after parliament’s change to the agenda, but my colleague mrs grybauskaitė will take over and stay on in the debate.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). one of the consequences of this is that all the states in a large part of south asia were merged into one huge british colonial empire. in part, it was directly administered by colonial officials, but in part it was also indirectly administered. there, heirs to traditional rulers who had submitted to colonial supremacy ruled. in 1947 the choice of the future of the former states ruled by these princes was left to the preference of these princes themselves. they could join one of the two new states that became independent that year, dividing the colonial empire: there was a big secular india and a small muslim pakistan, which at that time also included bangladesh. restoration of independence of the former states was ruled out and a referendum on the choice between india and pakistan was not held. in most areas this has not created insurmountable problems. because the preference of the prince and most of the inhabitants coincided. in kashmir, that was not the case. the people would probably have chosen pakistan and the prince would have chosen india. this explains the problems of the last 60 years. india is the largest democracy in the world, but that democracy is seriously damaged by the fact that a large part of kashmir is part of india. without the support of the majority of the population, kashmir can only be held by the indian army and police. that is not the way democracy works in the country. india has great advantages as a secular democracy, which distinguishes it favorably from pakistan, where religious fanatics and military men have traditionally had far too much influence. the benefits of india are not being felt by the people of kashmir. in the contacts between the european union and india, we must not ignore this problem, but call for attention to it. i missed that in the rapporteur's original text. it was very much focused on three elements: the european union is also committed to the restoration of peace and stability in the region, the strengthening of relations between the european union and india and the development of better understanding between the leaders of india and pakistan through increased trade and transport. the people of kashmir, on the other hand, played no part. the longstanding desire for a referendum on the future and the international support for it were emphatically ignored. the final result now looks more balanced.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-kashmir week in early june. given the human rights abuses in the area, this is an important initiative. we need help on both sides of the line of control. just think of the actions of militant groups both in the indian state of jammu and kashmir and in the pakistani part of azad kashmir. it is necessary that european aid be provided to all the victims inside kashmir. but humanitarian aid does not mean political interference. the united nations found that early in may, this month, relief operations were still difficult in the area. 83 employees had to be evacuated. local groups that had not delayed reconstruction projects would have turned the population against the united nations, a un spokesman said. the rapporteur also rightly points out that the european union has not been asked to act as an external mediator in the kashmir conflict. the position of saarc in the report, however, is totally contrary to this view. the eu must not lose sight of the value of international intervention, assistance and mediation. it is an omission that this value is so poorly recognised in this report. how do you intend to help all the kashmiris and the asian regional partners?
president. - my group supports the commission in this dispute with the polish government. the european union has taken an essential step towards the sustainable development of our continent with its environmental directives, such as the habitats directive and the birds directive. the guidelines have been a great success. the areas where they apply are often included in natura 2000. and this european network of protected natural areas of the member states is at the heart of eu environmental policy and for the conservation and restoration of biodiversity. it will greatly enhance the protection of nature and the environment. that sometimes goes against local and national pressures. politicians easily succumb to the pressure of short-term economic interests, rather than showing courage for a clean environment for future generations. of course, the via baltica is of great economic importance. no one will deny that. the opening up of northern and eastern europe, the linking of the baltic states to western europe: it is essential. the growth of prosperity and well-being in poland is in the interest of all europe. that is why billions of euros from the structural funds are being invested in the country and everyone understands that the people of the town of augustov want the dangerous, noisy traffic jams of lorries to be removed quickly. there's gonna have to be a detour around the city center. but at what cost? the rospuda valley is a unique area, a special protection area under the birds directive and, moreover, the area should be covered by the habitats directive because of its exceptional value. poland has an enormous wealth of nature, with landscapes of extraordinary beauty. this wealth is also crucial for poland's economic future. in the netherlands we had a similar situation not so long ago, with the construction - which has been stopped - of a new motorway through a section of the naardermeer. the naardermeer is the oldest nature reserve in our country. it's covered by the european bird directive. the situation is very similar to this polish nature reserve on the via baltica. the commission has rightly chosen to warn the polish government against the construction of this section of motorway. as a european member state, poland has an obligation to protect the rospuda valley. the polish government has proposed measures to compensate for the destruction of part of the natural area, but this compensation is not sufficient. the investigation of possible alternative routes has been incomplete. there are other routes that could be considered that would prevent irreparable damage to the area. the european parliament's committee on petitions will send a fact-finding mission in mid-june to investigate the complaints of polish citizens against the destruction of the valley. we'll hear all sides, we'll weigh all arguments, but one thing comes first: the via baltica should not affect one of europe's most beautiful natural areas. and the construction of this road must not be contrary to european environmental laws, which poland has also signed. the pact is the servant. the european union is not a party to the treaties.
president, most of the member states of the european union that joined in 2004 and 2007 have a well-developed rail network. unfortunately, the railway network has shrunk over the last 15 years and there have been cuts in maintenance. moreover, the old railway companies often do not receive the compensation from the state for their operating deficits that they had previously thought they could count on. this experience discourages new firms from participating in tendering procedures. this is likely to lead to a decline in the use of the rail network and the obsolescence of rolling stock. the great advantage these countries had over western europe in rail transport is thus lost. this also puts their environment at risk. less rail doesn't mean less traffic. to cope with this traffic, all attention is now being directed to investments in motorways. these roads were there 15 years ago, but then they were limited to the busiest routes, especially around the big cities. such roads are now being added at a rapid pace. in order to reduce costs, the interests of nature and the countryside are often not sufficiently taken into account. the shortest possible route through areas considered empty is preferred and there is no money for detours, tunnels or game viaducts. poland is not the first or the only country to have to deal with this. the same problem existed years ago in the czech republic on the prague-dresden route and in bulgaria on the sofia-thessaloniki route. the way in which valuable natural areas are being managed there is attracting attention not only at home but also abroad. international nature and environmental organizations are drawing attention to it. they also point out that the european union is becoming partly responsible for the destruction of nature if it co-finances such bad projects. i have been urging for many years that in such cases we should refuse any responsibility. on 2 july 2002, in reply to my written questions, commissioner wallström stated that poland should change its plans for the via baltica. i would remind you that the original plan provided for the via baltica to go beyond this vulnerable area, but that those plans were later revised to better serve other cities. the return to the original plan, which was developed long ago, must be the aim of the action of the european union.
it is a good thing that despite the increase in prosperity and the urbanisation that accompanies it, we still have valuable natural areas within the borders of the european union. these are part of the natura 2000 network. this network ensures that nature in the european union is given a protected status, which is very important. for example, it contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity. we have just this week approved the proposal put forward by mr adamou. it is a fight for the conservation of biodiversity. natura 2000 status also ensures that the natural areas remain guaranteed for our descendants. at least, it should be. not every government seems to realize this, as we have seen over the past year. the polish government wants to build the new road, the via baltica, through the natura 2000 area of the rospuda valley. i myself was with a delegation from the environment committee in the rospuda valley and saw firsthand how unique and valuable this polish natural area is. it is absolutely incomprehensible to me that the polish minister for the environment should be the one to support this project when there are good alternatives available. he should be the one to see the disastrous effects of this project. to compensate for the construction of the road, a million trees were to be planted north of the area. but this also has adverse effects on nature. i know that the issue is very sensitive in poland. the road safety aspect requires that the via baltica be built quickly, but in a well-designed way with the least possible negative impact on the environment. i am glad that the commission has issued warnings to the polish government and that it has taken the matter to the european court of justice when the polish government did not comply with its demands. the court's ruling on 18 april ordering the polish government to stop the compensatory measures immediately is hopefully a signal for the future. a signal that cannot be easily diverted by member states to valuable natural areas.
author. syria is a recurring item on our agenda. the european union is keen to establish good and intensive relations with that country in the framework of its neighbourhood policy with the mediterranean countries. stability in syria is also appreciated because of the chaos in neighbouring iraq. at the same time, syria is a dictatorship that does not allow internal opposition. it is also an unpleasant country for christians and kurds, to say the least. it is not a theocratic state that is positive towards muslim fundamentalism, but it does regard the theocratic dictatorship in iran as an ally. in lebanon, the country supports lebanese and palestinian muslim fundamentalists as long as they can contribute to syria's greater control over that small neighboring country. lebanon is seen as an area unjustly separated from syria by european intervention. the conflict with israel is being carefully cultivated because the tensions it creates could contribute to the syrians considering the survival of the regime the lesser of two evils. there's no sign of improvement. both an aggressive attitude towards syria and the involvement of this regime in friendly relations are counterproductive. only support for syrian refugees and syrian oppositionists in prison and exile can help make things better in the long run. my final point, mr president: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the question of whether this very large area with its very different peoples should become independent as one state was already being discussed when the present state of sudan was still known as anglo-egyptian sudan. a united state would be the state of the arab population in the north, east and centre. the black muslim population in the west and the black christian and animist population in the south would be hard put on an equal footing. these then much less developed areas were far from the sea and received little international attention. in the end, no one took them into account. after years of war, a compromise seems to have been reached for the non-islamic south, which has been granted self-government and representation in the central government. as we know, that does not apply to western darfur. the fundamentalist attitude is rampant in the predominantly arab population, especially in the administrative authorities and the judiciary. death sentences for adultery and even the use of stoning are now the worst of these. the resolution rightly draws attention to international agreements and the need to abolish the death penalty. we must continue to pay attention to this, because a terrible situation is developing in sudan.
author. mr president, the appointment of the head of the world bank should not be the prerogative of the leader of the state with the largest share of the stock. that has been the norm so far. the candidate on behalf of the united states did not need to be compared with other candidates and there was no need to weigh candidates. and who the candidate of the united states is is decided by one man. wolfowitz was not the choice of the most involved in the world bank, but only that of the american president bush. for bush he was a loyal ally, for others a wreckage maker who is always trying in vain to push through a wrong policy. he was extremely controversial when he joined the world bank and he is even more controversial now that he is leaving. the promotion of his girlfriend was not an accidental mistake, but the reason to put an end to his self-serving and unacceptable way of working. in choosing his successor, such mistakes must not be repeated. a transparent appointment procedure with public hearings for candidates is badly needed.
mr president, i would like to address a very brief request to you as president of this house. i should like you to ask the mayor of moscow, mr luzhkov, for clarification on the treatment of two meps – mr cappato and myself; a member of the german bundestag, mr volker beck, and a member of the italian parliament, ms vladimir luxuria, on 27 may. on the occasion of a peaceful action for equal rights for gay people, we wanted to hand over a letter to the mayor of moscow signed by nearly 50 members of this house. mr cappato, mr beck and an alde group official were violently attacked by hooligans and then arrested by the russian police. two of the russian activists who were arrested are here today – mr nikolaj aleksejev and mr nikolaj khramov. the police equally failed to protect ms luxuria and myself from an angry crowd and the police stood by watching as other activists were beaten up by thugs, skinheads and even priests. as members of parliament not engaged in any illegal activity, we would expect the russian authorities to protect us against violent criminals, and certainly not to arrest us on dubious grounds. freedom of assembly is a basic human right that must be observed by russia as well, being a member of the council of europe and present at the g8 summit today. mr president, i trust you will ask mr luzhkov and mr putin for an explanation on the way that members of this house were treated. (applause)
the report by mr barón crespo and mr brok is characterized by great internal tension and ambiguity. on the one hand, the rapporteurs acknowledge - albeit with the greatest possible reluctance - the need to amend the constitution. i am therefore pleased to see that even the european parliament is becoming aware of this reality. on the other hand, i am disappointed to note that paragraph 6 - as mr wurtz has already said - shows how great, or rather how little, their real willingness to amend the constitution is: the content of the constitution cannot be changed, only the packaging. i readily admit that it is the members of the council (including my own prime minister) who give rise to the idea that cosmetic amendment of the constitution would be acceptable. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the council is giving increasing signals that it will indeed discuss the content. if the european parliament really wants to contribute to a successful igc, as the rapporteurs have pointed out in their report on several occasions, it must be prepared to compromise on the content, otherwise the european parliament will only play a marginal role in the next igc. that is a scenario which will not appeal to me or to the two rapporteurs.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their efforts. the report is a two-sided report. it is strongly in favour of the core elements of the constitutional treaty, but it also takes account of developments in recent years, although it could perhaps have been more generous. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of europe. it is very important that this parliament too should take account of this criticism. but fortunately, there is now a growing support in europe for the idea that things should be different. there is no constitution. the report can count on our support, although we have problems with some passages. we support the report because it defends the main points of the constitutional treaty. but this report also opens the door to change - although some members here deny this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that role must be balanced with respect for the role of this parliament. there is no such thing as a europe on our own terms. we have to come together and under the leadership of a woman, we have to do it. i wish angela merkel, but also our own hans-gert poettering and commission president barosso every success and we must all support them in bringing this to a good solution.
the european union must be able to take action in the face of the challenges of the 21st century. the dutch no in 2005 was not a no to europe: 72% of the dutch think that european cooperation is a good thing. it would therefore be a disaster for the netherlands if we were to continue to be stuck in a no without an alternative, as the sp is threatening to do. that is why i have put forward my five-point plan for a new treaty to justify the dutch 'no' and to get the majority of the dutch back on the 'yes' side. one: the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament, and that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. two , you 're not . a more social europe. include a social clause which states that public and semi-public services are not subordinated to the market but can be arranged according to the wishes of the national member states and regions. make the charter of fundamental rights binding on the people. three , please . the european union is committed to a europe of the people and the regions through greater decentralisation and strengthened subsidiarity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. give european citizens the right to petition. fourth . the commission is also proposing to include in the new treaty stricter accession criteria to prevent fraud. the european parliament must be the first to decide on any further enlargement. five , please . the new treaty will be considerably shorter by incorporating all the simplifications by reference, which will save 322 articles. and let it be a treaty indeed, because the constitution gave the dutch the idea that they were losing their own constitution. in this way the netherlands can regain its place at the forefront of europe. that's where we belong, for our own sake and for our own ideals.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. the first timid steps have been taken. however, in 2007 there is still a lot of noise about who is responsible for rescuing drowning people, legally or illegally, and when. it is astonishing that moral and legal duty is not apparently taken as seriously by everyone. of course, as martine roure has just said, malta is not having an easy time dealing with the large influx of illegal immigrants. no one will deny that. the european union must therefore act quickly to achieve the much-desired and much-talked-about solidarity. the rapid introduction of a burden-sharing mechanism therefore seems appropriate. but this fact in no way justifies the way malta feels it should deal with its moral and legal obligation. we are talking about an eu member state and that makes us as a union responsible. while malta and libya cannot agree on the exact location of the drowning, 27 people are hanging from a fishing net for three days. unfortunately, this example is not stand alone. - that is absurd. as we know, libya is not really the paradise of human rights or humanistic views, far from it. it is a grave scandal that we as a union are threatening to adopt a similar attitude towards these drowning people. yesterday i found in my minutes for the transport committee a study on the status of illegal migrants at sea. the actions proposed in this study should be implemented as a matter of priority. commissioner frattini, you will have to join forces with commissioner barrot. money alone is not the answer. you know very well that the council is the key when it comes to the conditions for the return of illegal immigrants. at the same time, and above all, let it be clear that no one, no one, can and must hide behind so-called legal ambiguities in, for example, the international law of the sea. where there is a political will, there is a way. i would like to conclude by saying to the council: berlin declarations, honourable council presidents, you may record them until you weigh an ounce. european values are at the heart of this. but if nothing is done about it in practice, then the reality is quite different and you, as president of the council, are putting the credibility of the european union on the line. put to work the fine words you so love to proclaim, as you did just now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do what you promised us. with all due respect, a debate next week is great, but it's really not good enough. the problem is not new. action is necessary and immediate.
president, i am very pleased that the german presidency has made data protection in the third pillar one of its priorities. however, i am less pleased if i look at the various proposals that have been circulated. i would urge the council to take on board not only the recommendations of the european parliament, but also the criticisms and concerns expressed by the european data protection supervisor. first of all, i am a bit mystified by the fact that we still seem to have 27 different regimes, which creates a lot of uncertainty for citizens and businesses. secondly, there are so many vague and open definitions, for example on purpose limitation; there are so many exceptions to citizens’ rights and to safeguards, that in the end it seems that this proposal will undermine the position of citizens rather than strengthen it. to give an example, article 7 on the exchange of sensitive data such as political preference, medical data or data on sex life are supposed to be exchanged ‘only when strictly necessary and with adequate safeguards’. what does that mean? who is to define what is strictly necessary? what are the criteria? what are the adequate safeguards? that is dangerously open. and a final question to which we have never had a straight answer: we know that the council and the commission are having talks with the us on a transatlantic regime for data protection. that in itself is a good thing, but right up to now and despite repeated questions, it is not clear to me what the basis is for those talks. if the basis is the low standards in your proposal for eu data protection in the third pillar, then i am very concerned about the rights of european citizens in our dealings with the us.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, on behalf of the alde group, first of all, we would like to thank the rapporteur. i admire her for finding a way through the many amendments that have been tabled. we in the alde group can broadly support the result and that means we can broadly support the commission's proposals. strengthening producer organizations is a good thing. the market for horticultural products is increasingly dominated by large supermarkets and other trade organizations and it is necessary for producers to unite to counterbalance this. the majority of the alde group disagrees with the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture on the already much-debated crisis fund and crisis management in general. we think the commission's proposals are better. first of all, i wouldn't know where the money was supposed to come from either. but even in the long term it is impossible to assume that any government could be responsible for crisis management. there will always be a contribution from the public authorities - that is foreseen - but the main responsibility will have to lie with the producers. if we encourage crisis management through the producer organisation, this will also attract more members and at the same time it may also mean that the power of producer organisations vis-à-vis traders and supermarkets will be strengthened. so on that point we shall vote differently from what the committee on agriculture has proposed. i would like to make another point about a quality policy. the commissioner knows that this is a subject which is very close to my heart. i was not entirely optimistic about this after the last conference, but i am encouraged by the fact that an amendment by the alde group in the committee on agriculture on the need for a quality label for horticultural products was unanimously adopted by all the parties. that's pretty unique. so perhaps with the support of the committee on agriculture the commissioner can think again about a quality policy for certain agricultural products, because we still think it is necessary. i do not know what the latest developments are in the field of school fruit, but we found the commissioner's thoughts on this point sympathetic.
mr president, of course all the attention today is on the future of the constitutional process, but i would like to talk about something else. we are also impressed by the initiatives taken by the presidency, particularly in relation to central asia. i think it is good that the european union is also shifting its attention to that part of asia which is very close to europe and also to the new neighbours of the european union. it has been a white spot on our map and i think it is important to support the initiatives of the presidency on that point. developments in that region are of great importance to the european union, whether in terms of energy policy or stability in the countries concerned, also in connection with our own presence in afghanistan. where that region is going is not entirely clear. we are dealing with different countries with different processes. in order to get a first-hand impression of the situation there, we went to kazakhstan last week with a small delegation from our group to take a firsthand look at developments in the region. when you go there, you will find that there is a great deal of interest in the european union and that relations, particularly in the economic field, between a country like kazakhstan and the european union are developing rapidly. the european union is by far the most important trading partner of a country like kazakhstan. you will note that there is an interest in cooperation with the european union because these countries are caught between china and russia and have an interest in a third powerful partner to guarantee the balance and independence of the region. it is also important to note that this is not just about energy and energy cooperation. there are opportunities there, although we must be careful given that russia has recently achieved some important successes through new agreements with turkmenistan, kazakhstan and uzbekistan. in the longer term, however, i think there is still a lot of scope for energy cooperation with a country like kazakhstan. concluding remark: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european union should distinguish between countries like kazakhstan, where positive influence is possible, and a country like turkmenistan and in particular uzbekistan, which have a regime with which we believe there is little room for cooperation. one final note: you'll find that russian influence in that region is still strong. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. there too, cooperation must be sought, including in the energy sector. we will also need russia in developing further energy relations with the central asian region. but again: i would like to congratulate the presidency on this new initiative.
the german presidency is right to listen to the differences of opinion that have been expressed in europe on the constitution. i hope, however, that this does not mean that the backsliders will be taking the lead instead of the forwards. i hope that does not mean that we are giving in to paralysis, but that we are choosing progress. i hope that doesn't mean we're going to be guided by fear, but that we're going to be guided by ambition. i have heard people say that the constitution was too ambitious. but how can you be that ambitious when you look at the challenges we face in the 21st century? and if we are ambitious, it doesn't mean we aspire to a superstate. i wish we could stop using that terminology. the term superstate is a load of crap. there's talk of a mini-treaty. what's a mini-covenant for? for a small europe? for a political midget? i hope that you will try to keep the charter of fundamental rights in it. fundamental rights are not a purely legal issue, but the omission of the charter is also a political signal, even if fundamental rights become legally enforceable. i hope that no new paralysing vetoes will be introduced before national parliaments. finally, it is often said that we listen to what the citizens have to say, especially in the netherlands and france - the netherlands, my own country. one of the things that the dutch people have said is that they are tired of decisions being made behind their backs and over their heads behind closed doors. is it not strange that we are choosing to hold an igc behind closed doors? for confessional work? for bilateral negotiations? i hope that the presidency will have the courage to do something revolutionary and the courage to propose that the next igc be held in public.
mr president, last week seven people, including a dutchman, mr dick nicolaas, and a frenchman, mr serge atlaoui, were sentenced to death in jakarta for the manufacture of xtc and methamphetamine. the european union has already called on jakarta to stop issuing death sentences and to refrain from carrying out executions. it shows, of course, that involvement in drug trafficking is a big deal. you just don't want to start that. but the death penalty is in no way justifiable, and that is why the european union has been advocating it for years. mr president, various statistics indicate that things are moving in the right direction. the number of executions worldwide has fallen from 2,148 in 2005 to 1,591 last year. but it is estimated that there are still 20,000 people on death row worldwide. it is therefore of the utmost importance that europe continues to pull the cart and use all the means at its disposal to bring more countries over the moratorium line. this is particularly true in south east asia, where indonesia suspended the moratorium on the death penalty in 2004, but the example of the philippines, which recently abolished the death penalty, deserves to be followed, especially there.
president. - the debate on the schnellhardt report is dominated by the debate on vodka. that is a pity, because it is a report which in many ways says so many other things which are terribly important for europe and for this industry in europe. i would therefore like to deal first with some of the other points. the directive is, of course, primarily concerned with the quality of the european beverage industry. it also says something about europe, because wherever you go in the world, you see european spirits, european spirits, in all kinds of forms for sale and with a recognition of the quality that we produce in europe. this is important in a situation where not everything that is said about the european union is always positive. this is something that europe is very different from. the rapporteur has done just that, by strengthening this very element. in fact, in his original report he was even more concerned than in the compromise which was finally reached with the council. i think that's a formidable achievement and i think that's something we should hold on to. distilled is a craft, a truly old-fashioned craft. i have recently visited some gin distilleries in my own country. it's a craft, it's an art to make these products in a good way and in a way that keeps the quality constant. that is without doubt the most important point of this report. we must not simply add sugar or flavourings, but we must define these drinks clearly, even very strictly, even at the request of industry. this also gives consumers good information about the product. they know what they are buying and they can be sure that it is of good quality. the directive also enables the european beverage industry to remain competitive internationally thanks to this quality. it also says something about europe, and it does say something about the regional attachment to many of these kinds of drinks. in this respect, this directive is almost a microcosm of the european union, it shows the diversity of the european union and how we can all be european together, precisely in that diversity. that is also very important to me. now, a word about the vodka. the rapporteur has tried to reach a compromise on this point, which i myself wholeheartedly supported in the debate. i think he has made a courageous attempt to try to strike a fair compromise between the old vodka industry in the european union, which existed at the time the definition was made - before sweden, finland, poland and all the other countries had joined the union - and those newer member states, and i think he has done a reasonable thing. my group is in favour of a much stricter definition of vodka, and i must say that it is doing so with good reason. i therefore think it is good that this is on the table, so that it is part of the discussion. firstly, this consumer information: my group believes that every consumer should be able to accept that vodka is made from potatoes or from cereals, that is the essence, perhaps from sugar beet. the consumer must be able to buy it from the start, in accordance with the wishes of the majority of my group. but it goes beyond that. it's not just about the product. there is also a debate about originality and about the identity of the countries where it is made. because what would we have done if this discussion with these countries had been played out before? what if we had said: for the purpose of consumer information, you may also place on the market cognac made from potatoes or whiskey made from grapes. no, of course we would never have done that and my group wants us to be consistent on the vodka issue as well. of course there's something to that. i would have liked to have had agreement at first reading, and i am glad that this argument is now on the table, and i support my group's amendment in that respect.
i would like to congratulate mr schnellhardt on the compromise he has presented. it took a while, but with this result, there's a good chance of a first-reading agreement. i am glad that the point i raised in the debate in the committee on the environment has been accepted. it concerns the vague passage of the impression that a certain age is mentioned on the label. i am glad that that passage has now been deleted, because that is how the survival of the young and old dutch genever is guaranteed. the designation of 'genever' refers to the method of preparation of the drink and not to its age. i would like to make a brief comment on the vodka. as a dutchman, i am not used to drinking vodka very often, but i do sympathize with my eastern european colleagues. i have therefore considered supporting the definition of vodka, which would allow only potatoes, cereals and sugar beet to be used as raw materials. i shall give this matter some serious thought after the rapporteur has called for it.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. madam president, listening to the rapporteur and also to mrs kroes, the commissioner, i must say that i am a little bit in between. i share the rapporteur's concerns, but i also welcome the commissioner's pragmatism, because it is true that economic relations between the eu and russia are flourishing. as i said, the eu is russia's most important trading partner and trade is growing, as is investment. last weekend's st petersburg economic forum was a good deal and reportedly showed little of the chill that dominated the eu-russia summit in may. but we cannot just dissociate politics from economics, and on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs i have looked particularly at the political dimension of trade and economic relations between the european union and russia. i wanted to emphasize the political significance of economic relations. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. but that is not going to happen by itself. energy is perhaps the most important example. on the one hand, it is one of the main pillars of the special political bond between the european union and russia, but at the same time the current difficulties indicate that a number of agreements are urgently needed. in this context, we support russia's accession to the world trade organisation. it would make a particularly important contribution to the transparency of russian market rules and would greatly improve the investment climate. at the same time, it would bind russia to a set of global rules, reducing the risk of trade policy being used as a political weapon. the russians themselves do realise that they have an interest in good trade relations with the european union. economic relations provide a stable basis for political relations and there is still enormous potential for growth. this will also help russia to realise that it will also have to find common ground in europe on the political level. not only in trade, but also in human rights, democracy and the latent conflicts between our neighbours. it is absolutely necessary to find a balance here. the eu should enshrine these agreements in an improved agreement that will replace the current partnership and cooperation agreement. this is another example of the close relationship between economics and politics. finally, the negotiations on this subject are stalled by a trade conflict which is translating politically into a conflict between the european union and russia. in short, we are in favour of a pragmatic approach, but the political cannot be separated from the economic, even when it comes to trade relations.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. russia is - as the rapporteur has already said - one of our most important trading partners and she has shown this with figures. however, there is also a lot of potential in our relations with russia. in fact, if you look at trade relations, there's a paradox: the eu has a number of member states with good bilateral relations, but eu-russia relations need to be improved. both partners must play a role in this. the member states must therefore find a common response to the challenges. that is why, mr president, the negotiations on a new partnership agreement must begin as soon as possible. a new treaty based on the experience of the last decade and also shaping a new dialogue for the years to come. there are a number of important elements that should be there: reciprocity and transparency. president putin said two weeks ago at the st. petersburg economic forum: economic partners can feel a sense of security only when they have reliable and predictable relations. yes, mr president, but our entrepreneurs also want to be able to do business in a clear and legal framework. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. i am therefore very interested - and perhaps the commissioner can say something about this - in the new law on foreign investment. mr president, enhanced economic cooperation can also contribute to a more diversified economic development in russia itself. president, then the wto. i'm glad we did that. it's the only way to deal with counterfeiting, too. everything has been said about energy, so that's why i'm stopping now. i would just like to express my appreciation to mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, who has done an excellent job with her colleagues.
the commission's analysis of the problems of economic and commercial relations with russia is fair. however, this report does not provide a satisfactory answer to the question of how europe should respond to the growing politicisation of the russian economy. in the absence of a clear answer, russia continues to refer to bilateral relations with individual member states. the enthusiasm with which these member states are cooperating betrays not only their inability to achieve a single european policy, but also their political unwillingness to do so. the report criticises russia's lack of anticipation of wto rules. in that light, i am surprised that paragraph 15 already mentions a possible free trade agreement. i believe that after russia's accession to the wto a period of consolidation should be observed in order to analyse the consequences of this accession. the commission is right to devote its efforts to such an analysis rather than considering a free trade agreement now.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, who is absent, for having drafted an excellent report which i believe has received broad support in our committee. i also commend the work of mrs kroes, because mrs berès has just said very rightly that competition policy is not an end in itself, and i think that the european commission has, under mrs kroes, taken a new pragmatic approach, which we greatly appreciate. it is sometimes forgotten, but competition rules are not there to bully companies or to annoy national governments; competition rules exist to ensure that everyone can operate under the same rules and with the same opportunities in the internal market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we must not compete with each other, we must ensure that we have a well-functioning internal market. i too am a strong supporter of sectoral inquiries and when it comes to energy policy you have the support of this parliament. but i'd like to make a note. at the moment, everyone is pushing from the member states to prepare for the summit next weekend, and there too, energy policy is one of the new spearheads on the agenda. one of the few positive points in the whole discussion. at the same time, i see that while the leaders of national governments say 'we must have a common energy policy', they are not prepared to give up their protection of the national champions. perhaps they should put into practice what they profess with their mouths. as regards state aid: as rapporteur on state aid for public services and innovation, we have had the opportunity to discuss this before. i am very curious to see whether there is already a first evaluation of the impact of these exemption regulations and whether there is more generally an evaluation of the effectiveness, or not, of state aid. finally, as regards the matching clause. we've been over that, too. of course, it is a problem when generous state aid is made available outside the european union. at the same time, i would prefer to strengthen european competitiveness by other means. i think it is very inappropriate to start giving very generous state aid, subsidies, when we have no other measures in place such as patents, flexibility of the labour market, opening up the market for services and other such things; we cannot correct these kinds of mistakes with state aid.
i would like to thank mrs svensson for her commitment and work. we in the alde group support this compromise. i am very surprised that it has taken so long for us to reach this compromise with the council and the commission, because as a parliamentary representative we have had to do a lot of work to reach this compromise. i am glad that we are finally taking a position of exception compatible with the united states and australia. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the fact that the commission is not prepared to take action on the matter. i want to join with what mrs lucas said: when will there be a ban on sealskin? i want to go a little bit deeper into that. because i think there are many more things that we as a civilized world should be concerned about when it comes to animals. i do not want to go into the substance of this at this stage, but i think there is a great deal to be said on this and i think the commissioner may have ideas on this in future proposals. mr president, it will be at the expense of a number of dutch expressions, such as finding the dog in the pot or the cat in the bag. this means that we want to protect the pets that we care about and we cannot have our children confronted with parts of their pets in their toys. finally, mr president, i would like to stress that the alde group supports the compromise proposal as a whole. we in the alde group have no problem with that. i would like to shed some light on the other side of the coin. in china, the dog in the pot is a common sight, since it is eaten there. the fur is then a residual product with economic value for them; this prohibition will significantly reduce the economic value of the skin. i would also like to point out that the regular consumption of pork and beef means that the use of bovine and porcine hides should also be banned. perhaps a reason to think about this and see what we are going to do about it in the future.
the so-called palestinian unity government of fatah and hamas collapsed in blood last week. the house is therefore faced with two palestinian governments which deny each other's right to exist. the council and the commission have now made a clear choice for the crisis cabinet of salam fayyad in the west bank. i would like to support this position in its entirety, because unlike the fatah movement led by mahmoud abbas, the hamas leadership inside and outside the gaza strip persists in denying israel's right to exist. hamas opposes a two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict on purely religious grounds. the question mr schulz has to look into again is the religious basis of hamas. the fact that this destructive attitude of hamas is being actively encouraged by the islamic republic of iran and syria is reasonable in view of the permanent regional destabilisation policy of damascus and tehran. on the other hand, i find it quite astonishing that colleagues or even groups in this house want to trust and accept hamas, which is the archenemy of the state of israel, as an equal partner in the dialogue. to this day, in fact. let us not allow the politically-sound two-state solution to become unbelievable lip service in this house. in the meantime, i warmly wish the palestinian people a selfless leadership that demonstrates a strong internal governance and a sincere external modus vivendi with israel. the emergence of the fayyad emergency cabinet provides that opportunity. i am counting on the helpful, encouraging and controlling hands of all the european institutions to make this happen.
in writing. as a member of the committee of inquiry, i have dealt in particular with the quality aspects of regulation. the committee of inquiry found that the commission, while looking at formal transposition, did not pay sufficient attention to implementation. is legislation transposed correctly and is it transposed in such a way that its application is consistent with the objective of european legislation? we as members of the european parliament must also be much more aware of what happens in the member states with legislation adopted in this parliament. i think that the rapporteur responsible should keep an eye on what happens next in the member states. the rapporteur must ring the bell when things go wrong and activate the commission where necessary. the national parliaments should also be involved. there is a serious lack of structured cooperation between member states in the field of national supervisory authorities. this is not only the case in financial market supervision, but also in many other areas. the number of independent supervisors in the member states is increasing. the big question is who's watching over these regulators. and who oversees the quality of cross-border cooperation between the supervisors? is there not a very important role for the european commission in this?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0210/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0203 - c4-0210/97). they are ambitious plans to reduce world poverty by 2015. at the end of this month we will be halfway through, but unfortunately we are still far from halfway through in achieving those objectives. the development agenda is lagging far behind. there are still too many people dying of hunger, too many children without access to education, too many women disadvantaged and too many victims of aids, malaria and tuberculosis. i could go on like this for a while, unfortunately. it is absolutely essential that the quality and quantity of aid be improved and much depends on the political will in the countries. of course, all countries must honour their pledge to set aside 0.7% of their gross national product for development aid. but it's not just about money. the main issues are better and more effective aid and better coordination of aid. phantom aid, where money is mainly spent on consultants, evaluation reports and studies, should be reduced. i would also like to raise a number of points on behalf of our group. first of all, i would like to stress the importance of transparency in financial flows. it should be clear where the money is going. secondly, debt relief. debt is a big problem for many countries. however, debt relief cannot and should not be a reward for government mismanagement. therefore, debt relief can only be granted under strict conditions such as good governance and transparency. there must be a guarantee that the funds released are actually spent on poverty reduction. thirdly, i would like to stress the importance of trade. trade and the opening up of markets can be a great engine for economic growth under certain conditions. countries must be able to count on our support in this. as far as intellectual property rights are concerned, i would like to say: let's not throw the baby out with the bath water. it must remain attractive for industry to continue to carry out research into poverty eradication. a certain degree of protection of intellectual property rights is necessary for this. finally, sexual and reproductive health. many women in developing countries face high risks, even life-threatening risks, during and after pregnancy. a lot of women die from it unnecessarily. help in this is extremely urgent. that is why we are in favour of more aid to these women.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97). the socialist group is very disappointed in this. in 2000, 191 world leaders committed themselves to the millennium declaration to end extreme poverty worldwide by 2015 and to improve the health and well-being of the poorest groups. right now, one in five of the world's citizens lack access to basic social services like education and clean drinking water. in exactly two and a half weeks, we will be halfway to the mdg deadline. the excellent report by glenys kinnock makes the point. we fully support the report. the last seven and a half years have seen intensive work towards these objectives. a number of major successes have been achieved. in asia in particular, there has been a sharp fall in poverty. the number of people living on less than a dollar a day has fallen by more than a quarter of a billion since 1990. in latin america too, a clear upward trend is being observed. in both regions, the number of malnourished children has fallen dramatically. infant mortality has been reduced by many percent. hundreds of thousands of people in latin america and asia have been lifted out of poverty. that is something that these regions and the whole world can be proud of. what's still going wrong in asia and latin america is the huge disparities between the rich and the poor. we need to work together on strategies for a fairer distribution of natural resources, of land, fairer taxes, less corruption and good governance. despite all the growth and progress, too many people still lack basic social services. european aid programmes through civil society must address this. in one continent, the mdgs have been moving backwards rather than forwards in recent years. africa, despite individual achievements, despite the efforts of many, is going downhill. it seems that almost none of these millennium development goals will be achieved in time. three-quarters of the people are suffering from aids/hiv in sub-saharan africa. the number of hungry people in this region has increased by many tens of millions. how can we bring about a turning point in the groups that are doing well? how can we help african entrepreneurs, women's cooperatives, microfinance banks to turn the tide? firstly, by focusing not only on the victims but also on the successes, including, for example, the end of wars such as in mozambique. so also top african diplomats like kofi annan, fashion houses from abuja, wine growers from south africa, pilots from ghana, top soccer players from across africa, female ict entrepreneurs. they're going to change africa. i want to partner with them. we must direct our european aid to them. they should be given trade advantages instead of being bothered with our junk. it's time for a new beginning. a turning point up the mountain. because their quality and national resources and our sincere cooperation in aid and trade can bring africa back to life. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. indeed, commissioner, the mdg contracts are a good line to follow. that means the g8, which is putting great tasks to real limits. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this. african companies must also be able to supply value-added products to our market. if gsp plus can help, it must be done. let's put together an african team of good players, winning players and let's give the african team the opportunity to win that football match in the second half of the 2015 mdg match. that's good for africa, that's good for the world.
it is good that progress in some regions has been discussed here today, but as previous speakers, including mr van den berg, have said, the situation in black africa is still dramatic. there is a geographical distinction to be made. but there is also a distinction to be made on the basis of sex. president bush is now convinced that more must be done to combat aids. aids affects both men and women. i cannot help feeling that this is an important condition for putting money on the table. only women die from maternal death. it is by definition. there is no improvement in sexual and reproductive rights. it seems that for many a woman's life is less important. in sub-saharan africa, 1 woman in 16 dies as a result of pregnancy, such as maternal death or unsafe abortion. sri lanka shows that investments can actually save women's lives. mr szymánski, it really takes more than just water and medicine. women should be able to decide for themselves whether they want to get pregnant. difficult choices, like abortion, should be made individually and not as easily and generically as we do here from our lazy seats. commissioner, you are right that the eu is a major donor and plays an important role in this. but eu countries have not yet fulfilled their cairo promises either. what dynamic are you going to set in motion for that?
on behalf of the ppe-de group, i would like to congratulate mr cornillet on his report on the activities of the acp-ep joint parliamentary assembly in 2006. it was another fruitful year. the main subjects discussed were energy, tourism, water in the acp countries, the promotion of peace and security, problems of fisheries in the countries and, of course, the epas, the new trade agreements. the formula of this parliamentary delegation, mr president, remains special and unique. it is important that 77 meps and 77 acp parliamentarians - one from each acp country - meet a few times a year to discuss development policy. the preparation, which is a co-production between european and acp countries, is also included. it also remains extremely important for our parliamentary work, because we are not only talking about them, but also with them when it comes to implementing the cotonou convention and development policy in general. this is what the europe-africa strategy should have been from the outset. but it was too one-sidedly drawn up from a european perspective. fortunately, a joint strategy of the european union and the african union for the development of africa is now emerging. this one is a priority, and rightly so. poverty is the greatest and most worrying in africa. it is good to see that the joint parliamentary assembly is growing and that the dialogue between the acp countries and the european union is gaining momentum and that it is becoming increasingly possible to discuss sensitive issues such as corruption or worrying situations, such as in the horn of africa and sudan. zimbabwe remains a difficult issue. the situation there is unacceptable and we must do everything possible to protect the position of civilians there and to stop the violation of human rights. next week we meet again, this time in germany, in wiesbaden. i look forward to this meeting and hope that we can have a good dialogue again, including on difficult issues.
the rapporteur. - mr president, to say that this is a difficult dossier is an understatement. we've been working on nine articles for almost two years. european agreements on supplementary pensions are needed. i'll give you three reasons. first of all: the first pillar, statutory pensions, is increasingly under pressure from deforestation and ageing. it is therefore important that second pillar pensions are properly regulated. at present, 1 in 10 workers in europe has a supplementary pension. in the united kingdom and germany, the figure is well over 50%, and in denmark, sweden and the netherlands, as many as 90% of employees are members of a supplementary pension scheme. this is reason enough to encourage member states and also the social partners to take up their responsibilities and start building a system of good old age provision. the second reason, mr president, is that i meet almost daily people who have changed jobs and are then punished for exercising their right to mobility; they have built up a pension, they have paid premiums, but if the capital does not change, it is of no use for the old age provision. this is the problem that this directive seeks to tackle. thirdly: in the context of lisbon, we are saying that we need to encourage further the mobility of workers. we all want to see this principle, but we have problems with its implementation. my aim was and is to come up with legislation that does something, including for workers, that is feasible for member states and the social partners and therefore also offers sufficient opportunities for supplementary pension scheme managers to adapt to it. legislation that only has exceptions or a law that does not apply to all member states and therefore does not enter into force until 2018 is pointless. we have to deal with the problems now before we have to deal with them later. i would like to thank mr ettl and mr cocilovo, the other shadow rapporteurs on social affairs, mrs lulling for the opinion, and also the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs on previous pension dossiers, othmar karas and ieke van den burg. we are united in our efforts to achieve a result and we also take responsibility for this report, the report of the committee on social affairs. we can make progress on this basis without jeopardizing the existing systems, and i say this to the presidency. this directive is also about minimum standards. there is nothing to prevent the social partners from providing more protection in an agreement. i'll get to the point quickly. acquisition the conditions of acquisition set by parliament have implications for some systems. the time needed for adaptation is the additional five years provided for in amendment no 22. the dormant rights: the german presidency has devised the current formula, so we shall vote on a basic principle which the member states can implement in their own way. the transfer: it was very soon clear that that bridge was too far; we didn't let it come back. information to be provided by: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. so, mr president, member states may need more time to adapt their systems. parliament gives them that time. for both acquisition and fair treatment of dormant rights, we give member states until 2013 to adapt their systems together with the social partners. ladies and gentlemen, after two years of almost continuous consultation, it is now time for parliament to define its position. i can still say that the signals i have received, also from the forthcoming portuguese presidency and from my own member state, the netherlands, are absolutely positive, because this report offers many points of reference for the second reading. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). it's not finished today. we will negotiate with the council and we will continue to act as constructively as possible as parliament and as rapporteur to find a solution, because it is really necessary.
i would like to congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on her report. the taking of supplementary pension rights is not a matter of course. if the netherlands - a forerunner - is already considering a veto on new pension legislation in the pension debate, that certainly raises some questions. it is essential that new steps are taken to ensure better coordination of the different pension systems. in addition to coordination, the financial sustainability of different systems is a particular concern. it is clear that not everyone can agree with this report, because in relation to the commission's proposal the rapporteur proposes that no more exceptions should be allowed in the transfer. i do have one more question. if the exemption from article 9 (3) is removed, will this provide an incentive for member states to switch to a capitalised pension system? it should be. the european union, in which people are free to work in different member states, should have an appropriate social security system. the minimum requirement is to take home accumulated pension rights.
president. - i have a few remarks to make. firstly, the german presidency's analysis of why it was so difficult to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion. i think that was missing the fact that exceptions had been made from the start, in particular by your own country, and that this set in motion a process which led to other countries also making exceptions and which eventually led to nothing remaining in the directive. i think that should be mentioned in the analysis. secondly, the role of employers and social partners and of the pension funds themselves. i am also very much in favour of them taking the necessary steps themselves, but as commissioner špidla has already said, they have missed their turn. i do think that if we adopt this directive now without that element of transfer of value, which will be an incentive, they will take it up again themselves and i would like to make that signal sound again very strongly. i was also against article 6, as formulated by the commission, providing an individual right to transfer value, but it has to be regulated, so the field has to be set in motion. the rights of the sleeper: mr mann, it is not that the netherlands did not want that part because it would not be financiable. we have done that very well in our own country: the amount of the premium is calculated on the basis of the average of the two years' duration of the insurance contract. we are concerned that dutch people who have worked in germany or other countries and have been mobile have nothing to do with the rights they have acquired there. that's not fair treatment. i think that's the importance of article 5 on sleeping rights; i am therefore very disappointed that both the german presidency and mr mann are now trying to arrange these rights for future sleeping rights only. the argument of retroactive force is really nonsense. pension rights are determined each year, including for active members. for sleeping participants, this can happen in exactly the same way. that has nothing to do with retroactive force at all, that is simply adjusting arrangements and that is a fair share of what they should have themselves. so, full support for the report by mrs oomen-ruijten and also for our part, i hope that it will not remain, like the temporary workers directive, in the swamp mentioned by mr cocilovo, but will now be really caught up by the council.
mr president, i also have to apologise to my cypriot and maltese colleagues for spoiling this historical moment of accession to the eurozone with this debate on our institutional problems with dealing with accession issues. however, it does not take anything away from our support for their adoption of the euro and for both mr langen’s reports. we did not want to burden the accession of these two countries with the issue of the future procedure, but i hope that we can come to an agreement with the commission and the council today to ensure that, in future, there is a better procedure and a more serious opportunity for parliament to give its opinion on this issue. that is why we have drawn up this non-legislative motion for a resolution on the procedure. we would like to be invited to meet with the other two institutions to produce an interinstitutional agreement on several issues, which are listed in our motion for a resolution. this text calls for a pre-announcement system, whereby those member states wishing to accede notify us in advance so that we can begin studying the situation, and concerns the assessment of the quality of the statistics and data provided. my last point concerns the scheduling of the dates for the formal procedure. we recognise that everything has to take place in a very short period of time. however, if we are better prepared then we will have a better opportunity for serious discussion. the commissioner said that he was willing to sit together with us to conclude an interinstitutional agreement of this kind. i would like to ask mr gloser to give us that commitment as well, on behalf of the council, the german presidency and future presidencies.
president, i would like to thank you. i read the text in english:calls on the eu to increase funding to ensure that progress in basic science and biomedicine results in new and affordable drugs, vaccine and diagnostics for neglected diseases, to support the development phases of r&d, and to secure the use of new products by neglected populations whilst respecting the trips provisions; and therefore replaced by: whilst respecting international patent rights, without which pharmaceutical r&d would collapse;
mr president, about a million people are injured every year by guns, machine guns or grenade launchers. the scale of gun violence worldwide is enormous, as is the human suffering. in recent armed conflicts, small arms and light weapons are often the only weapons used. in southern africa alone, there are some 30 million small arms in circulation. in the middle east, estimates range from 60 million to 110 million. the majority of those weapons are made and sold legally. international treaties to control biological, chemical and nuclear weapons and their proliferation have existed for many decades, but despite the enormous number of casualties, the sale and trade of conventional weapons have not succeeded; the result is human rights violations, protracted wars and increasingly impoverished countries. the vast majority of these weapons are produced by five rich countries. in 2005, these were russia, the usa, france, germany and the uk; together they are responsible for 81% of the world arms trade. more than two thirds of the arms trade is directed to africa, asia, the middle east and latin america. not only are lives being destroyed, but economies, infrastructure, health care and education are also being destroyed; in northern uganda alone, 2,500 children have been out of school in the last 20 years of gun violence. president, the un resolution of 6 december 2006 sets out the basis for a convention against this free movement and control of the whole. of course, there are some things that are of the utmost importance in order to control conventional weapons. i therefore call on the council - and i also understand from president gloser that something is happening - to get a massive, rapid and positive response from the european side and to address on our part the serious shortcomings in the application of the european code of conduct of 1998. eu arms are still finding their way smoothly into countries such as sudan, china and sierra leone. it is time to make this code legally binding. that would be a great stepping stone to the u.n. process.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say what a shame it is that the rapporteur is not here, because i was going to compliment him on his excellent report and thank him for the good cooperation. unfortunately he is not here, but, worse still, the council is absent once again. i take that as a sign of its lack of commitment to these important matters, in particular to the human rights aspect of our external relations, to which i will return later. when it comes to taking security measures, measures against terrorism and crime, then the council is always present and able to take very quick decisions, but when human rights are the issue, it is not here. i would like to emphasise that point. this is a very important report, because it touches upon the very core of the european union, namely democracy, human rights and individual freedoms. i am particularly happy with the first indent of paragraph 17, which states that the promotion of democratic standards, human rights and political freedoms is a key dimension of external relations and central to our overall goals. as far as i am concerned, that is one of the report’s key paragraphs. in the last six years we have taken many measures in the fight against terrorism and crime, but this action has been very unbalanced because the human rights aspect has been completely underexposed. we have talked a lot about human rights, civil liberties and democracy. however, i wonder if we still have the same moral authority in the world, if we look, for example, at guantánamo bay, the cia renditions and secret detentions and the fact that the council has, until today, failed to reply to any of the issues that were raised. if i consider that the human rights violations in russia meet with only very timid condemnation by the european union and that the summit this weekend will very probably eliminate the charter of fundamental rights from the constitution, i wonder what kind of political signal we are sending. i think we should stop talking about the principles of human rights and democracy and actually start putting them into practice and taking them seriously. a second issue is, of course, democratic accountability, which the rapporteur rightly strongly underlines. it is very important for the european parliament to be much more closely involved in these matters and i therefore endorse the call for a passerelle. it would, however, be even better if the council arrived at conclusions on a treaty or a constitution this weekend that would ensure democratic control in the area of civil liberties, justice and home affairs. martine roure has already highlighted an important point concerning the fight against terrorism. with regard to the topical cases of swift and pnr, we have to say that there is no democratic oversight and that the agreement we will probably reach with the americans simply does not meet our standards. i am beginning to wonder – and again i am addressing the empty chair in front of me – how hard the council has been negotiating. we know that the commission has made a major effort, but i wonder about the council. small informal groups such as the g6 and the high level contact group meeting behind closed doors on matters of anti-terrorism do not befit a modern democracy like the european union.
i am not only grateful to mrs roure for her report, i am also fully in favour of it. racism is a persistent and growing problem in european societies. that is why more and better instruments are needed to tackle it, including at european level if necessary. racism knows no bounds. measures to deal with it therefore do not. last year my resolution on racism in football received overwhelming support in the european parliament and i hope that tomorrow the same will be true of mrs roure's report. in the resolution on football we called for a stricter approach, but a european approach to racism must not be limited to football alone. europe must stand up for the equal treatment of all its citizens. this requires good training and europe's active commitment to social inclusion to isolate the advocates of racism and xenophobia and to strive for a tolerant and diverse society. i am glad that hate crimes are given special attention in mrs roure's report. i also support the call for no hierarchy in the various grounds of discrimination. all forms of discrimination must be tackled equally, including islamophobia. the report mentions 9 million victims of racism and xenophobia. i am sure that this is a fair figure, but i believe that 494 million citizens are victims of racism, because racism, if it goes unpunished, is harmful to society as a whole. europe is for everyone and we must keep it that way.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to pay my compliments to martine roure, who has once again done a great job. i would also like to commend the german presidency for having secured this deal, but again i note with deep regret that the council is absent during this important debate. however, i am very happy that this legal instrument has finally been adopted. it is long awaited and very welcome, but now much depends on whether and how it will be used in practice, because a legal instrument making hate crimes a criminal offence is only the last resort. a legal instrument will not eliminate racism. only our own attitude and our own mentality can do that, and we need much more than just this framework decision. we need to promote equality, respect and tolerance, and that should be more than just words. each of us has a responsibility in europe. legislation is not enough and we should lead by example. i very much concur with mr gaubert, who made reference to statements by people in public. that does not just apply to the average citizen but, even more so, to prominent politicians and religious leaders – in short, opinion leaders. it is therefore regrettable that even prominent people in europe have recently made statements that incite hatred and violence. they contribute to a climate of intolerance and hatred. i refer, for example, to the president of one of the member states, who made very denigrating remarks about roma people. it is unacceptable and i think that parliament at least should speak out against such unacceptable statements. i am also referring to a member of this house, mr giertych, who issued an anti-semitic leaflet. fortunately we reacted very strongly to that. i am also thinking of mr wilders in my own country, who made the most outrageous remarks in a debate yesterday, to which nobody reacted. that is another problem: we allow these extremists to set the political agenda. even the mainstream parties have adapted their language to the language spoken by extremists. so we should look very carefully at our own statements and our own behaviour. finally, i very much agree with the call for the legislation to be extended to cover other groups, because we all know that hatred and violence against homosexuals is rampant in europe, even in my own country, unfortunately, as it is against women. sometimes we tend to forget that, but there are many statements that somehow seem to make violence against women acceptable. the next step should be to create a legal instrument that condemns incitement to hatred and violence against all groups of society.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the baltic sea is not affected by the crisis. in the past week we have been shocked again by the fact that people are drowning on their way to europe. eleven people drowned near lampedusa. today's dutch newspaper trouw has a moving story of somali refugees trying to reach yemen under harsh conditions. it is therefore urgent and highly topical that we try to establish a better asylum procedure and at the same time take measures to distinguish asylum seekers from illegal immigrants. it sounds like a nice idea to work together in practical ways to improve asylum policy, but that is a utopia. practical cooperation is not enough. the political will to take the necessary steps is also needed. when i read in the dutch newspapers about the meeting of the ministers of justice in luxembourg last tuesday, i get the impression that there is no political will, because the debate on the real commitment of people and material continues. if we cannot agree on joint action for frontex, a common admission policy for refugees from, say, iraq is a long way off. without a common position on the security of third countries, european officials' messages cannot be drawn up, and that is a precondition for moving forward with a harmonized asylum policy. i foresee great difficulties in implementing the intention to establish a list of safe countries of origin. what sources are reliable? can the sources of information from countries that are not safe be disclosed? in a dictatorship, it is dangerous to collect evidence against the regime. the knife cuts both ways: a list of safe countries includes countries with which we can trade, but if a country is not on that list of safe countries, refugees should be welcome. the suspension of trade relations with unsafe countries is therefore necessary to promote human rights. this is where the big problems will arise. it is not likely that former colonies of, for example, france and england will be excluded from relations with the european union when they are now ruled by a cruel regime. i would like to hear from commissioner frattini how he avoids this problem. in addition, a harmonised asylum policy would benefit from clarity. mr catania has tabled an amendment calling for open reception centres for asylum seekers and other immigrants. in my country, asylum seekers are housed in open asylum centres. people who are here illegally are rightly placed in a closed center. i do not think it is wise to set up open reception camps at the union's external borders. support for an asylum policy is undermined if people without valid papers can move freely. if the european union is to formulate a compassionate and just asylum policy, there must be political will. i call on the council and the commission to show that will in order to prevent further casualties.
mr president, in order to avoid confusion, i should just like to clarify our request for a split vote and an oral amendment to amendment 3. the oral amendment concerns the part of the text that the amendment by the ppe-de group seeks to delete. therefore, if you wish to retain the text, including the oral amendment, you should vote against the first part of amendment 3. mr president, we propose to insert the words 'by the council and the commission', so that the text will read: ‘to include a human rights compliance report by the council and the commission in all external policy initiatives or documents in the afsj...’. i must point out to you that, if this house supports amendment 3, the oral amendment will fall. however, if amendment 3 by the ppe-de group is rejected, then the oral amendment will be included.
mr president, on 31 january 2007 i sent a letter to the president of this parliament proposing the organisation of an annual lecture to honour the memory of the russian journalist anna politkovskaya. this politkovskaya lecture should be held by a journalist who distinguishes her or himself through an outstanding effort to defend democracy and respect for all human beings. with this lecture we would honour all journalists for their essential role in keeping societies open. this proposal was co-signed by bart staes, jean-marie cavada, ewa klamt and luisa morgantini. rule 28 states that the presidency has to answer within 30 days. i received only a vague reply and nothing has happened in the mean time. we would like to organise this event for october this year, one year after the assassination of our valued anna politkovskaya. we need the cooperation of the presidency and we hope we can count on it. (applause)
mr president, flavourings which are harmful to human health simply have no place in our food. and as has been said before: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food chain is not affected by the food crisis. it is good, as the rapporteur said, that research is being carried out into whether certain foods are carcinogenic. but even flavourings that are not directly harmful can have a negative effect indirectly. our bodies are being deceived by artificial aromas. flavors can account for up to 90% of the taste of a food. but by tasting, smelling, and seeing, we can determine whether we want to eat a product or not. how fresh or healthy is it? and without flavoring, you would never really start fast food. and then there are artificial flavorings that are addictive, like monosodium glutamate, and people just want to eat more of that, like, for example, chips. i am glad that parliament is proposing labels with good objective information. but that alone is not enough, because people are not aware that they have to start reading the fine print. it is therefore extremely important that a campaign be launched, for example in the context of the campaign against overweight launched by the european commission, to make clear what healthy eating is and that the fine print can mean many pounds.
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating mr trakatellis and our shadow rapporteur, mrs linda mcavan. health is a great good and an important political issue. firstly, health is a national competence, but it is a clear and important added value for europe. the citizens of europe now have very unequal access to adequate treatment. cancer patients in some countries have a significantly higher chance of survival than in others. treatment methods differ and access to health care is unequal. patients' knowledge of their disease varies from country to country, and prevention is not given the attention it deserves in all countries. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, action is needed. we need to bring knowledge together. member states, hospitals, patient associations and general practitioners can learn from each other. bring together knowledge on prevention and treatment for the main diseases, such as cancer, rheumatism, diabetes, lung diseases and of course cardiovascular diseases, and then learn from other countries where improvements are possible. establish knowledge centres and networks for the main diseases which can be an important source of information for doctors and patients.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i note that the council presidency is absent during this important debate, which is remarkable as it was responsible for the negotiations. i am therefore thankful for the presence of mr frattini. however, i would like to start by objecting to the implicit link that mr frattini makes with the failed terrorist attacks in the uk last week. i find that distasteful: it has nothing to do with pnr. that brings me to an important point that this house has emphasised many times and that is the need for an evaluation. we need evidence that the use of pnr data leads to greater security and that they are not used only to catch people who commit document fraud, drug smuggling or whatever. we need evidence and not just anecdotes. mr frattini says that this is a good agreement. well, it serves two purposes: firstly, to legalise the transfer of data by carriers and, secondly, to provide, as he has said, a high level of data protection. well, it fails miserably on the second objective; it is not legally binding, it explicitly states that it does not confer any rights on any person or any party. well, how much clearer can it get? then, it looks good superficially, but it is full of loopholes, open definitions and exceptions, when it comes to purpose limitation, for example, or the retention periods, which are going up to 15 years and maybe even more, and they will be applied retroactively. i am not a lawyer, but that strikes me as distinctly funny. the reduction from 34 to 19 data is an insult to our intelligence. if you look at the data, it is not a reduction: the 34 are merged into 19 data fields. i am not stupid. we may not have any powers here but we are not stupid. then with pull to push: we got that promise back in 2004. we still do not have it! it is technically feasible, so why do we not have it? democratic oversight is completely lacking. this house may not have competences any more, but the national parliaments are completely excluded. some of the national parliaments will get to approve the agreement, but they can only say ‘yes’ or ‘yes’, because they do not have time, they do not get all the necessary information – only very summary information – and it has just been pointed out that if one national parliament says ‘no’ then there is no agreement and no parliament will want to take that responsibility, so they have their backs against the wall. with regard to the privacy act, it is good that it now covers european citizens. we asked for that many times. however, we all know that the bush administration uses all sorts of exceptions and exemptions to the privacy act, which, incidentally, affects american citizens as it does european citizens. to conclude, concerning mr frattini’s proposal on a european pnr scheme – which is not a real proposal because he floated it at a press conference rather than putting a real proposal before this house, i think the timing – last week – was wrong and i would like to know what the justification is for such a scheme. we do not even know what purpose the pnr agreement with the united states serves. we do not know how many terrorists were caught, how many attacks were prevented and how many false positives there have been. we have insisted on an evaluation before signing a new agreement. finally, i would like to recommend that the ppe-de group support the joint motion for a resolution that we will negotiate tomorrow, read the agreement very carefully and read between the lines, because it is not as good as it looks.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0176/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97) for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (com (97) 0173 - c4-0177/97). commissioner frattini, you say that the data is only used for the fight against terrorism or serious international crime. you know the deal well. so you also know that annex ii says, as mr lambrinidis said, or otherwise required by law, by us law that is. and that, of course, makes it noticeably wider. in general, i think that you should not present things better than they are here either. it's also in the data, as sophia in the field said just now. i have the two attachments here. an old annex to the old agreement and a new annex to the new agreement. so one with the 19 information fields and the other with the 34 information fields. i would be very happy to hear from you immediately what data you think will no longer be transferred to the united states. i want to know that very specifically, because i do not think there is one single field of information which will not be transferred to the united states, let alone 15. the other point. about the push and pull. i am also tired of people pretending that this is such a great advance. the americans have proposed it twice before and now you have had to renegotiate it again so that they will simply keep their word. that is unacceptable in transatlantic relations. and finally , i was just checking the dhs website today to see how you can get your story now. they say: if you think you are a suspect and you are on a no-fly list, we cannot tell you what information we have about you, but you must tell us why you think you are a suspect. that's no way to get a story! so i should go ahead and say: i may be a vegetarian, but you can't really make any sense of it. it's absurd that you yourself don't have access to the information you're apparently being billed on.
mr president, after endless debate, pulling and pushing, i had hoped for an adequate statement as to the effectiveness, or the supposed effectiveness, of an agreement like this. however, that hope vanished like snow in the sun when i saw the agreement, the agreement announced with such pomp and triumph by mr schäuble, among others, but also by you. there was not a word said about this supposed effectiveness. how many terrorists have been held under the existing interim agreement? of course, like the commission, i too understand the importance of having an agreement, and not least because of the position of the european aviation industry. legal certainty is important to everyone. but regulation for the sake of regulation is not an end in itself. after reading this agreement, i believe that the level of cigarette off-the-shelf is very, very high. it is and remains incomprehensible to me why we as a union are being pushed into such an underdog position. the council and the commission can both benefit from the perseverance of our champion sophie in the field. all credit to sophie and her tireless efforts. finally, the fight against terrorism is of course an important one. but i cannot help feeling that in this we are in danger of losing sight of reality. this deal is not good enough. far from it.
mr president, we are lacking an important piece of information. the ppe-de group is basing its positive opinion partly on the fact that the amount of data now being sent to the us is reduced from 34 to 19. i have challenged the commission to say which of the 15 pieces of information are no longer being transferred to the us, because as far as i see it – and the rapporteur sophia in 't veld also mentioned this – most of the fields are merged so that the change is mainly cosmetic. i would like to be convinced that the opposite is true. i would like the commission to list the 15 information fields which are now no longer being transferred to the us.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. president. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the report adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs is in fact entirely in line with your position, and largely in line with the commission's position and the position i had set out as rapporteur. it is clear that in the 21st century we need a real full-fledged internal energy market. that was expressed at the summit two weeks ago, and that means that we are striving for effective competition. so protectionism is out of the question. it is very good that mr vidal-quadras' report says that there must be reciprocity, because all too often we see countries that want to protect their own national champions on the one hand, but go shopping in other countries, and of course that is not possible. of course, the interests of the citizens must be protected, because you are right to say that energy is a specific commodity. but this must be done through public service obligations, through the government taking responsibility and not through protectionism. protecting him? - i know. protection of markets? - no, i did not. finally, i am very pleased that the report now expresses very clearly a longstanding wish of the liberals, namely that by creating a genuine level playing field and incorporating the external environmental costs into the price, renewable energy sources will finally be able to compete well with other energy sources, because that will certainly benefit our environment.
president. - thank you to mr vidal-quadras for his excellent report. tomorrow we shall vote on the ownership unbundling of the electricity grids and the production of electricity. it just so happens that the upper house of the dutch parliament is also voting on this matter tomorrow. the conclusion in the netherlands is that we will move towards a separation of energy supply and network management. if this happens in the rest of europe, it will be good news for dutch energy companies. they no longer have to feel like the best boy in the class. it is also good news for the development of renewable energy. because only through full ownership can we open up the energy market to new suppliers, and that is badly needed. there is currently too little network capacity to allow new entrants to the networks. the energy giants are reluctant to invest in capacity expansion for new entrants. access to networks is often difficult due to a lack of transparency, leading to huge delays, for example in the wind energy sector. splitting up is the answer!
i would like to thank mr sornosa martínez, on behalf of the pse group. you have our warm and full support. mercury, and in particular mercury compounds and mercury vapours, are toxic. mercury can accumulate in the brain tissue and nervous system, causing great damage there. this can lead to reduced intelligence. a wise policy is therefore to prohibit the use of mercury in unnecessary applications. there are alternatives available, and that is why it is good that the mercury thermometer is a thing of the past. there's a lot of debate about barometers. in the netherlands, the use of mercury has been banned since 2003. however, an exception was made for barometers until 2005 and then until 1 january 2006 pending new european rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. that would be january 1, 2010. there is therefore a lot of extra time and plenty of time to develop alternatives, many of which already exist, as the commissioner confirmed. of course, i can imagine that it is still a harsh message for the manufacturers of barometers. but if we want to eliminate mercury, then we should at least ban mercury-containing products for consumers. barometers can break or leak and mercury still gets into the environment. i agree with the manufacturers of barometers that the use of mercury in incandescent lamps is also very harmful. it is a good idea to switch to led lamps as soon as possible, but this directive is about mercury in measuring equipment and not about incandescent lamps. i therefore wholeheartedly support mrs sornosa martínez again and i think she has chosen a very good approach.
the commission has already been asked by the council in june 2004 to prepare a general strategy for the protection of critical infrastructure. the commission has therefore not lost sight of this subject in the last three years, and rightly so. in accordance with the wishes of the council and also of the european parliament, the commission has finally come forward with a proposal for a european programme for the protection of critical infrastructure, or the directive we are now discussing. as rapporteur, i support the idea of a common framework in this area. effective protection of vulnerable critical infrastructures, as well as of services, requires communication, coordination and cooperation involving all stakeholders, both at national and european level. the complex processes and interfaces of critical infrastructure with a transnational dimension are also, in my view, legitimate concerns. and as commissioner frattini has made clear on several occasions: damage to or loss of a particular infrastructure facility in one member state may have negative consequences for several other member states and even for the european economy as a whole. new technologies, such as the internet, and the further liberalisation of the market, for example in the supply of electricity and gas, mean that many infrastructure services are now integrated into a larger network. and indeed, in those circumstances, the effectiveness of all those protective measures is determined by the weakest link. i do think, and mr frattini has already said so, that the commission has been a little too forward or a little too enthusiastic on certain aspects of the directive. it should be clear that the primary and ultimate responsibility lies with the member states and the owners of that critical infrastructure. in this respect, i believe that a bottom-up approach is crucial. in my view, a joint action can only be justified if at least three member states would be adversely affected, or at least two other member states than the one where the critical infrastructure is located. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i also believe that overlaps or contradictions with existing laws and/or regulations should be avoided at all costs. existing criteria and mechanisms should therefore be respected. i also think it is important that the private sector should not be subjected to unnecessary administrative burdens. make use of the expertise already available and do not try to reinvent the wheel! i therefore advocate a pragmatic but structural approach. after the debate in the committees, certain groups in parliament agreed to focus on the so-called priority sectors. it was also decided to scrap the proposed comitology procedure. the use of the comitology procedure has brought us to the brink too often in the past. i am therefore very grateful to the commissioner for his comments on this and the other amendments and for his satisfaction. i would like to hear a further comment on the definition of two to three member states, because that is the most important amendment in my view. finally, a word to the council. this one shines through absence. the agreement on a common position is still a bridge too far. this is remarkable, because the council itself has asked for this common framework. it is also strange, because if something happens, the council is all too happy to take the lead in announcing all kinds of rules immediately without really looking at the quality of the proposals, their implications for the internal market, for example, or their implications for the european citizens. the council is expected to show vision and decisiveness in this. and at the opening of the plenary session earlier today, president pöttering spoke words of wisdom. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the other hand, a structural approach, respecting the principles of the rule of law - and this is extremely important - is very welcome. thank you and thank you to the commissioner.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. they can now invoke the emergence of a new kind of terrorism. everyone is frightened by this terrorism and it creates room for immature solutions. at all levels of government, proposals have been made to subordinate democracy, freedom of association, freedom of demonstration, right to strike, freedom of travel and privacy to the supposed guarantees of security. the weakness of that approach is that it does not remove the breeding ground for terrorism, such as the stark inequality in wealth and power that divides the world. instead, we're going to collect more intelligence, we're going to guard more objects, we're going to organize more bureaucracy, and we're going to incite more discontent. the european union already has 32 directives, regulations, conventions and decisions in the field of critical infrastructure, which enable a european approach. the addition of a new directive with more powers and obligations therefore raises questions. the committee on subsidiarity of the dutch parliament drew my attention to this in january. the committee calls into question the legal basis of article 308 of the ec treaty, which is aimed at the interim extension of powers, and considers that the protection of vital infrastructure is primarily a national matter. as the shadow rapporteur on this subject in the committee on transport i was very pleased that this committee decided to call on the committee on civil liberties to reject the proposal altogether. the main reason for this request was that everything in the draft directive could be better regulated at a small scale, i.e. by the member states or their subdivisions. in this case, more european union involvement means more unproductive bureaucracy. unfortunately, the groups which voted unanimously against in the committee on transport were divided in the committee on civil liberties. that is also true of my group. most of the smaller national delegations think it is a bad proposal. on the one hand, because it makes the division of responsibilities between the member states and the union less clear by unnecessary interference. on the other hand, because it could be misused to restrict civil rights, such as the freedom of demonstration and assembly, with a reference to the protection of infrastructure. it is not international terrorism that is at stake here, but domestic democracy. in contrast, the members of our larger delegations from germany and italy also see positive points in the proposal. they expect a reduction in the powers already exercised by the commission in practice and improved parliamentary control over the application of the remaining powers. the amendments are welcomed by supporters and opponents in my group because they essentially weaken the draft and limit its application to matters affecting at least three member states.
mr president, the failure of private postal companies led to takeover by the state more than a century ago. since then, it has been the best guarantee of delivering mail on time and at the same rate everywhere. differences between densely populated areas, where postal delivery is profitable, and sparsely populated or remote areas, where delivery is expensive, were eliminated. sorting and delivering mail was left in the hands of professionals who delivered quality. the postman and the post office became in many cases an indispensable contact not only for rural residents but also for the economically weakest urban residents. for many years we have seen private companies eager to take over the most profitable parts. they prefer to employ temporary workers, such as students, housewives and the elderly, for whom postal delivery is not the main means of livelihood. these people are preferably paid by letter rather than by the hour. post offices are replacing them with contracts with supermarkets. the result is that the quality of the customers is reduced and the staff is greatly reduced. politicians who participate in it create a problem rather than solve it. the risk is that the government will have to subsidize the most loss-making parts of the postal service, while the profitable parts will be taken over by large international companies. the compromise reached by the three largest political groups does provide a delay and a relaxation of the original proposal, but no lasting solutions. my group has tabled proposals for improvement and supports those of others, but we are far more in favour of rejecting the proposal and continuing the present situation.
first of all, mr president, i should like to congratulate mr ferber on the result achieved. after years of study and debate, the free postal market is in sight. the main point of this report is the fixing of a definitive date for the opening of the postal market. that means providers know what they're up against. it gives them the opportunity to orient their business operations to this, if they have not already done so. this will increase the strength of the sector as a whole. that is necessary to be able to fight the battle with electronic communications. another advantage is that attention is paid to the specific situation in the member states. the proposal recognises the differences in social, geographical and economic terms. member states shall reserve the right to deal with those national concerns in the most appropriate manner. i do not deny that some companies in europe are facing difficult times. however, experience has shown that market-oriented operations are useful for sharpening the mind and exploiting opportunities. i hope that all the postal companies in europe will be willing and able to make that strike.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, it has been said many times in this house. what's happening now, what we're talking about now, is inevitable, but, consumers, you need not fear: the services will be improved and the prices will be lowered. fellas, let's be honest with each other. we all know that there are no guarantees. we know this by looking at the experience, for example, in sweden and england. in particular, in smaller postal markets, the replacement of the state monopoly will mean the creation of a private monopoly, and we all know that this means that there are no guarantees of better service and lower prices. but what i am most concerned about, frankly, is the position, the future of the workers who now work at the post office. i say this on the basis of experience, for example in the already liberalized part of the postal market in the netherlands. we see that many fixed jobs have been transformed into insecure parttime jobs. and let us be honest with the citizens of europe. liberalisation does not necessarily make things better. i'm also saying this based on my own personal history. my father worked for the post office for 40 years. so did my uncles and my cousins. those were jobs to be proud of. jobs that many people were proud of. and i know that that world of old, the world of old certainties, is not coming back. i'm not saying out of nostalgia or some sort of false romance that we should go back to that time. but it does create a, let me say, uncomfortable feeling about the uncertain future of many people who now work at the post office, who are proud of it or people who are proud of their postman. it also raises serious doubts as to whether this is the message we as a european parliament should be conveying. great promises to the consumers we know are butter-smooth. on the other hand, announcements of sweeping changes for the employees we know can be very tough. that is not my idea of a social europe.
i would like to thank mr ferber for his work as rapporteur on this sensitive subject which affects many citizens in europe. the provision of a comprehensive and efficient service to consumers and businesses is no longer possible with old state monopolies without market incentives. it is therefore good that these monopolies will disappear by the end of 2010 and that more room will be created for innovation and new services. president. - the council is divided, but under the leadership of mr ferber, parliament is once again taking the lead in finding a solution to a sensitive issue. the proposal now before us is, in my view, a balanced proposal. it includes a clear date for the abolition of monopolies and the fixing of reciprocity. however, a level playing field is essential. and as regards the conditions for market access, various interests must be and are being taken into account. this opens up a range of possibilities for member states to finance services. but there is a risk in that too: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the european commission therefore has a major task to perform in assessing very critically the financing arrangements and conditions of the member states and to check whether there is any fair competition. mr president, mr meijer is still living in the last century. because the postal market has been undergoing major changes for many years. e-mail, the internet and other communication technologies have brought about many changes and fundamentally changed the postal market. this is an irrevocable cost to employment, but a liberalised market also challenges us to be creative. experience shows that new services and new activities also lead to new jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, to be honest, for a liberal the compromise before us is not a party package. after 15 years of debate, the date of entry into force has been postponed. the compromise also contains the necessary protectionist provisions which prevent the market from being fully opened and create a great deal of legal uncertainty. the debates were and are often national in character. the member states which have not reformed sufficiently in recent years are particularly clearly opposed to a rapid and full market operation. in this way, they deny businesses and consumers the benefits of competition and thus increase efficiency, quality and innovation. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. i am therefore even more astonished to see the council debates in this dossier. the council, which is again conspicuous by its absence. despite all the good intentions and strategies such as the lisbon strategy, the trend in 2007 is to isolate the internal market. i cannot therefore join the colleagues who applaud and praise the compromise, nor those who speak of all sorts of horror scenarios and/or social dumping.
rapporteur. – mr president, in drafting this report for the european parliament, i have wholeheartedly congratulated commissioner mccreevy and his predecessor, mr bolkestein, on the success of the financial markets legislation and regulation and the executive work of the european commission in this respect. we have no disagreements about that. we may differ, though, with respect to the assessment of further steps and the priorities for the follow-up. i think this is linked to a difference in perspective. for me, it is not enough just to look at the success of this financial sector as such. i see this sector as instrumental, and want to assess whether it provides the right infrastructure for economic growth, wealth and well-being. that is why in my report i focus first on the strategic question of who is profiting from this success. are end users profiting to the same extent as the few large multinational financial conglomerates that have acquired dominant positions at the top of the financial markets? who is profiting most from the increased liquidity in the markets? is it kkr, blackstone and the other private equity firms that do billion-dollar deals, or is it the companies that are covered because they see credit ratings tumble down to junk status? do entrepreneurs still dare to invest in long-term research and development projects for the development of innovative new products and services, or are they squeezed in ever shorter cycles of financial planning and reporting? is the huge increase of complex financial products derived from the traditional bonds and equities really leading to a better allocation of capital, or does it contribute mainly to greater speculative profits for the hedge funds that master the rules of the pyramid game? are citizens in the recently-acceded member states better off now with the invasion of foreign banks and insurance companies in their countries, or are they confronted again with monopolistic structures that only provide them with standard, mediocre-quality products at prices higher than in the countries where they have their headquarters? these and similar questions seem to me to be fundamental to answering the question of what kind of follow-up is required, and the first preliminary message in my report is thus to make more in-depth economic analysis about that. i shall turn now to the priorities outlined in my report. the first message deals with one of my great concerns, the enormous market concentration at the top of the market, with 30 to 40 major cross-border financial players and a high concentration in several member states. in the competition report that we adopted at the last part-session, we voiced our concerns and suggested that commissioner kroes put on her list of possible enquiries and further investigations the activities at the top of the financial market of investment banks, credit rating agencies, accounting firms, etc. we repeated this suggestion to her last week. the second issue is the financial stability risks of these new developments of alternative investments – hedge funds, private equity. i do not have to go into detail there because the papers daily show that there are currently more concerns at the developments. prudential supervisors, central banks, the ecb and our counterparts in the usa, whom we will visit next week, also raised these concerns and i think it is high time that we dealt with these risks. the third issue is the retail markets. my answer to the lack of integration at the retail side is not just to overhaul this system and open up the borders but to make a more precise focused strategy, particularly for mobile users, who have a real need in terms of accessing and working with service providers in different members states, so that could be more of a stimulation for pan-european financial products such as the pension product that was presented some weeks ago by the european banking federation. demand for microcredit is an important issue, as are pension systems, access to basic services, financial education and stronger consumer input and, finally, better regulation and the future architecture of supervision. on this issue, i think the main difference is that your mantra is ‘less is more’, as you said last week. we think that we need a focused regulation. as regards the architecture of supervision i would say that it will be high time to discuss the future architecture in the autumn and not just wait and see what will happen, although there are a lot of good developments.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. commission rapporteur, i am not against the reform of labour law if it leads to more security for adequate health care, unemployment benefits, pensions for everyone and therefore also for the lowest paid. the commission is turning this around. instead of advocating the strengthening of workers' rights, the commission wants to make europe an employer's paradise, where the right not to be dismissed will be a nostalgic thing of the past. where you no longer have the right to refuse overtime without pay and cao's are considered old-fashioned. the commission calls this flexicurity. - that sounds good. but the translation of what the commission is trying to achieve is simple. more flexibility for the employer and more uncertainty for the employee. this will be particularly disastrous for women, young people and minorities who are already lagging behind in the labour market and have a disproportionate share of parttime jobs and temporary contracts. they will be the first victims if this proposal is passed unchanged. then the rest will follow.
you can see how our eye contact is still working, and that's fine. mr president, it is a good thing that we are having a debate today on employment law. - why? - why? because there are some things changing in the labour market in europe and in all our member states. we see that there is a great need for flexibility. flexibility to respond better to the needs of the market on the one hand, but also flexibility requested by the workers themselves because they often want to combine work with family, family and care duties. this flexibility is necessary, especially in a society which is aging and deteriorating, and in which the people who are aging may no longer want to function in the labour market for the full 40 or 36 hours and may want to maintain their participation in the labour market with a smaller job. but if we want this flexibility and if we recognise it as a good thing - and that is why this debate is so good - then from the outset - and i am sorry that mrs matsouka has left the chamber because she was talking about a debate between the right and the left, but she is not listening at all - we will also be providing the security of those who want to work in smaller and more flexible jobs and thus also make the labour market work better. it is a shortcoming - and we may be able to make up for it with the amendments which will be adopted shortly - that the great good of flexibility is no longer recognised. i'm sorry to hear that. i also believe, mr president, that we cannot leave it to the market alone, because the market regulates itself. we must try to reinstate flexibility combined with good safeguards.
the importance of the oceans is well known. we live, eat and enjoy. that is why attention to good ocean management is vital. the piecyk report covers this in a comprehensive way. good governance requires a balanced approach that balances environmental and economic aspects at global, european and national levels. in this way we will be able to reap the benefits of the oceans in the future. i would like to make a comment on the development of ports. in order to make a substantial contribution to the well-being of citizens, it is important that they can develop within the framework of their strengths. i believe that europe should be reluctant to influence this development, both in spatial and economic terms. member states are responsible for the design of their ports and the market will ensure efficient handling of cargo flows. to make this visible in the text, i have tabled a number of amendments and i hope that the members will support them.
the sea, mr president, is a great asset with enormous wealth and we must take good care of it. this is precisely why the integrated approach of this green paper is so important. but it must be practical and workable so that we do not miss our goal. i agree with the rapporteur that environmental protection and sustainability are important. i also pay tribute to his report. but i must say that it was very difficult because of the procedure for closer cooperation. we now have a 147-page christmas tree. what i find important and regrettable is that the importance of maritime transport seems to be somewhat underestimated under the new measures. it is precisely from the point of view of sustainability that maritime transport is so important. we already have a lot of regulations when it comes to safety or environmentally friendly transport. but implementation and enforcement by the member states are still very poor. i would really like to call on the commission to make implementation and enforcement of the existing rules a priority. the european union must also have more coordinating powers and, if necessary, be able to enforce enforcement. the commission was to launch a feasibility study on a european coastguard by the end of 2006. it's now mid-2007 and we've still got nothing to show for it. i would urge you to make this work. the commission, mr president, must call on the member states to ensure good spatial planning and coastal zone management. but it must be the member states themselves who bear the responsibility for this. local, regional and rural policy also has a responsibility for the sustainability and conservation of these areas, and i believe that subsidiarity must apply here, particularly where land is concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the railways. this is true even for long-distance crossborder transport. the rail system is suitable for mass transport and in some cases special freight lines have long been built for this purpose, especially in and around industrial areas in germany. the recently opened bethuel line in the netherlands, part of the no 1 freight corridor from rotterdam through germany and switzerland to genoa, is also a special line that is completely unsuitable for passenger transport. despite this favourable starting position for rail, the share of goods transported by rail has declined and in some cases even the volume is declining. much of this transport has been taken over by the lorry and the large growth in the volume of goods is largely handled by the motorways, which are becoming increasingly congested. a significant part of this shift is infrastructure related. in the past, the railways had a very fine network of branches. they opened up villages in the countryside as well as ports and factory sites in the cities. in addition to freight lines, there were also transshipment stations where freight cars were collected and redistributed among different trains. many companies had their own connection to the railway network. this meant that a freight car could travel directly between a harbour quay and a distant factory without any intermediate transshipment of goods. everything that is sought to be achieved by multimodal systems today was already achieved then. unfortunately, governments have chosen to reduce the railway network because it was considered to be loss-making. many small rail lines have been dismantled and many connections to businesses have disappeared. on the other hand, billions have been invested in the expansion of the space-hungry network of highways. today, the only way to transport goods from door to door is by truck. it is indispensable for the pre- and post-transport and it seems easy to make the much longer intermediate section by road. restoration of business links and transfer stations could make an important contribution to the recovery of rail freight transport. the first railway package is based partly on the assumption that rail transport should take over the mode of operation of road and air transport. international companies then arrange the cross-border transport from the point of origin to the point of destination, and that is the most attractive for those who have something to transport. my group has always stressed that this is not the only possible solution. there is an alternative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the railway infrastructure. they should not see each other as competitors but as partners in a comprehensive european rail network. it is precisely by encouraging them to compete that cooperation will be more rigid. so far we have seen no positive results from the course taken. the free market is often not the solution to problems, but the cause of them. the rapporteur rightly advocates the use of the new standard security system, ertms. we agree with him. we also note that the start-up of this system is taking much longer than expected and that a second old system will have to be maintained alongside the new system. however, due to the average low speed of freight transport, ertms is less problematic than high-speed passenger lines. finally, we agree with mr cramer that air and road transport are being made artificially cheap and rail transport artificially expensive. if we don't change that, the least environmentally friendly transport will continue to win.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. halfway through the planning horizon of the white paper on transport, it appears that the objectives are not yet within reach. the commission's decision to adjust the targets is courageous and wise. i must compliment you on that. the change in course, however, means that a large number of boards must be checked at the same time. the aim is no longer just to move cargo, but to improve every modality. in some cases this requires considerable international action and perseverance. there is also plenty to do within europe. adequate infrastructure, use of new technology, specific action programmes for sub-markets and further introduction of the 'polluter pays' principle. it is very right that these elements have been included in the report by mr barsi-pataky. i can therefore largely agree with the content of her report. there are two points on which i have tabled an amendment. this parliament makes a lot of transport legislation and then it is often up to the member states to implement that legislation. it has been found that the same legal text is interpreted and enforced in different ways in different member states. this means that, for example, drivers who drive through several member states comply with the same legislation in one country and not in the other. with all the consequences of that. that is unacceptable to me. amendment no 4 by my own hand calls attention to this and calls on the member states and the commission to achieve a joint interpretation of legal texts where necessary. the amendment does not provide for common sanctions for infringements. the second point concerns urban transport. although i welcome that, i believe that this is and should remain a competence of the member states. the european union's role can therefore only be facilitative. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky for her efforts and congratulate her on this result.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market economy is not a one-way street. there are too many irregularities in bilateral trade relations for that to be the case. i am thinking, for example, of the many violations of intellectual property. i have also heard from your excellent report, commissioner, that after your meeting with chinese foreign minister bo xilai on 12 june, the dialogue on intellectual property rights has been resumed. i'm glad to hear that. i also believe that the eu is doing the right thing - unlike my liberal colleague - by dealing directly with the united states in such matters within the wto. the united states will ultimately remain our most important strategic ally. and then, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to another important aspect of our trade relations with china, namely the european export of secondary raw materials such as waste paper. that's a big deal today. last weekend the dutch press published a major article on this subject. as you know, the new european rules on the export of these raw materials will come into force in two days' time. the commission's mistakes have meant that no agreements have been concluded with important countries such as china and india. as a result, as of 12 july, waste paper and other recyclable materials are considered the most hazardous waste. you will understand that this has a major impact on the export of these products. i call on commissioner mandelson to ask this parliament to grant a transitional arrangement until 1 january 2008. during this period you can conclude agreements with those countries with which this has not yet been done. this will prevent exports from stopping and these products from accumulating in european ports such as rotterdam. i hope, commissioner, that you will take real action, because this is a matter which the dutch public finds very bad for europe.
member of the commission. mr president, bearing in mind your probable desire for this house to rise before midnight, i would just like to say that overwhelmingly the contributions to this debate have been very balanced and very realistic. i think that mr calabuig rull and mr carnero gonzález, for example, made appropriate observations in stressing the fact that china is an opportunity for europe, as well as a threat. another appropriate observation was that of mr fjellner that we need to take the longer-term political view in our relations with china, but he also referred to the growth of protectionism, of a sort of chinese nationalism which is becoming more prominent in china’s trade practices. my view is that china’s nationalism does not sit comfortably with the enormous benefits that it is deriving from the internationalist trading system that is based on reciprocity. without reciprocity china will not be able to expect in the future the continued goodwill and balanced approach that it has been receiving from europe. the fact is that china is falling below our expectations. it is not that it is failing to comply with or implement all its wto obligations and commitments, because in many respects it is. but in certain other key areas of economic activity in china, in financial and other services, it is failing to implement fully the commitments that it made upon its accession to the wto. one or two concerns have been expressed about textiles. this house will recall that in 2005 i negotiated a voluntary agreement with china that gave european industry an extra period of two-and-a-half years to restructure and to adapt to the new global situation in the textile sector. it was a once-and-for-all, bilaterally concluded agreement and the commission therefore has no means simply to seek an extension of the agreed levels that have been operating beyond the beginning of 2008. however, i will be putting in place means to monitor and to keep under surveillance any sudden and large-scale changes in imports of chinese textiles that threaten to disrupt our market in europe, and i will consider what, if any, action i can take in the light of disturbances to our market. this is quite distinct from the use of trade defence instruments. the textiles agreement was based on fair trade. it was not unfair trade. it was just a disturbance that we were unable to take on on such a scale at this time. in other respects, the use of tdi is not against china’s natural competitive advantage but against unfair competition, and we will retain the right and the full use of our trade defence instruments and employ them as and when necessary. in conclusion, others have referred to the need for china to consciously build up the standards it operates in relation to social, labour and environmental standards. that will always be a feature of the discussions that i undertake with chinese officials. i am personally very committed to growing technology transfer with china on climate change projects. this is a key way to ensure chinese interest in tackling climate change. it is a win-win situation. the eu can export energy-efficient, clean technology and china can make a contribution to tackling its environmental problems. this is at the heart of our dialogue with china on climate change and it is something in the trade realm that i intend to build up in the future. that concludes my remarks in response to this debate, which i greatly welcome. as i say, it has been very balanced, and i will certainly ensure that i and my services take into account fully the remarks and observations that have been made by members of this house this evening.
mr president, i asked the commissioner a very clear question: at the moment there is unrest in my country, a big news report on a mission of the commission agreeing to the export of so-called secondary resources such as old paper, recycling material, etc. what are you going to do, commissioner? i ask you to conclude agreements with countries such as china and india and pause until 1 january 2008, because otherwise there is a standstill in exports in harbours like rotterdam. i asked you what you were going to do. i did not get an answer. i hope you forgot it.
mr president, i wish to begin with an urgent matter. i have just received the news that in libya the death penalty has just been confirmed on the bulgarian nurses. i should like to make a direct appeal to mr sócrates to act on behalf of the european union to ensure that there is a kind of grace or there is direct contact with mr gaddafi that this verdict should not be implemented. (applause) we are very shocked that the courts in libya have reconfirmed the death penalties for europeans, who should be freed and allowed to go to their homes in bulgaria. prime minister, i urge you to do whatever you can to make clear to the libyan authorities the view of the european parliament and the european union in general. i should like to hear your views on foreign issues: how you see further developments in relations with russia; the preparation of a partnership and cooperation agreement; what steps you will be able to take to ensure that, in this second half of 2007, we will be able to develop a mandate to restart and start negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement. it is very important to have these talks with the russians on more transparent energy relations, on the problems in our shared neighbourhood, but also to be able to restart the human rights dialogue, the democracy debate between russia and the european union, but also to be able to further develop our multilateral agenda, whether it concerns iran, the future of the united nations system, kyoto and so on. secondly, i should like to hear your comments on how you see the further developments concerning kosovo, which is also related to our relations with russia. we are pleased that there is now a period of three or four months that will allow for further talks, especially with the new government, which we support very much, given the important role of the democratic party in that government. what can you do to ensure that, in the end, there is a result that is acceptable – maybe not completely acceptable, but more acceptable – to serbia, and which will have the support of russia in the security council and will also keep the european union united? mr ahtisaari’s proposals should be a basis, but we should also have a situation in which there is a un resolution as a basis for the operation of european union in the future. we expect that kosovo will define its status in the end. (applause)
rapporteur. – on this paragraph, i propose withdrawing the oral amendments but asking the ppe-de group if they can agree that both amendment 5 from their side and amendment 17 from the alde group are compatible and that we can vote on both of them. if that is the case, we will vote in favour of your amendment as well. if not, we will vote against it and i can then withdraw my amendment 23.
rapporteur. – i should simply like to add ‘group’ to paragraph 34, so that it is the ‘european investment bank group’ instead of just the bank.
in writing. i have just voted against the resolution by mr leinen on the convening of the intergovernmental conference. the reason for this is not that i am against the convening of this igc. i am in favour of the creation of a new treaty. the reason for my objection is that the resolution continues to refer too often to certain elements of the constitutional treaty, such as the use of the term 'constitution' and the symbols of the union. i am, however, relieved that a new treaty has been stripped of this constitutional symbolism, a position also taken by the dutch government. this will partly strip the eu of its state aspirations. i cannot agree with the harsh words that have been used against those member states which have opted out of the charter. even without explicit reference to it in a new treaty, the charter remains legally binding. so this is mainly a symbolic piece. i voted against this resolution because it is precisely these constitutional aspirations of the union that are being cherished. the european parliament would do better to follow the council in a measure of sobriety and propriety in the creation of a new treaty.
madam president, i want to use my short speaking time to express, on behalf of the pse group, our full support for the stability and growth pact – it is necessary to repeat that several times – and in particular for the reform of the pact. we have made it more intelligent to take into account the economic cycle and developments. this is something that has to be applied properly and not deliberately as is now the case. therefore, i appreciate what mr juncker and mr almunia have said, and it is good that we also express this on behalf of my political group. i wish to draw attention to two specific issues and i should like to hear the reactions from the three of you, whom i am very happy to see together here for this debate. one is the wage moderation issue. we support the principle that wage moderation should remain within the productivity growth, and this has been the case for more than ten years. however, it is now time to look at the rebalancing of the fruits of growth and, where we see that wages lag behind and are a smaller part of gdp, it is also time to look at rebalancing this. i should like to hear some comments on this. i know that mr juncker and mr almunia have also expressed them in this way. i should like to invite the president of the ecb in particular to comment on this issue. the other issue i want to raise is not only hedge funds but also paragraph 19 of the mitchell report on corporate debt restructuring. this is a major concern for financial stability, and i should also like to ask you how to assess this and how to deal with this issue.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force. of course, everyone in new york is busy puzzling: how do we get a resolution through the security council, in other words, how do we prevent a russian veto? of course, everyone is doing their best to safeguard the unity of the european union and we are naturally calling on the kosovars to remain calm. that's all the clarity. but what exactly is the eu's role in the near future and when will it be able to fulfil it? a random snapshot from the newspapers over the last few days. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. the eu will take its responsibility and make a decision on kosovo if russia continues to say 'no'. in other words: the european union will act even if there is no resolution. mr solana himself on 10 july: it is impossible for us to send a mission without a mandate and therefore we await a resolution. and an anonymous eu diplomat on the same day: the eu hopes the new un resolution will allow it to send a large-scale mission, even if the future of the province remains unclear. in other words: i am not saying that we should not have a mandate, but we should not say anything about independence. commissioner, council, please tell us now what the minimum is that a resolution should contain so that the eu can send a mission to kosovo in the short term. and when are we actually talking about sending a mission? the original intention was to do so four months after a resolution. is the eu now prepared to send a mission, too, when nothing is known about independence? i want to be clear about that. you owe it to us and to the voters.
i would like to add my support to what has been said by my colleague, mr swoboda. i think that the postponement now agreed with the security council provides the space for another maximum attempt to reach agreement within the security council. such agreement is the basis of everything: the european union has a duty to ensure that the kosovo crisis is not just a crisis of unity within the european union, but also a crisis of unity in the region of the former yugoslavia. it is also important in this context to show the serbs once again that, although we support the ahtisaari proposals because they form the basis of what we want with kosovo, we also want to make a serious attempt to have a good conversation with them about what might still change, what concessions are still possible. we must not put the new government of serbia in a corner, because it is still important for us to maintain good relations with that country. i am glad that commissioner rehn has made a lot of progress in the last few weeks in the contacts, relations and negotiations with the new government. it is important to be careful not to confuse the progress of relations with serbia with the kosovo issue. in short, a maximum effort to reach a consensus and perhaps at the end also a good agreement to disagree with our serbian partners in the region.
president, it became clear as early as the autumn of 2006 that the ahtisaari report would go in the direction of independence, with special measures for the protection of serbian and other minorities. it was then clear that serbia would not want to agree to this and was counting on a russian veto in the united nations security council. since then, the question has been whether such a veto would lead to unilateral recognition of kosovo as a state by other states, including the united states and european union member states. that is the controversial model which was used in 1992 to recognise the independence of slovenia and croatia by germany, before any european or international decisions were taken. do you expect this model to be re-applied if necessary? is it possible to avoid the application of the contested model if the area north of kosovska mitrovica, where the serb population of kosovo is concentrated, is returned to serbia? in that case, can we get agreement from serbia and the russian federation?
the former federal republic of yugoslavia has disintegrated into six internationally recognized states, and kosovo is likely to join them soon. it is remarkable that the european union has adopted a separate approach for each of these seven states. slovenia has been a member for over three years, negotiations with croatia are being successfully concluded and macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005 without any negotiations. with the other regions, there is only talk of stabilisation and association, with serbia and bosnia suffering long delays because they have not been able to meet the conditions laid down. this is in stark contrast to the simultaneous admission in 2004 of estonia, latvia and lithuania, which were occupied by the soviet union until 1991, and the czech republic and slovakia, which were a common state until 1993, on the one hand, and the czech republic and slovakia, which were a common state until 1993, on the other. i have always advocated that the accession process of croatia and macedonia should at least take place as simultaneously as possible, and i regret that by delaying the negotiations, macedonia is now two years behind croatia. that does not mean that i think macedonia is now fully ripe for accession. the serious environmental pollution and the complicated status of trade unions do not fit into what is normal in europe. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. the role of the state in the kidnapping of a german citizen for american interrogation in afghanistan has not yet been clarified. the current government, in its initial phase, placed a disproportionate emphasis on economic growth, including through extremely low taxes that could ruin the country. these and other problems will have to be solved in the coming years. however, two other issues dominate public opinion and publicity inside and outside macedonia. the community's relations with the countries of the mediterranean are characterized by the internal relations between the various groups of the population and the relations with the neighbouring countries, particularly greece. other european countries, notably belgium and switzerland, but also spain, italy and finland, show how to deal effectively with the equality of citizens, despite major internal differences in language and culture. in the first years of independence, too much has been made of the impression that macedonia is mainly a state of people who use the macedonian language, which is related to bulgarian and to a lesser extent to serbian. fortunately, it is now generally recognised that education and administration in the mother tongue are very important for the large albanian population, which constitutes the majority in the north-west. it also seeks to develop close relations with the future neighbour, kosovo, with which many of its inhabitants have family ties. the recent agreements between the largest governing party and the largest party of the albanian-speaking population, which boycotted the parliamentary sessions for months, give hope of reconciliation and an increasingly equal position of the albanian population. members of the many smaller groups, the most prominent of which are the roma and the turks, also have the right to equal treatment, participation in decision-making and the exercise of public functions. macedonia is now presenting itself as a multiethnic state and that creates obligations. macedonia is the designation of a geographical area with an ancient and long history of changing inhabitants, parts of which now belong to greece and bulgaria. the use of the same name for a state that includes part of the territory has caused controversy. bulgaria, the state which in 1878 was forced to give back to turkey most of the part of macedonia already allocated to its territory and later had to watch this area being taken over by serbia, has reconciled with its independent neighbours and was the first state to recognise the constitutional name of the republic of macedonia. on the other hand, since its independence in 1991, neighbouring greece has seriously objected to this constitutional name. today, the greek position is that the name macedonia is acceptable, provided that another concept is added to it that makes clear that it is only a part of the historical region of macedonia. the use of that name without any adjectives, especially when accompanied by the use of symbols from greek-macedonian history, arouses suspicion in greece that the territory of three northern greek provinces bearing the same name is claimed. i am not surprised by the invitations that my reporting has produced to take sides unilaterally in favour of one of the conflicting positions of the two neighbouring countries. i remain neutral and believe that both sides should work together to find a solution as soon as possible to deal constructively with their long-standing disagreement. this includes agreements to avoid and reverse all provocations involving symbols or maps. public opinion on both sides of the border, while appealing to the national pride of its politicians, also wants peace and cooperation. without good agreements, there is a danger that macedonia's accession to the european union will be unnecessarily delayed, even though both domestic and greek public opinion wants accession.
the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the middle east. every year, millions of people, especially in africa, are denied the treatment that could save their lives. not because there are no drugs, but simply because they cannot afford them. and that is, of course, a terrible scandal, whatever the exact cause. since 2003, there has been a temporary wto arrangement for countries that do not have the capacity to produce cheap medicines for their own people. it is correct what the commissioner said. in doha in 2003, we had a great victory when we made the breakthrough on this point. the eu also deserves enormous credit for this. we can debate the causes for a long time, but the sad thing is that this system has not yet worked in practice, and so all those people, those millions of people who are not receiving the medicines we so much want and for which we applauded the breakthrough at the time. now you are asking us as the european parliament to give our consent and actually make the agreement permanent. mr president, before this parliament can sign off on this regulation, which has so far proved unworkable, with all the causes and complexities behind it, we naturally want to have firm guarantees. the commissioner and the council have tried to say a number of things. firstly, it is essential that we should seek to make use of a practical arrangement. this simply requires much greater assistance - practical, legal and political - from the countries concerned. we just know that many of them find it very complex to actually use it. my suggestion would be to do what we have done in the trade negotiations: set up a european low-cost medicine team, the european union a-team, so that you can provide, so to speak, direct assistance. not just money, but actual assistance and knowledge of legal matters. secondly, i understand that you have promised that as the european commission you will not include trips+ in bilateral agreements. that would be a very important element, if it is clearly confirmed by the council. thirdly, the only long-term solution is to allow developing countries to take over production. that, of course, is the development angle. that knowledge is there. a number of countries do. look at tanzania. i think that same european a-team could do that again very well. if you go that way, we can sign the papers.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his report. the new financing instrument for development cooperation entered into force on 1 january this year. the millennium development goals would be at the heart of the debate. the time has come to see whether these laws and principles are being put into practice. in the committee on development and cooperation we have devoted a considerable amount of time in recent months to the review of the country policy documents. there has been a lot of hard work in the committees, in parliament, by the staff, by members and by secretariats. we have closely monitored the policy strategies for countries, regions, south america, asia, south africa and we have found that in six specific cases, for a total of many plans, the basis was not adequately laid down in legislation and have therefore returned to it through resolutions. in a number of other cases we have responded by letters and raised a number of issues. the commissioner, in the course of the democratic control process, has also encountered a number of fundamental problems, problems with which you are no doubt also struggling in the commission. the primary objective of the development cooperation instrument is to eradicate poverty and achieve the millennium development goals. that is an overarching objective and we felt that it was not expressed clearly enough in the national policy documents, partly because they also had the old sound of the old plans from the old tradition. i would now like to remind the commission of our hard-won agreement of 20%. i appreciate what the commissioner just said. she says: i am in favour of that 20% being achieved in 2009. mr president, if that is so clearly stated, we trust it. the millennium development goals contracts can be an instrument. the budgetary support is given and it must of course meet the requirements, as you rightly pointed out. but suppose they do and run parallel to contracts on the millennium development goals. so that at least means that you know that government is doing some things in the area of basic education and health care. then you can also correctly and much more clearly count in your 20%. otherwise, it remains a very unclear matter. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that next year 50 million from the thematic line of the development cooperation instrument 'investing in people' will go to the global fund. the global fund is fine, and we support it. last year, it was 62 million. but in practice it means that very little of your money is left for the other purposes all of which are in that law. if that happens two years in a row, you're stuck. i'm asking for attention for that. this requires consultation with the acp partners and the european development fund. but something has to be done, otherwise you are essentially dealing with an empty shell of the thematic side of "investing in people". the european parliament will not hesitate to use its budgetary instrument if necessary. ralf walter is active on that point and - you know him - he is a man of action on that point. but, commissioner, i didn't want to play the max mackie messer from the threepenny opera tonight, because after all, you came in light blue and i came in a good mood, because this is my last speech. and i'd like to end on a personal note. as of 1 september, as you said, mr president, i have been appointed commissioner to the queen in groningen. i would like to thank my colleagues and staff and everyone in the commission secretariats very warmly for the tremendous support i have received from both commissioner michel and commissioner ferrero-waldner. on 28 august i hope to say goodbye to parliament and to see you all again, but for now: you're all doing very well.
on behalf of the pse group . – madam president, i would also like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work on this report on the statistics programme 2008-2012. i think we fully agree that statistics are essential, and how to get the correct data is an important issue. i agree that it is not only a technical issue, as we can see from this debate and particularly from the oral question that has been asked, it is an issue of high political relevance and not only because politicians try to interfere in statistics but also because they try to use such events in making opposition to the governing coalition or the previous coalition, blaming them for not providing correct data. these are both things which we should absolutely avoid. the only solution, in my view, is to have independent statistical offices and guarantees for independent, proper and high-quality statistical data, plus some of the elements that mr karas mentioned: the same basic definitions etc. i have the impression, commissioner, that a lot of work has already been done on this issue by your colleague mr almunia, and some of the things have already been put in motion. i refer, for instance, to the regulation that has been established on this issue and, in particular, to dossiers with proposals for legislation on the governance of statistics and the governance of the statistical institutions, which we are dealing with at the moment. i must say to mr becsey and mr karas that i have been surprised that their political group has not been interested at all in these legislative dossiers that we are dealing with at the moment because, here, we can create guarantees for good governance on the data, and there is no mandate for the commission or for eurostat really to interfere or to centralise data provision. we have to work within the remit and the mandate that exists at the moment and, there, i think the commissioner is doing a good job in trying to use this to the widest extent possible. i hope we can have a constructive debate about this improvement of governance and about these better conditions to be created instead of blaming each other and blaming the other political opposition parties for not properly providing this data. i hope there will be a constructive approach in the future.
i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question. the european union is a political union. in my view, ukraine is clearly falling into that category. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. in short, european commitment. well, that's clearly present in kiev. i learned that from a delegation visit at the end of may. a european-ukrainian handshake that is informative and inspiring. i would also like to congratulate the commission on this. the european road for ukraine is also indicated by the solid report by mr kamiński. i will therefore be happy to support it, because it honestly sets out the european reform requirements for the ukrainian state and administrative institutions. it is an immense responsibility, mr president, of the present ukrainian political elite to rid itself of the evil smell of egoism, both in a material and immaterial sense. this self-cleansing will give the national cause the public support it needs to move towards european union. the european institutions must make a concrete contribution to this looming european prospect for ukraine, especially in this exciting and polarizing election period. the kamiński report is a good example. it is a clear sign that ukraine is on the road to europe. sure, a long way to go. let's make it workable together and go.
we too, mr president, think it important that the commission should be ambitious in concluding a new agreement with ukraine, which, in our view, should be based on far-reaching and further economic integration, but also on extending cooperation in as many other areas as possible. the european union must send a signal that we want to continue to deepen relations with ukraine. if we are to do this properly, it is of course important that something is done within ukraine itself, because the key to the success of this cooperation lies ultimately in kiev itself. that means that we too must exert pressure to restore the political balance in the country itself. what we really need to be striving for or helping to achieve is a kind of historic compromise between east and west. if the political conflict in ukraine is not resolved, i also foresee major problems in the further development of cooperation with the european union. the text of the report is cautious in the longer term, but it does not close the door. it is also very important that we send that signal to ukraine today, again under the assumption that the key lies in kiev itself. it depends on the capacity of that country to reform whether the demand for membership will ever become a real demand. but let us not close the door here today, but let us be realistic. the important thing, as i said, is that kiev develops a reform agenda, that ukraine itself develops a reform agenda, in which not only the fight against corruption and the creation of more transparent structures in that country are important, but also the dismantling of oligarchic structures. finally, two comments. i think that ukraine - and we must encourage this, as mr kamiński's report also says - can play a key role in the region. then we look at the black sea region, where there are many problems around energy, trade, tackling crime, and where cooperation between countries is possible with the support of the european union. ukraine still has a major role to play in this respect. finally, and this is also well stated in the report: ukraine plays a key role in the energy supply in europe in terms of distribution and transport, but also in terms of putting its own energy economy in order. the commission and the european union can play a major role in this too.
president, commissioner, economic growth in the new member states since 2004 has been about 5.3%, 2% higher than in the old member states. exports have doubled. investment is increasing rapidly. these results, which, as mr potočnik has said, have been strongly supported by cohesion policy, are excellent. statistically speaking, the number of poor regions is decreasing. however, regional disparities within the member states themselves are still very high. the report by mrs geringer de oedenberg rightly calls attention to this. and i think we need to be more critical of the efforts made in the member states themselves. too much concentration in central urban areas does not bring the peripheral regions any further. the member states themselves, together with the european union, must also adopt a territorial approach to their cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. much more politically, because we are not, in the end, accelerating economic development and cohesion in poor regions. so a recalibration is necessary. the fourth cohesion report provides the framework for discussing this. the ppe-de will take part in this. we will hold a hearing on this matter in parliament on 8 november. in conclusion, there are good results, good opportunities for cohesion policy, provided we make greater use of synergy at european, national and regional level for the benefit of those poorer regions and oppose the europe of multiple speeds. poor regions must also be fully integrated into the knowledge economy and globalisation.
rapporteur. – mr president, at the start of the vote on my report, i have to inform the house of two issues. first, when the vote was being prepared in the afet committee, all political groups agreed to use in this report only one term for the state which calls itself the republic of macedonia. it is the long sentence ‘former yugoslav republic of macedonia’, without any abbreviation, such as the english fyrom or the french arym. i therefore propose that if parts of the final adopted text include any other terms, those terms should be replaced on the basis of this broad agreement. secondly, the ppe-de group proposed that i should merge two amendments on paragraph 13 into one – my amendment 22 and the pse amendment 6. with this is mind, i should like to move an oral amendment to my amendment 22. as the vote on amendment 22 is due to be taken after the vote on amendment 6, this solution is only possible if amendment 6 is rejected. i should therefore like to ask that the order of voting on the amendments be changed. mr pinior of the pse group said yesterday evening that he would be in favour of this arrangement.
in writing. the macedonia i first came to know in 1962 had many features of previous centuries, with traditional country houses, mud roads, horse and wagon transportation, dress codes, and the living side by side of different ethnic groups. the macedonia of 45 years later is the result of profound developments after that time. i think that the european union made serious mistakes in the 1990s in the inevitable break-up of yugoslavia. for too long this division has been denied, and once it has been recognized, it has been chosen to ignore the remaining ethnic diversity. in some cases the wrong borders have been recognized, unnecessary military means have been used and wrong approaches have been adopted. in macedonia, the damage was relatively limited. as rapporteur, i hope to contribute to peace, democracy, reconciliation and progress for that country. the 558 votes of this parliament in favour of my report represent a step forward towards the earlier promised but hitherto stagnant accession of macedonia to the european union. i hope that in the next annual report we will be able to note that important obstacles to accession have been removed and that the council has started accession negotiations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to take up the excellent speech by mr lévai. it is a good thing that we in this parliament look at the quality of regulations and legislation at least once a year. the rules and legislation are the european union's calling card. it is the framework within which citizens live/work and businesses must operate. that means we have to pay a lot of attention to that quality. how are you doing right now? it's going in the right direction. the commission has taken a number of initiatives. there is an impact assessment board, and it's doing a lot of good work. but that's not enough. i 've said it before . we need more transparency and i would again call for an external expert panel to assess whether the european commission's impact assessments are drawn up according to the right methodology. it's a test, not a bureaucracy. mrs. frassoni always shouts: "you want a new bureaucracy", but i don't want any bureaucracy at all. i just want more transparency, and i think any kind of transparency is a great thing for government. an added benefit: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. an important step in the right direction is that we have an expert panel on the problem of administrative burdens. that is a very good development which can also play a role in the area of administrative burdens. of course, it's very important who gets to sit on that panel. it should not be a parade, a sort of pseudo-parliament, but a small body of experts, not captains of industry, not officials, not politicians, but simply experts who know what impact assessment is, who know what administrative burdens are and who have had a lot to do with it in their national context. the commission has set itself a clear objective: a 25% reduction in administrative burdens is to be achieved by 2012. that is a very good thing, but it must of course be a net objective. that means that from now on a reduction of 25% will indeed be achieved and that new administrative burdens will be calculated and deducted from them, otherwise, of course, the vacuum will continue to be opened. i would like to add one more point to which the commission must pay particular attention. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. the cost of compliance is the cost that businesses and citizens have to pay to comply with legislation, and that's also a huge cost. if we talk about the cost of regulation, we also have to deal with the cost of compliance, which is not being considered at the moment.
madam president, i should also like to begin by thanking all the rapporteurs for the extremely interesting reports. it is very important that parliament pays close attention to this subject and i fully share the commissioner's view that a lot of citizens in europe have the impression that all bad legislation comes from brussels. all too often, too, national parliamentarians say that they cannot help it either, that it is brussels that imposes it on them. we must do as much as we can and as quickly as possible to defuse this. it is the first time that i have spoken on a subject of the committee on legal affairs and i am speaking in this debate primarily because the subject interests me very much. i am a member of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control. in the committee on budgets we approved last year a proposal from me to create a body, a pilot project, to evaluate the administrative burden outside the commission. this means that parliament considered that the internal evaluation in the commission was not sufficient. i fully agree with mr doorn that there should be a body outside the commission which assesses the effects of legislation. the text contained in the budget, which has now been adopted by the council and parliament, should be the commission's guide to action. the committee on budgetary control also drew up a report which was adopted by this parliament in july. we support the 25% reduction target and of course - the commissioner and mr doorn have already confirmed this - we cannot have new legislation coming in through the back door which we have just abolished. it is important that we review all legislation before 2013 to see whether it is superfluous or not. the commission should regularly publish a report or other communication stating what has been achieved. it must be clear what the commission is doing and how we are managing to reduce the administrative burden. perhaps there should be an internal reorganization of the commission. finally, i would like to thank mr verheugen for the excellent cooperation i have had with his services on the preparation of a pilot project adopted by this house last year.
the proposal, as has already been said, provides for the updating and also the consolidation of the existing directives and decisions on the transport of dangerous goods by land. the commission has also proposed a new regulation on the transport of dangerous goods by road. to be honest, i wonder who could resist this now. i cannot imagine that anyone would doubt the usefulness and necessity of measures to ensure that such transport takes place in the best possible conditions of safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. at commission level we have agreed with the majority of the rapporteur's amendments, which are mainly technical. the rapporteur has clearly worked closely with the council in this, and that is generally very efficient for a directive like this. the rapporteur's desire to reach agreement at first reading quickly is therefore to be commended. but the introduction of amendment no 45 has surprised the alde group and is very easy. why not just accept the text as it is in amendment no 16, which we all agreed on? why all the council's requests should be met immediately, even if they have a negative impact on efficiency in the logistics chain. why do you not even want to discuss this with the council? not all member states are in favour of the so-called compromise. what is the rapporteur, mrs sommer, mr jarzembowski and mr simpson to gain by allowing member states to impose a transport mode at random? it should be clear that each mode of transport, in its own way, provides excellent safety and efficiency. why should the market players not be able to determine this themselves? we have already decided this with amendment no 16 and i would therefore ask you to look again at amendment no 45 and perhaps reconsider your position. i thank the rapporteur for his efforts, but i regret that he has been led to re-introduce the provision on the use of regulated means of transport through this back door. i would ask you again to reconsider your position on amendment no 45.
in its communication, the commission, not for the first time, argues that logistics play an important role in meeting all sorts of new challenges, for example in the field of the environment. the role of logistics is of course equally important when it comes to the union's competitiveness. optimising the european transport system, addressing existing bottlenecks and using advanced logistics solutions, therefore deserves priority. action is needed in that respect. how can we improve the efficiency of individual modes of transport and their combinations? that is the question. i would like to make it clear that the expected growth in freight transport requires, in the first instance, the most pragmatic approach possible. in order to accommodate this expected growth, all transport modes must be used to the full. so it's very emphatically not either/or, but and/and. it was a pity that the house's reaction to the communication threatened to become a political debate on whether or not to allow those long heavy vehicles or the ecocombs or the gigaliners, as mr savary had just announced. after much deliberation, an agreement has been reached on a compromise that is as neutral as possible. as a supporter of these big, long heavy vehicles, i would like to say one more thing about it, and that is this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. based on research results, that's my motto. i would like to stress once again that the expected growth in freight transport will require the utmost of us. priority should be given to the existing obstacles for short-term results. we must also overturn the sacred houses, including those that concern, for example, long heavy vehicles, or those that concern, for example, the proliferation of driving bans in the european union, the sacred houses around cabotage and many others. i hope very much that this will be clearly stated in the european commission's action plan. i have to thank the rapporteur for her efforts. i'm leaving in a few minutes, not because i'm rude, but because i have an important meeting elsewhere.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of goods by road is not subject to the same restrictions as those imposed by the community. this transport continues to grow, mainly because it has become relatively cheaper over the years. businesses are increasingly organising unnecessary transport. there are two reasons for this: the extraction of raw materials, the various stages of processing and the sale of finished products take place in very different places, requiring unnecessary transportation between them. the establishment of main ports and other large distribution centres also makes goods travel unnecessarily long distances. in sparsely populated lands with little or no railways, especially in america and australia, huge trucks have been developed, megaliners. they reduce the cost of road transport, but they cause unnecessary inconvenience to everyone else. we should keep such trucks out of europe. the transport of goods must be reduced and the remaining transport needs to be carried out as much as possible by rail or water.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is the task of all concerned to ensure a smooth logistical process. governments optimise the conditions and entrepreneurs devise concepts that respond to market demand. i am pleased that the rapporteur has mentioned this separation and has highlighted several areas of concern. a major topic during the discussion of this report was the long heavy trucks or ecocombs. although national field tests have shown fairly positive results, opinions on these vehicles are divided. i think the compromise is a good starting point for further discussion. i look forward to the european commission's input into this discussion, both in the action plan for freight logistics and in the study on weights and measures which will be published shortly and the results of which are expected next summer. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs ayala sender for her report and i hope that the path we have taken can be followed later this year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are issues which are very much on the agenda at european and even global level today, and it is therefore very good that the commission has come forward with a communication. but we must ensure that the conditions are better and that there are fewer obstacles, and not that there are many more european rules or prohibitions. that's the one we should be cleaning up. i am therefore glad that we have considerably reduced the rapporteur's draft report in this respect. i would like to go into the logistical obstacles. last year we had a discussion here about the naiades report. we fully support the commission, because we also find many logistical obstacles in inland shipping, and i hope that the commission will come to this parliament soon with the first proposals. another logistical obstacle is the limitation of the 60-tonne vehicles. i support the compromise, namely that the member states can decide on the introduction, but i also notice that there are a lot of fables, even gigabytes, about this subject. inspector, you're going to investigate. i would urge you to examine the facts and i would also urge you to examine the international routes. because with mr jarzembowski i say: we must not have these gigaliners in our towns and cities. but on longer routes where there is no alternative, it can be good. so you want to look at the facts? i'm curious to see what you find.
the european commission estimates the total economic value of alcohol abuse in europe at eur 125 billion per year and estimates that alcohol abuse is responsible for 25% of all violent crime. a few more numbers: drinking during pregnancy is the leading cause of mental and physical impairment in children. about 1% of the european population suffers from the effects of foetal alcohol syndrome. that's almost 5 million europeans, and that's when fetal alcohol syndrome is completely preventable. 60% of people who suffer from fetal alcohol syndrome end up in prison or in psychiatric institutions. this afternoon we had a meeting with eurocare, with dr nico van der lely from my country, the netherlands. he said that the number of people treated for alcohol poisoning at his hospital, the reinier de graaf gasthuis in delft, had doubled in five years and that there was a sixfold increase in the number of children between the ages of 10 and 15. especially "coma drinking", drinking until you literally drop, is proving to be popular. in the first half of this year, more than 80 children had to be admitted to the reinier de graaf gasthuis in delft because of excessive drinking. many measures are possible and necessary. price and availability are probably the most important, and of course education and information. the only question is: who can do that best? the commissioner has rightly pointed out that there are very wide differences between the member states. so very often there will be local help in municipalities and it will be the doctors or the member states who can take the most effective measures. the treaty does not allow for much else. it is important to have an ambitious european alcohol strategy, but not to get ahead of the member states. europe must be defined and defined clearly. alcohol abuse needs to be tackled vigorously, especially among young people, and europe must give all possible support to the member states in this regard. i do have great hesitation in announcing legislation which we cannot then bring about, because it does not increase confidence in our institutions. i have already mentioned fetal alcohol syndrome and childhood alcoholism. the commissioner rightly says that this is a european problem. i therefore believe that the member states must take their responsibility in this area and that they must take it at european level. i think they should set clear targets at european level for reducing foetal alcohol syndrome and childhood alcohol abuse. it is also in the resolution. i think it would have been better if it had been more concrete than it is now. but if the member states are prepared to make such an agreement, then at least we will have some concrete results somewhere. because to shout that subsidiarity is important and then do nothing about it is not something i believe in. finally, i am very curious about the results of the labelling. in france, labels now warn against the consumption of alcohol by pregnant women. if we have the results and if it proves to work, i think we should consider such a measure at european level. there are also internal market entities to do that. we are allowed to do that and we can do that. but i think we should only do it if it is effective, and then i am willing to consider it.
president. - ladies and gentlemen, alcohol-related harm is a growing problem. the numbers speak for themselves. 5% of men and 1% of women are addicted to alcohol. 25% of deaths among young people aged 15 to 30 are alcohol-related. child abuse is often traced back to excessive alcohol use. behind these figures there is a lot of suffering. addiction, medical problems, social misery, abuse, it's all well known. less well known are the serious effects of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. unborn children can suffer serious harm. children with fetal alcohol syndrome are doomed. there is also growing recognition of the harmful effects of alcohol consumption on children and young people. alcohol use at an early age can cause lasting damage and adversely affect learning performance and iq. clearly, measures must be taken quickly to discourage drinking among young people and pregnant women. one of the effective measures may be health warnings on the bottle. i therefore call on the member states to come forward as soon as possible with proposals to make health warnings compulsory. as long as there is no european regulation, each member state is free to take measures. warnings on the bottle are effective and research in the united states has already shown this. i also call on the alcohol industry to take responsibility for itself in warning young people and pregnant women against alcohol consumption. better to warn now than face all kinds of claims in ten years. warnings are also a normal part of the social responsibility which the alcohol industry must also have. finally, i call on the commission to come forward with appropriate proposals as soon as possible. it is difficult to understand why tobacco warnings have not been followed up with alcohol warnings. i therefore urge the commission: the commission is therefore proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. it is important that we put public health above the interests of the wine industry.
mr president, at this late hour when the only people in this chamber are the persistent agricultural spokesmen and the commissioner for agriculture - thank you, madam commissioner - milk is perhaps not the most obvious snack we all crave, especially after the previous debate. but we must not forget that we are talking about one of the giants of european agricultural production. milk is produced in every eu member state and the dairy sector accounts for as much as 14% of the production value of european agriculture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the dairy sector also provides us with quality products and a range of regional specialities. general de gaulle saw a link between this great variety of products and the governability of his country. how can you govern a country with 246 types of cheese? he asked rhetorically. what this french comment means for a european union of 27 member states and no doubt thousands of cheeses, we shall not discuss tonight. finally, we must not forget the contribution of dairy farmers to our landscape. so it is a sector to be proud of, but one that has not had an easy time. the temptation is now great to go beyond the subject of this debate in the light of those difficult years and the current market developments. i shall not do so, by way of exception, although most of my colleagues have succumbed to this temptation. i agree with struan stevenson, who rightly wonders how much of the price increase is actually going to the farmers. so back to the subject of the debate: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i would like to draw particular attention to the call for an extension of the school milk scheme. the link between fat content and aid has rightly been removed and it seems to me logical that this extension should focus on innovative and healthy products, also in view of europe's growing obesity problem. the commissioner has already indicated that she is discussing this with the member states, but perhaps she can also indicate when we can expect concrete proposals on this and when, therefore, that package can be expanded in concrete terms. finally, i support the rapporteur's view that existing safety nets should not be completely abolished, even if they are not being used at the moment, but that this should also be a subject for the health check. so he's being prosecuted.
mr president, could i ask that we do not start until the council is here, because i find it quite strange that we have put oral questions to the council, as well as the commission, and are discussing this issue only with the commission. there is no point. could i ask that we stop whatever we are going to do until the council is here to listen to us?
the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. is it possible that the council makes mistakes or is it all-knowing? do you think that all the measures taken in recent years in the fight against terrorism have always been the right measures? and is it really beyond doubt that there have been no disproportionate violations of civil rights? well, if the council is infallible then of course there is no need for an evaluation, but if you believe in possible progressive insight, then yes. i would also like to hear from you in the course of the debate whether you think there are certain measures missing, certain measures which you think we actually need now but which have not yet been taken. are measures now being taken? under european law, infringements of civil rights are permissible, but they are justifiable only if they are necessary, proportionate and effective and if people can also defend themselves against abuse. i would like the council to evaluate all the measures taken in recent years and to examine them against these criteria. can you promise that right now? let me give you some points that merit careful consideration. first of all, on the point of abuse: can't civilians be the unintended victims? i would like to mention, for example, the creation of lists of terror suspects. the question is not just how you get on it, but how you get off it. because suppose your name is on one of these lists. all assets and bank accounts are frozen, but the authorities do not automatically prosecute. so there's no trial where the evidence is involved. the principle of innocence until proven guilty is being abandoned. but i'll tell you what, i can imagine you freezing bank accounts before you tell people, or else that money's gonna fly halfway around the world. i cannot imagine, however, that we will accept that people continue to be listed and therefore punished without any proof of guilt. that is a reversal of the burden of proof in criminal law that is unacceptable. the court of first instance has already stated on a number of occasions that the procedure should be adjusted. on 11 july, it was already judged that the al-aqsa foundation and josé maria sison had been unlawfully listed. i would like to hear from the council what lessons it has learned from these court decisions and whether it is prepared to change or review the decisionmaking on the composition of these lists and also to look at the possibilities for individuals to claim their rights. now about the effectiveness. are the measures effective? let me take the measures on liquids as an example. more than a million people in europe still wash their hands with plastic bags before boarding their plane. they put the 100 ml bottles in there very nicely - they often end up in the waste bin because you forgot what the rule was - and civil rights are not being violated very seriously and abuse is also quite possible. but is the measure effective now? is the council prepared to assess this on the basis of scientific evidence? i'll get to the cup proportionally. are the measures proportionate? it is also an important point for evaluation. let me take the example of passenger data, the agreement with the united states. my group can also imagine that countries want to know who is coming in. the big problem is not so much that too much data is required, but that it can be requested for a wide variety of purposes. the council is always justifying such a measure by saying that all this is necessary in the fight against terrorism. but the data can also be used for other matters "according to us law", as stated in the agreement. so it's theoretically possible that it's not just about counterterrorism, but also about tackling bike theft or bank fraud. is it proportionate to use it for that? are you prepared to challenge this agreement on that basis? the last is necessity. for example, my group was against the storage of traffic data for a period of up to two years, but the majority of this house was in favour of it. but all the data i've seen so far shows that data up to three months in particular is very effective and necessary. are you prepared to investigate whether data stored for more than three months has actually been used? in short, are you prepared to make an evaluation on the basis of the criteria of effectiveness, proportionality, necessity and also to examine whether there is a possibility of preventing abuse? the last point for evaluation is the council's attitude to human rights violations within the european union in relation to the cia's activities. we have done our best as the european parliament and i find it scandalous that we have never heard a comment from the council. you can say what you think, what you think is right and what is not, and what action you want to take. are you prepared to respond to the fava report or will you continue to remain silent?
i think it is important to have this debate today. it is also important that parliament should ask questions about the progress of cooperation between member states in a very priority area, the fight against terrorism. there is a certain doubt whether that cooperation is always sufficient and whether the council always responds adequately to the threat which has been described many times today. the lack of urgency also shows up in the progress made by the council on a number of points. the question of who will succeed coordinator de vries is also important. there has been a gap in that for several months. but there's also the question: where is the council's reaction to the fava report, the comprehensive report of this parliament on the cia and certain practices that have taken place in the fight against terrorism? the cooperation is not always as it should be, despite - and i must repeat this again - the enormous efforts of commissioner frattini, who has just shown himself to be a forceful man. but what he wants and can do is, of course, in part ultimately determined by what the council makes possible. i would like to draw particular attention today to one important point which both the commissioner and the council have raised, namely the aspect of radicalisation and recruitment. we must also look at the best way of combating radicalisation, whether of religious or right-wing extremist origin, at european level, in the form of cooperation between member states. the important thing is how to reach the young people who are vulnerable to this kind of radicalisation. this is a priority for the council, for the commission and will soon be discussed further in parliament. the motives of young people who are sometimes led to commit terrorist acts by radicalisation must be examined. these motives range from dissatisfaction with one's own situation, dissatisfaction with what is happening in international politics, or polarization within one's own society, need for meaning, frustrations with world politics. poverty is sometimes a motive. we need to look at all these motives if we're going to come up with an effective approach. young people in morocco who commit attacks often have a very different motivation than people who have done so in the netherlands, for example the one who killed theo van gogh. we need to work together to find arguments that can counter radicalisation, to create better conditions in which young people are not so easily susceptible to being radicalized and sometimes to violence. keeping the circle of radicalised young people small is a first challenge. this is accompanied by repressive policies: tackling people who incite violence, tackling also virtual networks via the internet that encourage young people to extreme behaviour, but also including groups through preventive policies. this starts at local level, but can also be translated to national and european levels. i would point out that new initiatives have been announced by the dutch government and that a considerable amount of money has also been allocated to find a local approach in the districts to identify young people who may be vulnerable to radicalisation and what may result from it. i would recommend that the commission should look in particular at the dutch experience and how it can be shared with other member states. it may also be possible to encourage some of these activities through the european commission's integration fund, so that there too there is an added value of a european approach. i would ask the commissioner again whether he also sees opportunities to exchange dutch practice with other member states facing the same problems, particularly in the large cities.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am glad that this debate provides an opportunity to look back and to move forward. the central question in this debate is what measures have been taken to combat terrorism and whether these measures have been effective. and more importantly: are the measures not in conflict with the democratic rule of law? today we are voting on the amendment of the rules on hand luggage in air transport. my colleague graham watson has already spoken about this. i hope that will put an end to a controversial measure. the rules on liquids are not effective and are facing a lot of resistance. we must ensure that counterterrorism does not become a political illusion. since the attacks of 2001, a tremendous amount of information has been gathered. but data collection must lead to processing. after the london and madrid attacks, it became clear that the intelligence services had information but failed to intervene in time. the data is there, but the application is still a problem. a book on terrorism and the combatants of terrorism was recently published in the netherlands. from a historical perspective, the book states that the effectiveness of terrorism is limited. on the other hand, counterterrorism sometimes has a profound effect on society with irritation as a result. the terrorists gain from the fact that the combatants of terrorism lose their moral credibility with the population in the fight against terrorism. the new measures must therefore strike the right balance between the rule of law and the effective fight against terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the former terrorism coordinator, gijs de vries, said that no member state wanted a european police or security service. member states want security to remain organised at national level. yet here in europe we try to work together. a related problem is the lack of democratic control of cooperation. the parliaments in the member states monitor their own services, but not cooperation. what is the council's view on the need to keep the european parliament informed consistently and regularly? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such meetings could be held behind closed doors, as in the case of the national parliamentary committees on security. i would like to hear whether the council would be willing to cooperate.
president, democracy, civil rights and the rule of law are extremely dear to me. my life too and, by the way, the lives of my fellow europeans. but to say that there's a trade-off between these two is dangerous nonsense. enemies of democracy must be fought. so these are terrorists, but a threat to democracy is also excessive government power and the disabling of democratic control. we hear statements from the council, and to a lesser extent from the commission, on fundamental rights, human rights and democracy. but they sound a little hollow, because we're seeing a rapidly growing government surveillance of the citizen. every intimate detail of our private lives is now known. but there is less and less citizen control over that government. the government and the council also refuse to be held accountable. i would like to know, for example, from the council what is happening with the so-called high level contact group which is negotiating with the americans on the transfer of our private data. it's always said that these are exploratory talks, but the americans seem to think that we're already ready to sign a treaty. how about it, council? what is the mandate of the negotiators? what's the negotiation? this was discussed in lisbon on 19 and 20 july. why are the national parliaments and the european parliament, the citizens of europe, not informed about this? another example: the recent american law, the foreign intelligence surveillance act. graham watson and i have been asking questions about that. it is a law that allows the americans to monitor almost all of our intra-european communications, phone calls and emails. why does the council say that the council has nothing to do with it? council, do you not have a responsibility to protect the privacy of european citizens? third example: the pnr. we've been over this a hundred thousand times. the ink on the treaty is not yet dry and the only good element that was in it, namely the application of the privacy act to european citizens, is now being withdrawn by the americans. i hear from the commission that a european pnr is going to be introduced, but have we had an evaluation of the results of the american pnr programme? i am very pleased that the commissioner says that there will be an evaluation, not only of the implementation but also of the results of the counter-terrorism policy and of the impact on fundamental rights, because we have needed this for a long time. interestingly, often when you criticize or ask critical questions about counterterrorism policy, you're told you're anti-american. but it is the americans who are asking the critical questions and who have made extensive evaluations in recent months and are calling into question the effectiveness of these measures. europe must not therefore copy the bad policies of the americans. we must have good policies and work with the americans to see what is needed and what is not needed.
i would just like to point out, mr president, that in the last debate the council, which has now left, and the commission were asked a number of very specific questions to which we did not receive an answer. i would like to have a written reply from the council and the commission to my question on the high level group on data protection and on the us foreign intelligence and surveillance act.
mr president, there is a lot to say about this financial crisis, but i will use my two short minutes to focus on three areas where i think we need to take action. the first is the lack of regulation. several members have said this already. complex new products, and particularly the diversification and securitisation of risks, is something which is a key element in this crisis. it was sold to us as a perfect method to get rid of risks, but it is now clear that diversification has also meant a proliferation of risks and of the insecurity that is now everywhere. the second element concerning regulation is that these operations largely take place outside the regulated market: over-the-counter activities and hedge funds, as has been mentioned already. i really think that we have to investigate where these blind spots are leading. i know mr mccreevy does not agree, but i think it is really high time now to look into possibilities of regulation – not to over-regulate, not to panic, but really to conduct a serious study. that is what the commission should do. another element is the lack of information and transparency. this has also been mentioned by several people. i want to mention the ratings agencies as well, and the accounting rules which mrs berès also mentioned – the fair value issue. this is linked to my third point, which is the lack of coordination and cooperation. that is an element which we have seen now in the actions that have been undertaken by the ecb, which correctly provided liquidity but did not have the information and does not have the tools to punish those who caused the crisis. there should be a much closer link between the ecb and its knowledge and the supervisors. a very important element is cooperation and the strengthening and reinforcing of european-level supervision, which really has a grip on these phenomena at the top of the market and these new phenomena. i have mentioned several times that we need such european-level supervision. people then tell me, even if they agree, that you have to wait for a crisis to appear because the sense of urgency is not there. i think now it is high time, and the crisis is there, so now we should act.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. it is therefore good that policy-making is concerned with this. in fact, desertification has two causes: a natural and a human cause. drought as a natural cause can lead to poor soil conditions, especially when combined with human causes such as poor management of agricultural land, poor forest management and poor water management. the risk of desertification is therefore increasing, especially in the mediterranean regions of europe. with many climate scientists predicting a warming climate with a greater risk of extreme droughts, it is good to take preventive measures to limit the effects of drought, such as desertification. i believe that policy should address both the natural and the human causes of desertification. as far as natural causes are concerned, it is important to use the water available as effectively as possible. water retention should be applied where possible and soil drying should be avoided. the latter can be achieved, for example, by ensuring good forest management. good water management is also important. the existing water legislation can also be used in this context. in my own country, the netherlands, there is a national coordination centre which takes action whenever there is a threat of drought and which implements measures at regional level. the framework can be set at european or united nations level, but implementation will still have to be mainly national and regional. i also think that voluntary cooperation between the problem areas to learn how to deal with the problem is an effective way of doing this. this can be done in the form of a knowledge platform with both political and scientific input. the implementation of the high water directive also involves such initiatives and seems to have a positive impact.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the promotion of human rights in countries with which the union has relations is a task which it must carry out in a responsible manner. structured human rights dialogues are indeed of great importance in this respect. that is why it is painful and sad to note that the expert seminar with china did not take place last may. the maintenance of good sino-european relations, however, requires mutual commitment. recent alarming reports from amnesty international, psy, human rights in china and compass direct, for example, have made me question this commitment. so-called opponents, including religious minorities, but also journalists are being sent to psychiatric hospitals for political purposes. the infamous ankang system is a chinese reality, especially in the run-up to the olympic games. that's a bad one. i therefore ask the council and the commission to keep a watchful eye on the human rights situation in the middle kingdom. a harmonious relationship with this strategic partner, the people's republic of china, is important, but not at any price, so that what the rapporteur states in her report, 'that human rights dialogues are an essential part of the union's overall strategy to promote sustainable development, peace and stability', will be put into practice alongside theory.
mr president, the widespread attention to human rights is relatively new. in the past, this attention was mainly from a socialist or a liberal inspiration. the left was concerned mainly with the right to housing, income, amenities, participation, a clean environment, peace and freedom from colonial occupation, not only for those who already have the right, but especially for all those who cannot yet exercise that right or who cannot exercise it sufficiently. for liberals, it was mainly about individual freedoms and the right to enterprise. for some other political forces, human rights were less important. even now, with more agreement than ever before on the importance of human rights, there remains a gap between ideal and reality. the most prosperous and democratic states tend to support, for the benefit of the rest of the world, regimes which can guarantee the supply of gas and oil and which seek to destroy movements at home which conflict with western interests. the two-pronged approach is an invitation to dismiss justified criticism of some other countries as useless, arrogant meddling. the valenciano martínez-orozco report rightly points out that the endless pursuit of human rights dialogues with unwilling governments cannot be an objective, nor should such dialogues be bogged down by a lack of transparency and democratic control. there is broad agreement on this report. the amendments to it come mainly from three flemish members of the its group. the shortcomings they have identified are largely justified, but their wording and omissions give the impression that they are not seeking solutions but are complacent about the lack of results. it is an illusion that europe can better isolate itself from the rest of the world in order to guarantee peace, prosperity and security in its own territory. we will not support any amendment which does not contribute to equality and democracy for all and to solidarity with the poor and hungry of the world.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a very good one. fossil fuels are finite, and the use of renewable energy reduces greenhouse gas emissions. it also provides the necessary diversification to reduce our dependence on single sources of energy in the future. i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's wish to use biofuels only in a responsible way. the eu should work towards international agreements to use sustainability criteria for biofuels in the wto context. the type of biofuel we use and how it is grown and used are very important. biofuels are only sustainable if the entire cycle from producer to user shows optimal environmental performance. this means that both the production and the combustion of biomass will take place in a sustainable way. production involves, for example, replanting of harvested crops. the emission standard for combustion should not be less stringent than for other fuels. in addition, more far-reaching strategic choices are needed because of undesirable effects such as the destruction of primary forests for production purposes and competition with the food supply. in particular, in poor countries, the production of biomass is putting pressure on agricultural land and raising food prices. what policy is the commission pursuing to counteract these undesirable effects in practice? in conclusion: the rapporteur's aim is to take account of the different situations in the member states. one member state has more potential for solar energy, for example, while another has more potential for wind energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the production of the products concerned. a support system is most effective when it is tailored to the renewable energy sources with the greatest potential, and that varies, mr president, from one member state to another.
president. - mr thomsen has written an excellent report on renewable energy and i wholeheartedly support her commitment and ambition of 25%. climate change is a huge challenge, but fighting climate change also offers great opportunities. opportunities in the field of new technologies and clean and sustainable energy. in addition to established technologies such as wind turbines and solar panels, there are likely to be energy sources such as one kilometer-high wind, solar mirrors, tidal energy, wave energy, geothermal energy and algae-based fuels. it is an exciting development and i welcome it wholeheartedly. investing in renewable energy has more benefits than just reducing co2. it reduces dependence on third countries, it breaks the dominance of the big energy giants and it leads not only to enormous innovation but also to new jobs, some 1 million jobs. that, ladies and gentlemen, is all very well, but it does require good policy. three points are important. firstly, the need for disengagement; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. it may take a long time before a wind farm can be connected to the electricity grid, and that is unacceptable. i hope that the proposals put forward by the european commission this week on this point can be strengthened a little more, that the pressure of the energy monopolists can be resisted and that the proposals can be prevented from being watered down. secondly, the biofuels. there are good biofuels and bad biofuels. everyone seems to be focusing on the bad biofuels these days. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. some biofuels have a very negative impact on biodiversity and food prices. but under strict conditions, biofuels can make a good contribution to a more sustainable energy supply, but then there must be guarantees that tropical forests are not cut down to fill our cars. i support the paragraph in britta's report in which she says that 10% biofuel blending should be linked to clear criteria. i have made proposals in my report on the fuel quality directive and i look forward to your reactions. finally, the subsidies. unfortunately, subsidies for the production of fossil fuels are still being provided. the european coal sector has received some eur 50 billion in product-related aid over the past 10 years. kerosene is exempt from excise duty, a disguised subsidy. the trend is now towards generous subsidies for renewable energy. that's not the way. we must end fossil fuel subsidies as soon as possible. instead of providing subsidies, we should oblige energy companies to make a large part of their production sustainable. then there's no need for subsidies. we must be careful not to trade the oil addiction for a new subsidy addiction.
president. - the three reports which are being presented again at third reading as the third railway package deal with very different matters. the most urgent of these is to improve the ability of train drivers to cross national borders instead of having to be replaced by their foreign colleagues. from the railway staff's point of view, all three versions were open to improvement. nevertheless, my group has been able to follow the compromises of the rapporteur, mr savary, and we will also agree to the third version. in the field of passenger rights in crossborder rail transport, we have missed an opportunity. one of the areas where the european union can do useful work is to protect as much as possible rail passengers crossing borders from the negative effects of competition, unnecessary fragmentation of companies and national short-sightedness. the european commission has put forward a good proposal which will ensure that ticket sales and information, as in the past, will provide a good long-distance service. competition and cost constraints are increasingly limiting supply to individual member states and their immediate surroundings. only in germany are these facilities well regulated and it would be good if all railway undertakings followed suit. a majority in this parliament has moved the emphasis considerably on the proposal of rapporteur sterckx. much more attention is now being paid to compensation for delays in domestic rail traffic and much less to the continuing deterioration of international rail traffic. the commission is now responding to complaints from passengers who are unnecessarily losing time by having to buy new rail tickets after crossing the border by saying that it had a good proposal but that the european parliament has made that impossible. since no better alternative is available at the moment and we support other parts of these proposals, we will also accept this final result. we shall continue to insist on supplementing it with the unfortunately missing improvements which were at the heart of the original proposal. the third point remains the most controversial for my group. not only now, but also in the two previous railway packages, the rapporteur jarzembowski is advocating more competition and market operation. this starts with cross-border freight transport but eventually covers all rail transport including domestic passenger transport. the lower working conditions in road and air freight transport are thus also being absorbed into rail transport. my group believes that the reverse should have happened, namely better protection and regulation of road and air transport. we do not share the view that competition is more likely to solve the problems of cross-border freight or even passenger transport than good cooperation between national railway companies. we shall not support these proposals at third reading either.
mr president, in my previous contribution to the debate on this third railway package, i indicated that i would not be happy with every outcome of this dossier. we are now a few months further along and i conclude that the agreement reached with the council represents a constructive step towards further completion of the european railway market in important respects. the creation of the internal rail market regularly faces practical problems, some of which are being solved by this package. it has been uncertain for a long time whether parliament did not want to move too fast to allow an agreement between council and parliament, or whether it wanted to tackle problems which did not exist in practice or whose approach would create new problems. i am thinking in particular of the degree of market opening in national passenger transport and the scope of the rules on the certification of personnel. the final agreement between the council and parliament strikes a good balance between addressing existing problems and presenting a sensible future scenario in terms of extending the scope of the current agreements. the commission has also taken account of the fact that the market access dossier is based on existing contracts. this avoids mandatory breach of contract and the associated claims. the idea of the levy to finance public service obligations is acceptable under present conditions. in contrast to the agreements on market access and certification, the agreements on passenger rights are in principle the broadest possible. i think that is a good thing, given the agreements that have been reached in the sector. the agreements reached are largely a reflection of voluntary agreements in the sector, and i welcome that. as a keen cyclist, i am particularly pleased with the provisions on the transport of bicycles by train. i hope that they will encourage a concrete contribution to the solution of the congestion problem. it is a good example of the commodity in passenger transport. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts and congratulate them on the result achieved. their efforts have helped to bring the common european railway market a step closer. i would also like to thank the german presidency and commissioner barrot.
i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr president, and also vice-president vidal-quadras roca, for their efforts to bring this whole complex third railway package to a successful conclusion. president. - some rapporteurs have had to suck it up because they would have liked to have achieved more, but i think the result is quite justifiable. it is a positive development that there are now basic rights for all rail passengers in europe. liability and the right to transport for people with reduced mobility are now much better regulated. the fact that additional rules are being made compulsory in long-distance transport is also a good thing and that there are rules which do not fit in, for example, urban and regional transport; so it is good that an exception has been made and that they are going to be covered by a different regime. mr president, we have had a very good debate on the liberalization of rail transport. not only with the council, but also here in parliament. i'm satisfied with the outcome. compulsory liberalization of international rail transport, but not of national rail transport. the differences between the member states are too great to make national liberalization of internal communications compulsory from europe, because regional networks which are subject to pressure are vulnerable and must be able to be tendered out by hand. that too is a form of market operation. i'm happy with that result. it's prudent market action, but i think it's appropriate to these complex networks. you indicated that you would like to carry out further research into further steps towards liberalization of domestic passenger transport; i would ask you to include the private procurement of networks and the extent to which this contributes to market functioning in your further studies.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. toys are not products like any other, they are designed for the most vulnerable consumer group, and it is therefore perfectly clear that we must have the highest standards of child safety in relation to toys. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would first like to point out that in both cases the products in question were not authorized for the european market under european law. toys with lead-based paint are, of course, unlike in the united states of america banned in europe for a long time. toys with magnetic or other dangerous parts that could come off have, of course, been banned in europe for a long time. so what we have here is not a problem of the law in force - although i will come to the law in force, which also needs to change - but it is a problem of the enforcement and respect of the law in force. there is no 100% safety in the products we use every day. the best legislator in the world cannot guarantee that there will be no mistakes in production. the best legislator in the world cannot guarantee that there will not be a problem somewhere in the supply chain, which is now organised worldwide. the best legislator in the world cannot prevent fraudulent and criminal acts. i would remind you of the case in greece where three people died because of the use of a defective steam iron. this iron had not only the european ce mark but also a special german safety mark. however, the device was not safe, and that was because it was counterfeit. no legislator in the world can do anything about it. that is the responsibility of the manufacturers and it is the responsibility of those who have to ensure that the manufacturers comply with the existing rules. these are the market surveillance authorities of the member states. there is no european system of market surveillance. this is a matter for the member states alone. i would like to point out that we are dealing with a problem which is very closely linked to economic globalisation. we are dealing with globally organized supply chains today. we are dealing with companies which are under cost pressure which leads them to put their suppliers under cost pressure and to offer them ever lower prices. the risk is very great that this will be to the detriment of security in some places. that is why we have always said that the more international and extensive the supply chain, the greater the responsibility of companies to ensure that the existing rules are respected at every stage of the supply chain. this was not the case, for example, in the case of lead-based paints in toys of the american manufacturer. here a chinese supplier supplied a paint which it should not have supplied. that's the truth of the matter. the first is the responsibility of enterprises: they are responsible for ensuring that their product complies with the european regulations in force. the member states are responsible for ensuring that market surveillance is effective. and then we as european legislators have to ensure that our legislation is up to date and that potential risks are identified and addressed in legislation in good time. this is why the commission began more than two years ago to make a fundamental revision of the existing toy directive. the toy directive is one of the oldest directives to follow the so-called new approach. it is clear that the toy market has changed dramatically over the last 20 years and this new directive will therefore address a whole range of newly identified risks and hazards and ensure that hazards are avoided by very strict rules for example on the use of chemicals in toys. the directive will be submitted to the legislator before the end of this year. we also presented to you at the beginning of this year a whole package of measures to strengthen market surveillance and to better protect the ce marking. let me say something about the ce marking at this point: the ce marking means that the manufacturer, whether a european manufacturer or a manufacturer from outside europe who wishes to sell in europe, gives a full guarantee that his product fully complies with the rules in force in europe. the manufacturer guarantees this with the ce mark, that is the ce mark. in a number of cases, the manufacturer is not allowed to use the ce marking on the basis of self-declaration and self-testing, but must have it certified by a third party, namely whenever the malfunctioning of the product could pose a risk to the user. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the products is not compromised. the functioning of these bodies, which we call conformity assessment bodies, can be significantly improved, and we have made the appropriate proposals, which are before you as the european legislator. in the case of toys, we now have a very difficult question for the commission and for you as legislator to decide: do we want to move to a situation where every single toy that comes onto the market is certified by a third party, or do we want to leave it to the manufacturers to take the guarantee and therefore the liability with the use of the ce mark and i must add that under the rules in force today, manufacturers must at all times prove by extensive documentation that they have used the ce mark lawfully or do we want to go a third way, perhaps by defining in the new toys directive certain types of toys for which we will require certification by a third party? i do not want to conceal my deep sympathy for this final solution. so let me give you an example: what do we do with all the toys that have chips in them? chips, when kids put them in their mouths, are a dangerous thing. it must therefore be ensured that such parts of toys cannot, under any circumstances, endanger children. if we don't want to take away the game boy from the kids -- and i don't think anyone has the intention of doing that -- then i think the only way to do that is to mandate third-party certification at this point. the commission's thinking is in that direction and i hope that this debate will give me some idea of what parliament thinks on this matter. the last point i would like to make is a request to producers and consumer organizations: producers must be aware of the fact that even such a high cost pressure does not relieve them of the responsibility to fully control every single part of their production process and supply chain. the more international production and supply chains become, the greater the responsibility of the companies operating on the market. the consumer organisations would also do a great deal of good by raising awareness that cheap does not always mean good. this is not only a question of safety, but also a question of quality, because how many times have you seen it - especially with toys that the child unpacks under the christmas tree - that the child plays with it once and it is already broken. it was cheap, but not good! cheap doesn't always mean good, and cheap doesn't always mean safe. this means that consumers must be aware that the price of a product is linked to its quality and safety. and this is a matter of growing concern to me with the low-priced ideology that is spreading in at least some member states. i can summarize by saying that the european legislation we have today is certainly better than what we have in other parts of the world, that it can be improved and will be improved, and that the strictest standards must be applied and must be applied where toys are concerned.
member of the commission. madam president, it is really an honour and pleasure for me to stand here with vice-president verheugen to address parliament on the critical issue of dangerous products and product safety. the commission is united, as you see, in tackling this issue and happy to give you its position from two complementary points of view. our open society and our open economy offer citizens choices that were unaffordable and/or unimaginable only a generation ago. this is major progress, but it comes with a challenge, as we have seen in recent months. i refer, of course, to concerns about the safety of products and, in particular, children’s toys. citizens need to know that their safety is underpinned by sound rules, efficient and vigorous authorities and responsible business. i will start this brief exposé with a few words about law and its enforcement, because it is crucial. i believe that the current regulatory framework for consumer product safety in the eu is fundamentally sound and will be reinforced by the pending commission proposal on the new approach directives. i refer in particular to the general product safety directive with its rapex system referring to a fundamentally sound framework. we already have the legal framework to deal with dangerous products made in china or anywhere else. the challenge of ensuring an internal market of safe goods lies primarily in the effective enforcement of the present legal framework, and, if we read the directive again carefully, this enforcement power belongs to the member states. the member states’ market surveillance authorities and customs controls have a duty to ensure that dangerous products are not placed on the market, or are withdrawn or recalled. the member states must have in place effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements, and it is written in article 7 of the general product safety directive that it is really the responsibility of the member states. of course, enforcement by public authorities is only complementary to businesses respecting their legal and ethical obligations, as commissioner verheugen stated just minutes ago. it is the responsibility of manufacturers, importers and distributors to make sure that they place only safe products on the market and take necessary measures where they become aware of a risk to consumer safety. just a few words about recent product recalls, which, of course, are our major concern. on the issue of these recent dangerous product recalls, the commission would be more worried by silence than by activity, and transparency builds trust. that is why i can only encourage the national authorities to enhance their surveillance and to inform the commission about dangerous goods and not just to keep silent for one reason or another, such as not wanting to bother people before christmas or just trying to tackle the problem in silence. of course, questions remain. are operators notifying problems sufficiently quickly, and are their internal audits up to scratch? how can we ensure earlier and more effective intervention by the market surveillance authorities and better monitoring of product recalls? nevertheless, the recent recalls have shown that improvements can and should be made on the entire product supply chain, encompassing, amongst other things, product design, suppliers of contractor management, manufacturing process controls and finished product testing. i would like to talk for a while on relations with china and the united states. the commission also questions whether china is doing enough. during my recent visit to china, my main message was that europe does not and will not compromise on consumer safety. i stressed that and obtained the commitment of the chinese authorities on specific progress targets. there is no argument from the market which could compete with the safety of products and the safety of people’s lives. i stand prepared to bring them to task should they fail to deliver. in october, i expect the report from the chinese authorities, and i am really doing everything possible to assure them that i will not hesitate to take measures if they fail to deliver. constructive cooperation with china has already produced results – withdrawn export licences of certain substandard products. i have to say that i spent four days in china and, within these four days, there were recalls of the licences of the two biggest toy manufacturers. this puts europe well ahead in comparison with other developed countries facing similar issues. as you know, on 16 september, the working group established by the us president issued a report with quite similar measures to those europe has already taken on board to secure the safety of goods. we are also in contact with the us consumer product safety authorities and policy makers with a view to mutually reinforcing our messages to the chinese government. i have already talked with the chairwoman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), ms mccarthy, about the results from their visit to the united states. next week, when i am in the us, i will check how we could cooperate. the aim is to give a crystal clear signal to the chinese. adequate safety guarantees will not work as a bargaining chip in relations with one or another economic block; they are a sine qua non for access to either. i would like to conclude with the next steps which we envisage. the commission is committed to making every effort to ensure that toys sold for the christmas season will not lead to unpleasant surprises, and this commitment is very clear. maybe we need a kind of christmas pact with producers, with importers, with all the authorities in the member states, which should ensure vigorous implementation, and consumer organisations. the commission will update parliament regularly on developments, in particular on the conclusion of the stocktaking exercise reviewing the strengths and weaknesses of the consumer product safety mechanism currently in place in mid-november, and following the forthcoming eu-china summit at the end of november. at the beginning of next month, on the third, there will be a gathering of all the national authorities in brussels at which we will compare our views on how the directives on safety are implemented everywhere. we have already had extensive talks with all the toy makers, including mattel, involving the sharing of practices. as i recently informed the imco committee, this is no time for knee-jerk reactions. together with vice-president verheugen and a number of fellow commissioners, we will ensure the necessary, proportionate and appropriate response to the issues that have surfaced with regard to public confidence in the governance of global product safety. although commissioner verheugen was really quite exhaustive in his exposé, let me say that as regards revision of the so-called new approach package, taking special care of the health and safety of european citizens requires us to preserve the specific and successful system established by the general product safety directive. by the end of this year, we will produce the first of the reports we are obliged to produce every three years according to the directive, and you will see that this mechanism is really an effective one based on community, solidarity and proportionality. i am convinced of your view as well in asking to put safety before one-size-fits-all streamlining and to consider favourably the draft regulation as originally proposed by the commission. we need also to be aware that this is not happening for the first time. if you compare how we have been through all the unpleasant events which happen on the market regarding food safety, we can really enhance our institutional comparison and do our best on product safety because in this globalised world we cannot just be an island. we need to exercise our control and to assure european citizens that the attention from community authorities is the same everywhere and complements the efforts of the member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i am pleased that there are even two commissioners here, so that is a very forward-looking approach to a problem that has recently arisen with mattel. this problem is of course twofold. and that's also shown by the fact that it's less serious when it comes to china, and that mattel has also made a mistake. this problem has a two-fold purpose, as i said. first, i think - and i repeat clinton - that politicians should think first and then act. president clinton said that at a campaign rally last year, and that we should not shoot immediately into stress like a toy when a button is pressed. i too am sometimes guilty of the fact that when something happens, we politicians get stressed out and immediately want tougher measures, stricter regulations. i think we should think before we act. fortunately, we did that with our resolution. then i come to the second point, why this mattel problem has a positive consequence as well; we are going to think very specifically about the importance of the ce marking, a safety mark, and how we can improve it. i fully agree with what commissioner verheugen says about the fact that 100% security and safety will not be achieved, but - i agree with mr gebhardt - we must strive for that 100% security. if it is a ce mark, then there is a 100% liability. this is of course very important for the consumer. if there is a ce marking, then the consumer knows that if something goes wrong with the product i have bought, i have a right of recourse to the manufacturer or importer. the resolution on which we are voting tomorrow, mr president, deals mainly with this. i think we have prepared an excellent resolution; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the controls are carried out in a fair and efficient manner. we cannot leave it to the individual member states to start checking in third countries. i think that a coordinated european approach in cooperation with the member states is necessary for this and i hope that the commission will work towards that. secondly, mr president, consumers must be clear about the quality labels. we have the ce marking and we are also calling in the resolution for a safety mark for toys, preferably to replace all existing national marks. it is not that there is a choice of labels from which the consumer cannot see through the trees and therefore cannot make a clear choice, because then i think the objective is not self-evident. something has to be clear, less is better. i think that's the most important thing. i hope that we can then introduce these labels on a voluntary basis, because the market will force it. if we are going to make it compulsory, we as a government must monitor it and i think that the market, the consumer, will choose safety and a clear label above all. if that happens, i will be very happy with my group. we are also looking forward to the revision of the toy directive, and you have already said a few things about that.
the european union and china are important trading partners. this means that china can be held responsible for the quality of the products supplied. the european union cannot accept unsafe clothing or unsafe toys. the union must never allow its economic interests in china to prevail over the interests of european consumers. this debate shows once again that these consumers are not only served with low prices, but much more with quality and safety, as commissioner verheugen has also pointed out. this is especially true when the safety of children is at stake. i do not want to look at the importers alone in this debate. i'm definitely looking at the chinese manufacturers, too. security is not a topic that is just a matter of products reaching europe. safety thinking should be a guiding principle at the earliest possible stage in the production chain. after all, security is not a luxury or a nice extra, not here and not in china. i call on the council and the commission to convey this message to our chinese trading partners in a clear and forceful manner and what commissioner kuneva has already said in particular gives me full confidence that this will happen. i wish her a lot of perseverance in this difficult task.
it is good that we in parliament are making our voice heard in the debate in the media, because product safety also affects our citizens and our children very directly. i am here, mr president, with a positive attitude, because international trade contributes to greater prosperity, here and elsewhere in the world. china is a major trading partner. that is why we must invest in good contacts and a fair trade relationship that is good for china, but also for our citizens in europe. we cannot and must not tolerate the products of our trading partners not meeting the safety standards we have laid down in legislation. about half of the warnings for dangerous imported products are for chinese products. not just toys, but toothpaste, body lotion, beds, paint scrubs, dog and cat food, even pacemakers. we must not only improve our regulations and controls here in europe, but we must also make a real effort to ensure that safe products are produced in china and in third countries. that is of course the responsibility of the producers themselves who must not only go for the lowest price, but it is also the responsibility of our commerce commissioner, mr mandelson. i very much appreciate the presence of two commissioners here, but would you also ensure that commissioner mandelson puts product safety much higher on the agenda of the trade talks, because that is where we can enforce measures and that is where we have to show our teeth. of course we must also provide technical assistance, but product safety must be an important part of trade agreements such as with china; if necessary, we have a stick behind the door, namely sanctions. so, commissioner kuneva, use the tough hand we have in our trade relations, involve commissioner mandelson in some of this, because unfortunately he has not shown any sensitivity to this subject so far.
in writing. since our party, the dutch socialist party, attaches great importance to renewable energy sources and believes that much more extensive efforts should be made in this field, we did not vote against this report. however, there are also some very negative things. firstly, we strongly reject nuclear energy as a sustainable renewable energy source. we also oppose the idea of liberalising energy markets at european level. finally, we believe that solar, wind and hydroelectric energy are better alternatives to biofuels.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i appreciate the space that is given to each member state to make its own mark on eu policy during the presidency. however, i insist that this space be filled only with due regard for the continuity of the current eu policy agenda. i share the concern expressed in the oral question we are debating. the european union has for some time been aiming to conclude an interregional association agreement with mercosur. this objective is reflected in the bilateral strategic partnership with brazil. firstly, the other mercosur countries rightly feel that the european union is failing them. the union seems to prefer a bilateral agreement to an interregional agreement. i would therefore ask the commission what initiatives it is taking to alleviate these concerns in countries such as argentina, uruguay and paraguay. trade relations with these countries are of equal importance to the union. a second reason for my concern about mercosur is the stability and political direction of this partnership. in recent years, it has become clear that brazil, as the natural leader of the continent, is seeking to make its mark on the world stage. this is reflected not only in an assertive role within the wto but also, for example, in the desire to have a seat on the security council. this has made brazil less aware of its own role on the continent. mercosur is a customer of only 10% of brazil's exports. it also seems less willing to invest in other mercosur countries. brazil thus indicates that its role in the region has outgrown its role in the world. the other side of this brazilian policy is the threat to the stability and political direction of mercosur. with the withdrawal of brazil, venezuela is trying to take the lead of mercosur and thus of the entire continent. using oil money and anti-western rhetoric, chávez is trying to increase his role in the region. the venezuelan government is pursuing a protectionist, inward-looking economic policy, which threatens to renationalize important economic sectors. there is no room for free trade and the opening up of markets. i can assume that the council and the commission are aware of the impact of these developments on the countries of south america, and certainly on the economic and trade interests of the union in this region. i call on the council and the commission to use the reality of the bilateral partnership with brazil to reverse the trend i have just described. the union should encourage brazil to use the new political weight of the bilateral partnership with the eu to show new political leadership within mercosur and the continent. this is to prevent the isolationist policies of countries like venezuela and bolivia from spreading further across the continent. finally, mr president, i would like to make a comment on the content of the partnership. i believe that the eu should focus its partnership with brazil not only on issues such as bioethanol but also on the smooth running of the doha round. the role of brazil has been too much dominated by its own successes in agriculture, while it is not really prepared to compromise on nama and services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. - i'm all right. i also understand from commissioner figel that the commission wants to take over this. it is indeed a question of (a) training, academics, engineers and (b) bringing innovation from the knowledge institutes and companies to the market. the knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-knowledge-know-know-how-know-know-how-know-know-how-know-know-how-know-know-how-know-know-know-how-know-know-know-how-know-know-know-know-know-know-how-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know-know not just sticking to training but to innovation that bridges the european divide. mr paasilinna has spoken about this with great passion and poignancy. a second point: it is not a bad thing that we are opting for a limited set-up and a limited financial base now. if the formula succeeds, we will also see from the business community that this public partner will withdraw its support, whether or not with the structural funds, together with the public partner in the member states. the predicate eit must be desired. excellence is the world's top, and you want to be part of it. there's support for that, too. if you listen to the universities, to the nano-industry, to the emerging climate-related industry, there's support for that. i also ask, listening to the many pleas for wroclaw, whether a choice has already been made for an administrative centre in a good location in the middle of europe? i hear there's enthusiasm for it in more places. finally, mr president, there is a real niche, there is a gap between what we have in the previous instruments and training, between the various programmes. it must be put down with courage and ambition. we need strong leadership. we really need to start something from that and then in 2010 we'll say: indeed, a good step, an investment that pays off in the future.
mr president, another new institution, that may well be the conclusion of this evening. in addition to the european research council and the technology platforms, the joint technology initiatives, eureka, the cip, fp7 and the gco, we have a new knowledge institute. the added value is innovation, which is lacking compared to the united states, japan and china. the idea behind this is that there are plenty of good ideas and scientific insights in europe, but they are not developed into concrete products. the question, of course, is whether a new institution can fix that. the question is also whether smes can still find their way between all these institutes of knowledge and research. the lack of innovation may be due to the complexity of legislation that impedes innovation rather than to a lack of institutions. nevertheless, the new institute with its knowledge innovation communities can contribute and i hope that the eit can make a good contribution and excel in the field of climate policy, because there is a lot of renewal and innovation needed in this area. i wish the eit, despite my misgivings, a good start and a successful future.
the time is ripe for concrete steps towards a european external energy policy. it is not for nothing that the report by mr saryusz-wolski in particular emphasizes the nabucco project. significantly, our energy commissioner, mr piebalgs, called this gas pipeline 'the embodiment of the existence of a common european energy policy'. yes, words must be followed by action. we therefore welcome the appointment of mr josiah van aartsen as eu coordinator for the nabucco project. the recent british and austrian missions to potential gas suppliers for nabucco, turkmenistan and azerbaijan also bear witness to european action. the positive reactions from ashgabat and baku are in any case a window of opportunity. for the nabucco project to continue successfully, two things are essential. firstly, there must be harmony between the current consortium holders. in short, the austrian project leader omv must immediately stop its persistent attempts to take over the consortium partner, the hungarian mol, in a hostile manner. the new nabucco coordinator will have a pressing task to perform and, on behalf of the eu, mr van aartsen will also have to be alert to further russian infiltration attempts into this important energy diversification project. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. the result will be a fragmentation of the european energy market; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european institutions must never let it get that far.
i would like to thank the commissioner for coming this morning and for coming back to this debate, which has started late, but i would like to thank her in particular for her proposal to abolish compulsory retirement for the coming season. it has complimented us on our speed, but it also shows that the commission is able to react relatively quickly to market developments, which are now marked by shrinking grain stocks in the eu. at the global level, stocks are also expected to reach historically low levels by the end of this season. so a supply-control instrument like compulsory set-aside, introduced in '92, doesn't really have a function anymore. it is therefore logical that the commission is now proposing to abolish this obligation. it is also logical that the commission should maintain the system of setaside and merely reduce the compulsory rate from the current 10 to 0. this keeps the discussion pure. after all, the health check is only the time to talk about a possible change in the existing arrangements and structures. i also understand that if we agree to this proposal and the council also decides quickly, we may break a record for rapid legislation. this too cannot be a wrong signal to citizens and especially to farmers that the eu can also take swift decisions where necessary. but one thing is still very important to me, mr president, not as an epp speaker but as a cda member of this house from the netherlands. there are also other sectors where some flexibility seems appropriate in the current market situation. the dairy sector, for example, is experiencing a strong increase in demand and europe may not be making the most of its potential. the trans-frontier trading of quotas which are not fully milked in certain member states may be an option there, or a larger quota increase of a few percentage points on 1 april 2008. in conclusion, mr president, i would therefore personally call on the european commission to show the same diligence in other sectors, where necessary, as it has done in the cereals sector.
mr president, in a world where we are increasingly confronted with regional conflicts, where there are great disparities in wealth and where there is growing mobility, managing migration flows will become increasingly important and at the same time difficult. is the union capable of taking its responsibility, with a comprehensive package, when it comes to migration, legal and illegal? we've been talking about it for a while. the push factors that drift people, the pull factors that tempt people to leave, the importance of shelter in the region, the often inhumane conditions in which people are held, the intended burden sharing between member states, the return of illegals, the lack of opportunities for legal migration, the risk of brain drain as well as the demographic changes that await us as a union. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to support the implementation of the community's policies. i would like to thank commissioner frattini for this. on thursday, you again presented your objectives with great enthusiasm at the conference shaping migration strategies, which i organised with other colleagues. mr president-in-office of the council, i admire the statements made by your colleague, mr socrates. the countries of the european union have a historic responsibility towards those who are now travelling in the opposite direction. you, as president of the council, have shown far-reaching ambitions. and yet, reality shows us that the eu is still a long way from taking on a global responsibility. in many member states, the debate on migration is totally polarized. the distinction between asylum seekers and economic migrants, often illegal ones, is not made. integration issues dominate the debate. social security systems would be at risk, and if we're not careful, the average migrant will be equated with a terrorist. an open, honest and transparent debate is all too often hardly possible. unfortunately, this sounds like a one-off because of the extremely slow decision-making procedures in the council, when the council decides to go for harmonisation, but one ends up with the lowest possible minimum standards. if concrete measures are decided upon, they are decided on the basis of the lowest common denominator. and yes, i'm an impatient person by nature, i'll just say that. the reality is that many member states lack ambition. the lack of solidarity is shocking and i mention frontex, but there are many examples of this. when will the member states show that they are long-term thinking, that they are no longer driven by fear, that they are no longer guided by a critical article on the front page of a newspaper and by the next elections? we can't do it with just fine council conclusions. so my question is, council president, how are you going to make a change happen? is the president-in-office prepared to give this parliament co-legislative powers in anticipation of the new treaty with regard to the new legal migration directives such as the blue card? that, mr president-in-office, would be the right signal.
i would like to read to you, mr president, a report on research funded by the european parliament. it says: one can reasonably conclude that the number of people who died at the european borders has increased significantly since controls were extended to the external borders in 1995. in essence, mr president, it is not that the number of people seeking to enter europe has increased, but that the borders are being much better guarded, so that people are taking much more difficult and dangerous routes. the report also states that: the european council's proposals will probably increase human costs because of the intensified security and surveillance orientation. i would very much like to hear the commission and the council's reaction to this. i think it would be good not to depend on those kinds of researchers, but we really need to start collecting data on the fatal crossings ourselves. do you agree with that and who should collect this data? i am not advocating, mr president, that there should be no border controls at all, but i am advocating that there should be more legal immigration opportunities. i would therefore like to complement the commission in this respect with a proposal for a blue card. the blue card: the name refers to the blue in the european flag, but it seems to be all about the stars. it's a kind of ticket to the higher education and that's very important, but it deserves to be supplemented. i am glad that the commission has said that it is going to do so. i look forward to these proposals with great anticipation, because i believe that they are a necessary complement to the proposals which have been made so far.
in writing. i have abstained on amendment no 8 in this vote, because while i recognize that the problem of brain drain from developing countries to europe is very big, i do not trust the its group's motivation for introducing this amendment. it is about preventing highly educated people from leaving their own countries en masse, and thereby causing economic damage, but it is certainly not about preventing immigration to europe by definition.
in writing. we have voted in favour of amendment 8. in general our views are very far away from the group which tabled it, especially in the case of refugees, immigrants and ethnic or religious minorities. its tries to block the admission of refugees who are in danger, and, on the contrary, we try to help those victims of suppression, catastrophes, and poverty. so we understand very well that the majority in our group doesn't like to support its amendments on migration. unlike the situation of refugees and traditional forms of immigration, in the case of the proposed attraction of highly skilled workers the eu member states are creating a problem for their countries of origin. people who are skilled in countries like india, south africa or brazil are highly needed there for the necessary development. we now see that such problems are even arising inside the newest eu member states, romania and bulgaria, who are losing their medical and engineering people at a rapid rate to more wealthy countries. privileged countries and companies are stealing the brains of those people. as we don't want to support this brain drain, we voted in favour of this amendment.
it is almost two years since this parliament decided to set up a temporary committee of inquiry. a decision that was passed despite strong opposition and substantiated objections. two years later, the objections of that time are still valid. we are discussing two reports today, mr marty's report and mr fava's report. that last report added nothing new to the then well-known report by mr marty. the council of europe report was nuanced and cautious in its accusations against the member states. unfortunately, that could not be said of the report in this house. it is a progressive insight that both reports are being debated today. fortunately, this progressive understanding of cooperation is also taking shape in the fundamental rights agency. the conference of group chairmen has rightly called for good cooperation between this parliament and the council of europe. where fundamental rights are at stake, cooperation is required, because the protection of fundamental rights is of great importance. if that is the aim of investigating the activities of american intelligence services on european territory, then the council's efforts must be directed to that end. can there be any agreement in the transatlantic relations on the fight against terrorism or will it remain unilaterally imposed measures? in all measures to combat terrorism, rights are often under-emphasized. after two investigations, it is time to look ahead and work towards restoring equal relations with the united states. i would like to hear from the council how it is making concrete efforts to repair relations. we are not going to continue to press the united states to clarify whether there were secret detention camps on union territory or to try to prevent a repetition of this. finally, a question to the president. in the debate on 14 february i asked whether it was possible to indicate the cost of the temporary committee's inquiry. so far, nothing has been released. mr president, can you arrange for a financial report to be produced alongside the research report and perhaps also give the council of europe an idea of the cost of mr marty's research? mr grawronski is right. this is about spending taxpayers' money.
mr president, a few remarks on behalf of my group. it is a pity that today we have to see that the council does not give a real response to the questions put in the report by mr claudio fava last january, also on behalf of this parliament. what has the council actually done with the findings, both ours and those of the council of europe? is there really no consultation to prevent the practices described in those reports from happening again? we are more positive about the commission's reaction. the commission has started to evaluate the anti-terrorism measures and the way they are being implemented. i very much welcome the announcement by the commissioner just now on what can be done to prevent planes from landing in european airports in the future, carrying people who are being illegally transported elsewhere; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the next point is, of course, that we are pleased that a terrorist coordinator has been appointed again and we wish him every success. we were a little surprised by the sudden departure of mr gijs de vries who never seemed to be really impressed with his own function. i hope that the new coordinator will do so, that his position as coordinator will be strengthened and that in the future the new coordinator will be able to answer the questions put by this parliament if he wishes. the report by mr marty on the possible secret prisons in poland and romania. i share the comments already made here about the fact that that last report is based on anonymous witnesses. mr marty also wants to explain what the criteria are at the council of europe when you can quote anonymous sources, so we are not very happy with the way mr marty has dealt with it. a number of people have been put on the stand and to date no new facts have emerged. i think it is time for mr marty to say whether that list of names can be deleted again, especially since two of our colleagues are mentioned on that list. i said that a while ago when we spoke to mr marty in committee. and then one last point. it is of course important to make it clear to citizens that the practices that have taken place in european union countries, such as the abduction of people by secret services from outside the european union, cannot take place any more, that it is not possible for the cia to operate in europe without national governments overseeing it. the americans seem to have a different set of rules than we do. the recent examples of the americans' refusal to extradite people or to comply with requests for extradition from both italy and germany are another indication that we apparently had different standards. these two examples give us a good idea of the way in which the european union and the united states work together in the fight against terrorism. do the americans want to strike the same balance when it comes to security and human rights?
i would like to join the previous speakers in this. the member states have acted collectively, both in the council and in nato, so there must also be collective accountability as the council; you must not hide behind the argument of competences and subsidiarity. it is not a question of scapegoating two specific member states. it's been said time and time again that there is no conclusive legal evidence. it doesn't have to be, because first of all, we have a witness, mr. bush himself, who said, yes, there are renditions, yes, there are black sites. in fact, we think it's a great idea. moreover, the facts have been proven in court cases in both germany and italy, in addition to all the other facts on the table. the european parliament is not a court of law - mr frattini is right about that - but the member states have a legal, political and moral duty to be accountable, not only to the courts but also to the citizens. can the council, can the ministers, can the citizen look them in the eye and say: human rights violations in europe are not going unpunished. because that's what this is about. the allegations are extremely serious and if the council thinks that there is nothing at all to the truth, then the council must refute it. if there is any truth to it, then the facts are serious enough to warrant investigation. finally, i too join those who say: extradition between the united states and the european union, yes. but not only the suspects who point the finger at the united states, but also when the european union countries ask for the extradition of cia agents.
the council of ministers has already adopted a resolution on the situation in burma. especially in the current crisis situation in which the country is, that sounds like a cruel lie. the junta represents decades of abuse of power and mismanagement. it is not surprising that she is very frugal with statistics. in the meantime, the majority of the burmese population is suffering from a double exploitation. indeed, a double exploitation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in fact, the words of diplomats in rangoon these days were: "burma has become a chinese province". in northern schools built by china, mandarin is the first language and beijing time is the official local time. madam president, all in all, the burmese and chinese leaders are seemingly inseparable. i therefore call on the council and the commission to address beijing equally forcefully, in addition to the first, the burmese authorities, on its shared responsibility for the suffering of the burmese.
in writing. a new drama is unfolding in burma. the junta has chosen to confront thousands of peaceful protesters. this is very regrettable, because it is admirable that the people themselves have taken the courage to defend themselves without outside help. i am in favour of the unconditional release of daw aung san suu kyi, u khun htun oo, ko min ko naing and all other political prisoners and of rapid democratic reforms. the european commission should make the best use of the emergency funds available under objective 1 of the instrument for democracy and human rights budget to provide adequate support to independent media, human rights activists and ngos in burma. a further tightening of the already existing economic sanctions seems inevitable. i call for joining the british and american measures and imposing strict restrictions on trade and financial transactions with burma. the european parliament should send a delegation to burma to assess the situation there itself.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the many colleagues who have contributed to this document. seven years ago i was co-rapporteur on the directive we are now discussing the evaluation of. all this time we have been drawing parliament-wide support, except for a few dissenters who, as you will see, have tabled amendments. we have had many and sometimes heated discussions, for example on the sharing of the burden of proof, but fortunately we have never lost sight of the common objective and i hope that you will see this report as a joint project. in 2000, we voted by a large majority in favour of the directive which can rightly be described as revolutionary. discrimination was prohibited throughout europe in the labour market, social security and housing and equal treatment was made compulsory. i was, and i'm extremely proud of it. it was a good job done by the commission, the council and the european parliament. but that does not mean that reality has changed radically. there is still a lot of discrimination. in recent years, the number and severity of discrimination and racism have actually increased. unemployment among migrants is significantly higher in most countries than among the rest of the labour force. there's more racist violence. legislation is very important in combating discrimination, because it also has a normative effect. it is a symbol of what the european union stands for and how we want to deal with each other and what cannot be tolerated. legislation also gives people tools to seek redress against discrimination. the european commission is now very busy checking whether the member states have properly transposed the european agreements into national legislation. i have also spoken to commissioner špidla about this this week and i see that the commission is of good will and in good consultation with the member states it wants to see the legislation implemented. i really commend the commission on that. but i cannot entirely escape the impression that there is a certain amount of pepper in it, a certain amount of agency. these laws should have been implemented in 2004. it is being shielded with sensitivities and difficult details, but this commission said when it took office that anti-discrimination policy would be at the heart of its policy and you are already halfway through your mandate. i absolutely respect what you have done so far, but i hope you will start to take a harder look at the member states. it's much needed. less than half of the countries have fully implemented the directive. for example, in many countries the definition of direct and indirect discrimination, of intimidation and of the burden of proof has not been properly translated. there are also a number of member states which, although prohibiting discrimination in the labour market, consider it a step too far to prohibit discrimination in the supply of goods and services. yet there are many problems there. take education, for example. according to the new eu fundamental rights agency, children from roma families are often wrongly placed in schools for mentally handicapped children. or look at housing; apartments are regularly advertised with the remark that the apartment building is free of foreigners. that cannot be accepted. the prohibition of discrimination, including outside the labour market, must be implemented immediately. mr president, a law is only effective if citizens know their rights, but according to eurobarometer only 35% of those questioned think that there are anti-discrimination laws in their country. even a lower percentage say they know what to do when they have been the victim of discrimination. how will the commission ensure that the law becomes a reality in people's lives? the directive includes an obligation to inform people, but how will the commission do this? president. - even if people know that there is a law, the road may still be full of holes, because sometimes there are demands that are problematic. in some countries, for example, the period for lodging a complaint is very short, for example only 30 days. the rest of the procedure, on the other hand, can sometimes be absurdly long and extremely complicated. infringements of anti-discrimination policies should be addressed through effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. all that is well and good in that directive; that's what we agreed on. yet very few countries have adequate penalties. maybe it's time for a positive note. the good news is that almost all countries now have equal treatment bodies. that is an important point, and in many countries it is not just about racial discrimination, but it is about broader grounds. i applaud that. but unfortunately not all bodies have the funds to carry out their tasks and i ask the commission to take this into account when assessing the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation; can the commission comment on this? president. - the next item is the report (doc. i'm proud of the legislation. progress is being made in implementing national laws, but it is not yet sufficient. many countries have not yet done so fully. but even if they have done so in the strictest sense, we still have to ensure that people are also informed about their rights, because if people do not know what rights they have, they will never be able to get justice in the end, and that is extremely important in combating discrimination.
president. - mr president, we are making laws here in the european parliament, but laws alone cannot eliminate racism and xenophobia. statements by politicians and other opinion leaders contribute to a climate of hatred and intolerance, in which discrimination is commonplace and so the law remains a dead letter. i would like the european commission to be as vigorous in denouncing discrimination in europe as it is in denouncing violations of market rules, for example. we must protect human capital in europe as well as monetary capital. if we can tackle bill gates, we can certainly tackle corporations and governments that discriminate. we know that 14 governments are still not complying with the equal treatment directive on certain points, but the commission seems to be in no hurry to enforce the rules and is giving countries far too much time to comply with the rules. that law should have been implemented years ago; bill gates wouldn't get away with it. in the fight against terrorism and crime, we must not push our boundaries either. some measures are exclusive to certain groups and appear to legitimize discrimination. for example, stop and search practices, profiling methods, etc., etc. i am glad to see that the previous government, for example, wanted to introduce integration measures in my country, which were subsequently banned by the courts because they were discriminatory. among the amendments, i noted one, amendment no 4, which states that the protection of minorities and the enforcement of anti-discrimination legislation is a national matter. if there is one thing that is not national, it is our common european values, and it is therefore europe's prerogative to ensure equal treatment for all citizens of europe, because that is the aim of european integration and the market is only a means to that end. finally, freedom of religion is also a great good and a fundamental right, but it should not be abused to justify discrimination on the basis of ethnicity. for example, a catholic school cannot, under the guise of religious freedom, reject children of a certain ethnicity because they actually prefer a white school. conversely, criticism of islam is not automatically racist. finally, mr president, the laws are important and it is very good that we have this law, but we are all here to ensure that the climate remains such that discrimination no longer occurs.
i would like to thank mrs buitenweg, the president, for the excellent work she has done on this report. whether it is discrimination and racism in the labour market, in sports clubs or in schools, on all fronts it is a violation of the values we stand for in europe. what we need is an integrated approach at all levels, european, national and local. legislators, politicians and victims of discrimination themselves have an important role to play in this. we must make european citizens aware of their rights and of the means they have to assert them. i would urge the commission to take up its responsibility and ensure that the equal treatment directive is implemented swiftly and adequately. the directive is a step in the right direction, but its effectiveness depends on the member states' implementation. i therefore ask the commission to show the much-needed moral leadership that barrosso himself announced earlier in 2004. in 2007, the year of equal opportunities for all, discrimination is still a major issue in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore join the call on the commission to extend the measures to all possible forms of discrimination.
president. - thank you, mrs kauppi, and congratulations on the report, but i should like to turn now to the commission. the commission, while regularly demonstrating its commitment to gender equality by word of mouth, has again failed time and again in practice to translate its good intentions into concrete action. in fact, instead of taking measures to reduce gender inequality, to combat poverty among women and to help women solve the daily problems they face, the commission's policies often worsen their position. a good example of this is the so-called flexicurity and the relaxation of the right to dismiss. if the commission's proposals in its green paper are implemented, it will be women who will suffer the most, who are already often working on temporary contracts on a temporary basis and for relatively low pay. it is women in particular who have a lot of problems with things like pension building, health care costs and combining care and work. and what is the commission doing? instead of offering women, and workers in general, the security that would make their lives a little easier, the commission wants to create even greater insecurity. we note in this report on inequality between men and women that there are still very large differences in 2007. the fight against this should be given much greater priority, not only in words but also in deeds. gender equality should be automatically integrated into all commission policies. i think it is very sad that we have to remind the commission of this again and again.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for an excellent and very balanced report. several points have already been made. as a member of both the committee on women's rights and the committee on agriculture, i would like to focus on the situation of women in the agricultural sector. the first thing that stands out is the invisibility of many women working in the agricultural sector. 40% of agricultural employment is filled by women, but many official statistics, including those of eurostat, commissioner, look only at female workers on the one hand and female managers on the other, and overlook the category of cooperating partners, whereas this is the largest category of female labour force, particularly in the many family farms in north-west europe. these women make a considerable contribution to the management of the company and often also to the expansion of the company's activities in the countryside. i therefore call on eurostat to make this large group of women visible in official statistics. i call on the commission to take account of this large category of women in its policy. furthermore, it is precisely the category of cooperating partners that in the daily practice of some member states is faced with the necessary problems, for example in the accumulation of pension rights, access to social security, problems in the event of termination of business or divorce, and access to sick leave or maternity leave, although i am glad that action is being taken in the netherlands on this point. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the 'you deserve your pay' project, which in my country, with the support of the esf, is seeking to identify these obstacles for those partners who are cooperating. i hope that the commission will take the conclusions of this study into account in future policy making so that we can maintain a strong european agriculture and a vital rural area with these indispensable female workers.
mr president, i note with great regret that citizens’ rights are clearly not at the heart of the new treaty. unfortunately, the charter of fundamental rights has been sacrificed to the dutch government’s fear of a referendum. the charter of fundamental rights must be legally binding in full and for all because the charter of fundamental rights is the application in practice of our shared values. so, what does an opt-out mean? is it an opt-out from those shared values? or, does it mean that poland and the british government simply pay lip-service to those values but then deny their citizens the means to enforce their rights? what does an opt-out mean? are we not creating a dangerous precedent here? let us ask ourselves, will future countries, future member states, have the same right to an opt-out? if turkey, a country that i very much want to join the european union, asks for an opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights, will it be granted the same right? the other issue is that, between the constitution and the treaty, an additional, lower standard of data protection has somehow been created – a lower standard that applies to the area of the common foreign and security policy. i predict that in the future the member states will try to circumvent data protection rules by labelling, for example, counter-terrorism measures as common foreign and security policy instead of police and justice cooperation. finally, i would ask the commission and the member states to consider, as soon as the treaty has been signed, acting in the spirit of the new treaty and involving the european parliament as a full co-legislator on matters of justice and home affairs, and rapidly closing the democratic gap that we have been living with for so long.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. even cancer patients are not allowed to leave the area. israel says they live in a hostile entity. only food, medicine, a few humanitarian supplies are coming in. but people live off more than flour, lentils and medicine. the israeli definition of humanitarian goods is absurdly restrictive. medical equipment parts are not allowed in, the water main can't be repaired. there is a constant threat of israeli disruption of energy supplies. the economy of gaza has collapsed, the population is unemployed and desperate, there is no money left. malnutrition is starting to show. this blockade breeds despair, anger and hatred, not peace. there is an unacceptable humanitarian crisis in gaza. the demand for aid is growing and the cost of aid is also rising because of the blockade. the member states should therefore increase their financial support to unhra and the other organisations on the ground. the european commission has already taken this step, and some member states have also done so. the european parliament also voted yesterday to increase aid. my group urges the council to support this decision. but help alone is not enough. the presidency will remain here tonight, discreetly. but the european union can no longer assume the moral responsibility of providing aid but not taking political action against the blockade. on behalf of my group, i therefore call on the presidency, the council and the european commission to urge israel to end the blockade immediately. in gaza, a population is being collectively punished. that's illegal under article 33 of the fourth geneva convention. moreover, this method is unworthy of israel. the european union should say this to israel instead of remaining passive, precisely because the union is an ally. this gives meaning to the association agreement with israel. only by acting against the blockade does the eu take the human rights clause seriously.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the basis of the proposals contained in the report. the american peace negotiator dennis ross advised us at the time to provide very practical help to the palestinian people in their precarious existence. a network of reliable, politically independent ngos is needed. the council and the commission, to what extent do you see real possibilities there, both for the west bank and gaza? in the meantime, i believe that the current internal and external crisis in gaza is rooted in the actions of hamas. it invariably delegitimizes the state of israel and legitimizes violence against israelis and so-called dissident palestinians. the recent brutal murder of rami ayyad, a palestinian christian of only 30 years of age, underlines the plight of this minority in gaza. i hope that the council and the commission will pay attention to and support the christian minority in all the palestinian territories.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i should also like to thank the rapporteur for his work. european citizens want to know how their tax money is spent. the publication of the names of beneficiaries of agricultural subsidies is essential for the transparency of european policy, especially given the enormous share of these subsidies in the eu budget. but, more importantly, such publicity can be the beginning of a much-needed, really fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy. when the subsidies in the netherlands were made public in 2005, we found that a disproportionate share went to a small group of rich people. we give large subsidies to multinationals and large landowners, while thousands of ordinary farmers are barely making ends meet. first of all, there should be a maximum amount of grant that one person or company can receive, and not eur 300 000 as recently proposed by commissioner fischer boel. my proposal is: no more than an average annual salary. most subsidies are intended to provide income support. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it is also important to make public where member states have poorly functioning control mechanisms so that farmers and their interest groups can appeal to public authorities if they are harmed. of course, this is only the beginning of a whole series of transparency initiatives by parliament. the distribution of the structural funds should also be made public. i hope that parliament will support this report as widely as possible, because it would make our very primary task of monitoring so much easier. a transparent agricultural policy is a first step towards a fair agricultural policy.
i would also like to thank our colleague, mr president, for this thorough report, which at first sight seems to deal with very technical rules, budgetary rules. but what we are really talking about here are rules which could affect the functioning of our farmers - the legitimate and indispensable producers of our daily food. i want to go over a few of them without starting a very broad discussion about the health check or whatever. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. but, you know, let's just put that aside. first of all, i would like to support the commission's proposal to be able to punish the member state in question more effectively in the event of shortcomings, to be able to cut short, possibly by suspending or reducing interim payments. i think the commission should look not only at the seriousness and the nature of the non-compliance, as it wrote, but also at its duration. for example, in the case of long-term infringements, the commission would have to increase these discount rates again each year. we must also ensure that the new rules we are introducing do not lead to an increase in administrative burdens. finally, the sensitive issue of the announcement of the beneficiaries of the european agricultural fund. my country is already doing a great deal of this and the commission is now proposing to introduce this throughout the eu in order to ensure transparency and the legitimacy of this expenditure. i can support this effort, but i do so with two reservations which are also contained in amendments. first, the disclosure of such information may affect the rights of the persons concerned. we must therefore ensure adequate data protection to prevent data from falling into the wrong hands or being used for the actions of, for example, radical animal activists, a phenomenon that has already been faced by several eu member states. and finally, the commission believes that this proposal will also improve budgetary control. to a certain extent that may be the case, but i think that the introduction of national declarations on the budgetary resources managed at national level is even more beneficial for budgetary control. so i would like to use my last second to call on the commission and the council to speed up the introduction of these national declarations.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). the proposals on the inclusion of the sector in the greenhouse gas emission trading scheme, the agreement with the united states and the revision of landing rights are some examples. the report by mr jensen adds a new dimension to that list: the organisation of aviation on the ground. it concerns the services offered, but also the sound production and the available capacity. as far as ground handling services are concerned, we must indeed await a new evaluation by the commission involving all the member states. i share the suggestions to the commission for future considerations. i'm a little more critical of the capacity clauses. the text calls on the commission to do great things. the master plan should be given a central position in addressing the ground-based aviation capacity problem. a master plan does indeed give a good overview of the existing situation and can identify bottlenecks. i do not think it is desirable, however, that the commission should, with such a plan in hand, force or impede the member states in taking certain steps. a master plan should, above all, promote international cooperation between all those involved, so that, in good consultation and with respect for existing powers, comprehensive solutions to specific and existing bottlenecks can be found. i am glad to see that some of the paragraphs contain useful comments on this. i therefore conclude, mr president, that i can support mr jensen's report. i want to thank her for the pleasure of working with you.
in writing. the distribution of seats in the european parliament among the member states is not based on objective population figures but on past commitments and on the win or loss of negotiations. as a result, the large countries france, italy and great britain always had the same number of seats despite their different populations, as did spain and poland. the same applies to greece, portugal, belgium, the czech republic and hungary. some countries are under-represented, like the netherlands, which in 2000 was foolish enough to settle for fewer seats in parliament in exchange for more votes in the council. we support the rapporteurs' proposal because it is closer to a fair distribution than previous proposals. we reject any amendment which would favour any less fair distribution or which would make a distinction between 'citizens' and other inhabitants in the calculation by country. we support amendments which link the allocation automatically to the population of the member states in future. we reject any future reductions in the number of seats per member state if they are not due to population decline but to the 750 seat limit or to the search for space for electing part of this parliament on transnational lists. we shall vote in favour with that reservation.
draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy. mr president, i think that one minute for two opinions is very short. anyway, i'll try to keep it as short as possible. pesticides are useful and necessary, and without them it will be difficult to feed six billion mouths. however, much remains to be done to reduce the harmful environmental and health effects of pesticides. the introduction of new products on the market is a long-term and increasingly costly process. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are not used to finance the creation of new jobs. the industry is increasingly focusing on the big five crops: rice, grain, corn, soybeans and cotton, because they can earn a lot of money back. but of course it is important that small farms also have good protection and the committee on industry has made some good suggestions to that end. the committee on industry also makes some good suggestions for introducing incentives to produce more sustainable products. that is also very important. i have one more comment on the use of pesticides. the mandatory buffer zone of 10 metres from surface water is not a good idea for some member states. i therefore welcome the amendment tabled by the pse group on this point. surface water is now one of the test criteria for approval and member states have the right to establish a buffer zone for resources themselves on this basis. all in all, i think that parliament's position is well balanced and workable.
in the debate on pesticides, mr president, i have always tried to adopt a realistic and balanced attitude between the interests of the environment on the one hand and the interests of producers and consumers on the other. i should like to go into some of the aspects of the reports before us. one of the proposals is to base policy on reducing consumption. i am very sceptical about this. you can reduce the total amount of pesticides, but often the most common pesticides are the least dangerous. the risks remain virtually the same. i see a lot more in policies based on risk reduction. the netherlands has been applying this since the year 2000 and it has been shown to reduce environmental risks by 86%. another negative effect of reduced use is that fewer pesticides are available, which leads to more rapid development of resistance. another point is the establishment of buffer zones around watercourses. the environment committee has approved an amendment to create a 10 metre buffer. for a country with a lot of water, like the netherlands, that's a problem. that means that 35% of the agricultural area cannot be irrigated. i would like to conclude by saying that not only is a norm important, but also that it is of undeniable importance to enforce it. at the moment, this is lacking, as evidenced by the exceedances of standards that we regularly encounter in products intended for consumption. even in the european parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. the big question is always, if we in europe take certain measures, what impact does that have on our competitive relations with the rest of the world? if we are too strict in europe and cannot impose the same rules on the rest of the world, then that means that we can consume products in europe that we are not allowed to produce here and that seems to me to be a wrong situation. the essential thing is, of course, always to continue to evaluate the harmful effects. but we cannot exaggerate. and i agree with everyone who says that we should focus on risk and not on reducing quantity. the 10 metre buffer zones will also be disastrous for the netherlands and should be removed from the regulation. the last point, mr president, is to inform the neighbours. if something's approved, why do the neighbors have to be informed? that is a completely unnecessary regulation.
mr president, when i leave my village, i am in the middle of a unique agricultural area. the green heart between big cities like amsterdam, rotterdam and utrecht. it is still green and agricultural, but the 10 metre buffer zone proposed by the environment committee would make farming in this area virtually impossible. and it's agriculture that keeps that area green. i took the test on the sum last week, but i could barely find any land between the many locks that were 20 meters wide. so, anyone who knows the netherlands a little bit knows that the green heart is not alone in this. dutch agriculture is characterised by many locks between the meadows. this means that the 10-metre buffer zones for the netherlands amount to the loss of 800,000 hectares of agricultural land. that's 35% of our agricultural area. i would therefore urge my colleagues not to support this proposal, also in view of the agricultural production needed in europe and in the world, as already said by the chairman of the committee on agriculture. that does not mean, however, that i do not share the objective of protecting nature and public health. i say to the colleagues that we all share that ambition. i just think that ambition can be better achieved with a risk-based approach and risk reduction. the alternative - a reduction in consumption - may sound simple enough - a 20% reduction overall - but it does not offer the best protection for the consumer, because it only looks at quantities and not at the final effect, the final risk. in this context, i also find it difficult to understand the painful arguments of the liberal group - which opts for both a 20% overall reduction and a risky approach. my last two points, mr president. the authorisation system: i will simply say that three climate zones are preferable to 27 member states, taking account of national circumstances, of course. finally, i would ask the commission not to overlook small farms in all these major areas of disagreement.
president. - mr president, i have been able to see a great many representatives of the automobile industry over the last few months. i don't think there's ever been a report that's been lobbied so hard. the automobile industry has tried to prevent or at least delay the introduction of measures to reduce co2 emissions by all possible means. it seems that they have persuaded a large number of my colleagues, including the rapporteur, although fortunately the committee on the environment was aware of its role. let me be clear: the automobile industry has to thank itself for this commission proposal. attempts to reach a voluntary settlement have failed miserably. it turns out that only the setting of mandatory standards works. and to complain that it all has to be done so quickly, i think it is rather hypocritical, because the industry has known for years that these measures have to be taken. we must take drastic measures to protect the environment now. we owe it to ourselves and to future generations. i therefore call for a vote against amendment no 42, tabled by mr callanan and mr davies. the amendment aims to increase the maximum co2 emission limit and to move the agreed date from 2012 to 2015. this is putting commercial interests ahead of environmental interests and we cannot allow that to happen. mr. davies, what are you doing to us now?
mr president, road transport is a major source of pollution. in 2005, transport, cars and trucks, accounted for 27% of total greenhouse gas emissions. if we want to tackle climate change, we can't bypass the auto industry. without action, emissions will rise and not fall. unfortunately, the automobile industry has failed to take the initiative. years ago, the car manufacturers themselves made a covenant to reduce emissions. the industry has built better and safer cars in recent years. there was a lot of progress on this. but unfortunately, the efficiency of engines has been seriously neglected. the 140 grams target for 2008 will therefore not be met, and certainly not on a voluntary basis. unfortunately, to achieve efficiency, legislation is needed. and the legislation should aim to reach the average emission of 120 grams in 2012, not in 2015. a long-term target of 80 grams per kilometre is necessary because we have set ourselves an ambitious target for 2020 and it must also be reflected in the automotive industry.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me first make two preliminary remarks. one is that, obviously, this subject of statistics is not a very sexy subject and is always placed at the end of the agenda. but what concerns me a bit is that there are politicians, meps and others who often like to complain about the provision of statistics. but then, if there is an opportunity to really improve something, they are not really actively involved in making the situation better. the second remark is that i hope the commissioner, at least, will appreciate that we are having this debate. ms bowles and i have said that, for us, it is not really necessary to have the debate. but it is important to underline the fact that you have done something on statistics, and that issue deserves some attention. so i hope you will not blame us for keeping you here at this hour. let me, then, congratulate you on the very concrete measures that you have taken vis-à-vis these problems with statistics, which have appeared several times in recent history. i know that you had to do this in the political room for manoeuvre that is granted to you by the council, because we are aware that the european commission cannot oblige member states to establish independent statistical offices and prescribe to them how to work and how to deal with figures and data. ministers and meps who are the loudest and firmest in complaining about the lack of reliability of the figures of others are also the ones who do not want you to mix in their business and infringe on their autonomy and their way of dealing with statistics. this is the problem you have to deal with. but, in this context, i think it was wise of you, commissioner, to take a pragmatic, bottom-up approach, to focus on peer reviews and a code of practice, and to reform the governance structure of the statistics system by creating a new high level governance board, which ms bowles was speaking about, and by reforming the existing european advisory committee on statistical information in the economic and social spheres (ceies), which dealt with economic and social statistics, into a more streamlined and smaller advisory committee with a broader mandate. in ms bowles’ and my report we have tried to improve this even more, and to reinforce and strengthen the approach of the commission. at the same time, we have also made sure – in accordance with your proposal – that these two new bodies in the european family can function properly and with more independence from the commission and eurostat. this may not have been completely in line with the commission’s intentions; however, i want to express my appreciation to the director-general of eurostat for very generously accepting the fact that we took away his voting rights in the system that we designed. i also want to express my appreciation to the portuguese presidency, and to ms cordeiro, for the efficient way she chaired the council working group and negotiated with us a first reading agreement on this issue. this was a very efficient and very time- and bureaucracy-saving procedure. so, mr hans-peter martin, who has also asked for the floor, can see an example of how we can deal in a very efficient way with this type of co-decision procedure. let me very briefly give some of the elements of the statistical board, which i will do in writing. if you read the dossier, you can find where we made the changes, so i will not repeat this here but will stick to my wish that these two bodies will really bring some consciousness and some improvement in the way the statistics systems function, and will help us to really have reliable figures and base our economic activities on reliable data.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr barón crespo, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the new treaty will allow the european union to move forward. the union is becoming more decisive and more democratic. the european union is back on its feet. the eu can now fully concentrate on its substantive task, once again with an agenda ranging from the further development of social europe to a better coordinated foreign policy. that is also the best way to bring europe closer to its citizens. in my country, the netherlands, there has been much discussion about the nature of the treaty now approved and how it differs from the constitutional treaty rejected in a referendum in our country. the conclusion was that the differences were such that a second referendum was not necessary. the new treaty does not have the constitutional character of the original constitution and so we do not need a second referendum. so it becomes a simple parliamentary ratification. the reforms now decided upon have our full support, because, without substantially altering the balance between the member states and the european institutions, great progress has been made, particularly in the area of the rights of the european parliament. a larger union requires different and broader rules. i hope that all the member states will now press ahead with ratification so that we can all start working on the new rules in 2009 to further complement the substantive role of the union in all areas where our citizens have expectations.
too many gifts were given away behind closed doors in lisbon to agree on the reform treaty. italy will have an extra seat in the european parliament, bulgaria will have the cyrillic 'euro', poland will continue to block the decision-making process for a number of years, austria may ban german students from its universities. this trade in cows is medieval and contrary to our desire for greater transparency in the union. but we can be satisfied that after years of debate there is at last an agreement tout court. because this treaty is better than the current situation. it is not a beauty prize, but it does bring democracy to europe. the european parliament and national parliaments will have more influence, giving european citizens more direct influence on policy. the need for a common energy policy and a common foreign policy is now being met. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a good one, but it is not enough to make the euro more attractive to consumers.
in writing. the european parliament has not today responded to the wish of environmental fundamentalists to establish unworkable rules for the sustainable use of pesticides. the environment committee's proposal to ban the use of pesticides within 10 metres of the waterfront was the main stumbling block. for a water-rich country like the netherlands, this would have disastrous consequences for managers of public space and recreational land such as golf courses. the result of the vote is a compromise between environmental protection and workable rules for governments and businesses. we have a shared responsibility to eliminate risks and, of course, the 'less is the better' approach to pesticide use, but the rules must be realistic and workable. if alternatives are available, they must be used, but it is wishful thinking to ban all use of pesticides by law and to think that this has no impact on our economy and society.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, every year the following ritual takes place with regard to the agricultural budget: the commission adopts the draft budget, then the council briefly without much argument on many lines, the committee on agriculture, supported by the committee on budgets, restores those lines and then we begin the discussion on the basis of the commission's note of amendments to establish the budget for the next year precisely. why the council has to keep on making these reductions is a mystery to me, because we have been discussing this since the treaty of amsterdam on the basis of the commission's note of amendments, because then we would have the latest figures available. i think we'd better stick with that. the committee on agriculture has raised a number of lines: we have to make sure that we have a good food supply, and we have to make sure that we have a good food supply, and we have to make sure that we have a good food supply, and we have to make sure that we have a good food supply. we are grateful for the pilot projects and for the preparatory action initially approved by the committee on budgets.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the 2008 budget contains some new elements which show that again. but we also need a more modern budget, one that is in line with the knowledge economy. solidarity with the people. the social democrats have called for more money to be allocated to aid to palestine and kosovo. that is essential, however complex. europe must also show solidarity on other issues. support is needed for the global health fund and my initiative to strengthen sexual and reproductive health and rights in poor countries. think of reducing maternal mortality, the right to abortion. it supports the emancipation of women, and this is beneficial to the development of poor countries. but there is also solidarity in the rearrangement of the eu budget. the best way of doing this is of course to reduce agricultural subsidies, which are now very much possible because of the high prices. europe must invest in new technology and galileo shows that there is room for a different budget. we can live with less agricultural subsidies, while galileo stands for more jobs and innovation.
i am glad to be able to speak in dutch. you know the interest of parliament in the national champions: level playing field. i have two small supplementary questions. is it true that cross-subsidization between the production company and the network company is now a thing of the past? and secondly: i heard you say that the present proposals are also fully in line with the new package you have presented with piebalgs?
the commission's green paper and mr florenz's report are timely. it is high time that tobacco was brought up again in the european union, because it has been silent on this subject for too long. the florence report rightly focuses on smoking among young people and the harmful effects of excessive smoking at work, in public buildings and in the catering industry. for young people: research has shown that 90% of smokers start smoking as children, before the age of 18. i am very pleased with the ambitious targets in the florence report to reduce smoking in this age group substantially. after all, young people are susceptible to peer pressure, and the harmful effects on health are greater among them. i therefore hope that the member states - who of course think that they can do this themselves and that we should not interfere too much - will take up this house's call to commit themselves to halving the harmful effects of smoking among young people by 2025 and actually take action by agreeing among themselves that they will do so. as regards the smoking ban and the general ban on smoking: a good liberal principle says that one's personal freedom ends where another's freedom begins. and where is that principle more clearly illustrated than when it comes to unwanted merchants. smoking is a major public health problem and a cost to the european economy. more than 79 000 adults die each year in the member states of the european union as a result of secondhand smoke and there is evidence that secondhand smoke at work in the european union led to 7 000 deaths in 2002; exposure to secondhand smoke at home was responsible for another 72,000 deaths. there are, of course, also ample experiences in countries such as ireland, scotland and italy with this kind of smoking ban. and those experiences are actually all positive. what you hear from those countries - even from people who were very sceptical about this kind of measure beforehand - is ultimately positive. it is therefore tempting to introduce a smoking ban from europe as well. this house recently voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety not to opt for a european smoking ban at this time, but to leave those measures to the member states. i think that is the right choice, because such a controversial decision will have to be taken as close as possible to the citizen, and therefore by member states or by regions, for the time being. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european charter is fully implemented. what is extremely good - and i commend the commissioner for his green paper - is the fact that this debate has been stimulated. because that's what happened, undeniably. it is a subject on the agenda in all member states. finally, mr president, a few words on the product directive. the florence report also looks forward to its revision. i agree with everything you said about the warning labels on cigarette packs. it is tragic that so few member states have taken advantage of this and i would personally be in favour of legislation on this point. these places could also be used in other ways, for example on a leaflet with information on how to stop smoking, as is done in canada; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the council and the commission for the kind words they have spoken. the debate today and the resolution we are about to adopt are indeed primarily directed at the european commission, because we intend to give input to the progress report. but it is also addressed to the council, which will meet again in december on the basis of the progress report. what do we do in the resolution? what do we do in the text? we describe the progress that has been made and the agreements that we have made. we also describe what has happened to the commitment made by turkey. the resolution is therefore a compilation of what has been achieved, but it also contains everything that has not been achieved. mr president, what is also in it is what we expect from the turkish government, because it now has the opportunity to give a new impetus to the reform process. thirdly, i would like to say: we have tried to deepen and broaden the debate with turkey. and that means that i am asking for attention to social cohesion, logistics, transport and energy. freedom of expression and religious freedom rightly occupy a prominent place in our text. the constitution, the new constitution, must not be an excuse for not immediately and by all possible means ensuring that all the necessary reforms, and in particular those linked to article 301, are implemented. another point i would like to make is the relationship with the neighbours. good relations with neighbours are an absolute necessity. that means that when i look at turkey and armenia, the borders have to be removed. any economic blockade must be stopped. but moreover - one last sentence - if a people does not recognize its past, it has no future. so i ask the european commission to support turkey and armenia on this point too. i cannot say anything more about the pkk, mr president, because the procedures in this house have given me too little time to speak.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. i would much rather have spoken of the desirability of taking up the thread of reforms again; i am sorry to say that despite all the fine words, far too little is actually done. but i think the question that needs to be asked is: what do we think turkey should do? let us leave out of this debate all hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen. each of us knows, or should know, that there are no easy answers to this diabolical dilemma. on the one hand, there is the awareness, the knowledge that every country which has suffered 50 deaths in the last month must do something to respond, and at the same time there is the awareness among many of us - i think also among the turkish government - that large-scale military operations are not the solution. they do not eliminate the pkk, they cause great diplomatic and political damage and they make it - and this is the most important thing - much more difficult to find a solution to the kurdish problem in turkey. we must therefore hope that all the efforts now being made to find a diplomatic and political solution will be successful. because in the end, the problem is not in the iraqi mountains, the problem is in turkey. but in solving that problem - the kurdish problem - it is not: turks against kurds. i think that on the one hand there are those in turkey, the turks and the kurds, who know that there is only a political solution to this problem - the akp and the dtp - and on the other hand the radicals, on the turkish side and the kurdish side, who have no interest whatsoever in a political solution and who think that military force can help: the turkish side is the army and part of the opposition, and the kurdish side is the pkk. because let me be very clear: the current attacks by the pkk are of course aimed at the turkish state, but they are also an attack on the kurdish party dtp in parliament, which is seeking a political solution to the problem. that is why it is so important that this parliament, while strongly condemning the pkk and its terrorist attacks, should at the same time continue to express its support for all those on the kurdish side and on the turkish side who seek a peaceful political solution to this problem.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, on her excellent report. i would like to reply to mr langen's comment: the main thing for my group is that the negotiations are aimed at membership of the european union! the resolution we are discussing today is an encouragement to the turkish government to continue along this path. prime minister erdoğan has received a strong mandate from the turkish electorate to do so. this is what enables him to give impetus to the reforms. we expect results to be coming quickly now and we expect the commission to come forward with a progress report in that regard soon. of course, urgent issues must not be overlooked. i think it would be a very important step symbolically, but also a very significant one, if the turkish government did something about article 301, if it withdrew it or changed its wording. that would create the necessary openness in turkey for the debate, including on issues of the past, and that brings me to the armenian question. we think it is very important that there should be an internal debate in turkey on this subject, but it is primarily up to turkey itself to organise it and not so much the european parliament or the us house of representatives to try to force it. it is primarily an internal matter, and we can help, but it is not very useful for us to insist on it from outside. the new constitution has been announced. we believe that this will also provide an opportunity to finally seek a political solution to the kurdish question. i share the view of those who say that we must do everything to prevent a military escalation in northern iraq, but we can only do that if we first of all renounce the pkk's terrorist attacks ourselves and demand that the pkk stop them. secondly, we must also support turkey in its dialogue with iraq and the iraqi authorities, but also in its dialogue with the regional authorities in kurdish iraq to cooperate in practice to stop these attacks. we welcome new diplomatic initiatives, but we are particularly concerned with practical cooperation in the region itself to stop and reduce violence.
president, in a recent interview with the dutch press, commissioner rehn clearly indicated which reforms in turkey are most urgent for the eu, and i quote: "which are in the realm of freedom of expression and religion, core principles of democracy". i am grateful to the commissioner for this clear statement. it also gives me the opportunity to bring to his attention a document from the alliance of protestant churches in turkey. the document, dated september 1, 2007, reflects the grave needs and concerns of turkish protestants regarding the lack of religious freedom. i trust that you will speak forcefully to your turkish counterparts about the vulnerable social position of turkish protestants, or turkish christians. but, mr president, the fight against symptoms is not enough. media and politicians are creating a very intolerant and dangerous climate for non-muslim minorities in turkey. here too, brussels must act swiftly towards ankara. i shall therefore be submitting a second document to the commissioner. i look forward to a prompt written response from him.
i would like to thank mrs oomen-ruijten for her balanced resolution. i was in turkey a week and a half ago and spoke to members of the new turkish government and parliament. i have stressed the need to continue the reforms, with special attention to freedom of expression. the minister of justice and other cabinet members assured me that article 301 will be revised. the new government also promised reforms on the way to eu membership. the resolution also mentions that membership as the final objective. the resolution will thus directly contribute to reforms in turkey, including women's rights, trade union rights and social legislation. but reform requires calm, and right now there is fear and anger in turkey. fear of pkk attacks, anger that could lead to escalation. to prevent this, turkey and the eu must join hands to prevent and punish terrorism through diplomatic and political means.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. and despite the many differences of opinion, the european union must continue to take that as its starting point at the forthcoming summit. russia and europe need each other to tackle problems in europe, but above all also for major international issues. the only way to ensure lasting security in europe is to work with russia. we, my group and i, have therefore always supported the strategic partnership with russia. the summit has a very heavy agenda, and the commissioner and the representative of the presidency have already discussed this. we hope that at some point there will be a move on the question of the negotiating mandate for the new partnership and cooperation agreement. we hope that a new polish government will be able to work better with moscow and thus perhaps create room for progress. the energy relationship is of great importance and we too believe that reciprocity should be the starting point, but we must also realize that we are dealing here with a form of mutual independence which we must try to manage better together. we also want more cooperation in the black sea region. we also hope that the summit will include issues such as transnistria and georgia. the state of democracy in russia has already been mentioned, and it cannot, of course, go unmentioned. we too are concerned about the run-up to the duma elections. we too want these campaigns to be free and fair, to give all parties equal opportunities. that is why it is so important that the issue of observers be pressed in moscow. not only observers on election day itself, but also observers during the campaign leading up to the elections. we all know how important it is to be able to make a good judgment about the elections; the country that is seeking to hold the presidency of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe must also be able and willing to cooperate with the osce in the field of election observation. finally, and i repeat what i said at the beginning, we must remain critical when it comes to russia; the european union is a vital partner in the fight against terrorism, and it is a key partner in the fight against terrorism. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of neighbourhood, cooperation and cooperation.
president, thank you to the presidency of the council, thank you to the president of the commission. i shall not measure the success of the summit in the future by the length of the joint final declaration. what i want to see - and i hope that this will be discussed - is that we give precise form to those issues which we know we must find solutions to together. eu-russia relations are incredibly complex. that will not change in this election period. but we must recognize that there is no economic and political alternative for russia and the eu other than partnership. mr. president, we have a very good agreement on that partnership. it's been in existence for ten years; how do we deal with that creatively in the future? the summit is also important to ask for clarification on the concept of democracy and i thank the commission for what it is going to do on that point. what i always notice is that in russia stability and democracy are seen as polar opposites; in our view, of course, that is not the case and cannot be the case. russia's accession to the wto is of paramount importance to us all.
mr president, i have an oral amendment but it is in the text. my oral amendment is: ‘and to promote the application of eu environmental standards to large-scale mining and water barrage projects’.
in writing. i remember that in the early 1960s there were reciprocal visa requirements for citizens of the countries of the then european communities and of the socialist federal republic of yugoslavia. shortly thereafter, those visas were canceled. this meant that citizens of the seven countries that then made up yugoslavia could travel freely throughout much of europe. only for eu member slovenia and candidate country croatia has this not changed. the inhabitants of all other areas, including those of the applicant country macedonia, have been cut off from eu member states since 1992. the young generation that has grown up since then has hardly been able to leave their own country. for example, today you will find large signs with a large number of strict obligations in the embassies of eu countries in the macedonian capital skopje. only criminals can easily comply with it, but not students, researchers and journalists. i support the improved admission for these groups from 2008 and the reduction of the visa fee to € 35. unlike some members of my group, i do not see the introduction of biometric registration as a reason to reject this improvement. i regret the linking of the sale with the readmission policy, which does not sufficiently guarantee the safety of the refugees concerned.
in writing. the decision of the parliament's bureau to no longer report on plenary debates in each language went unnoticed in 2006. parliament has now reversed that decision. i agree that too much money and time is spent on translations of debates and documents into the 23 official languages of our union. it is a pity that there was no intermediate solution on the table, whereby the debates could be translated into english and french, so that, in addition to the audiovisual data, written documents would still be available.
in writing. the davis report deserves support because of the political message it sends. all sectors will have to do their part to tackle the climate problem, including the european automotive industry. that is why i wholeheartedly support the compromise to reach a maximum of 125g co2/km by 2015. for the netherlands, the davis report has an additional dimension which is undeniable. the problem of particulate matter in the netherlands requires effective source measures at european level. if this does not happen, it will be impossible for transport-intensive areas such as the port of rotterdam and schiphol airport to comply with the current and/or tightened fine dust standards. i am in favour of better information to consumers about the environmental performance of cars, as is now done with refrigerators and washing machines, for example, but i voted against the proposal to make 'cigarette-like' warnings mandatory in all advertising and marketing materials for the automotive industry. in the field of advertising and marketing, i see more value in self-regulation than in all sorts of european legal obligations.
president. - as in any country which has lost territory and influence in recent wars, there is a strong sense of nationalist superiority in serbia. instead of isolating or punishing serbia for the disappearance of war criminal ratko mladic, a future perspective must be offered, including guarantees for the ethnic minorities in vojvodina, sandjak and presevo. my group supports the kacin report's approach to rapprochement, with the prospect of serbian membership of the european union. unfortunately, the paragraph 8 added by the afet committee is ahead of the decision on kosovo. it is likely that after 10 december, kosovo will be unilaterally recognised as a state by the united states and some member states of the european union, and then serbia will also unilaterally take back the northern part of kosovo. we therefore share the conviction that the future status of kosovo can only contribute to stability and integration. in maintaining this unfounded optimism in paragraph 8, my group withdraws its support for this report.
president, members of the house, we are trying today to highlight the positive developments in serbia. and let there be no misunderstanding about it, there's nothing wrong with that. it is important for the european union that serbia develops in a democratic direction and it is important that we, the european union, recognise and, where possible, support that process. it is the same effort that is being made in other eu institutions, particularly in the council. but, colleagues, we must not exaggerate. even if serbia does everything that is called for in this report, but at the same time it plays a destructive and negative role in the negotiations on the future of kosovo, that will undoubtedly have negative consequences for serbia's pace towards the european union. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is right. that is why i find it incomprehensible and wrong that the link - which i believe really exists, as everyone knows - has not been established between the serbian position in the negotiations on kosovo and serbia's path towards europe. i therefore call on my colleagues to support the amendment which does contain this link. there is a link between the serbian attitude on kosovo and the speed and content of relations between serbia and the european union. the reason for the refusal to do so so far is that we - the european union - should not make things more difficult for the democrats in serbia, president tadic. so we have to keep quiet about the hard points. i fundamentally disagree with that assessment. i agree with the predecessor of the present commissioner, chris patten, who has just written that it is a miscalculation that by being soft, by not being honest and sincere towards serbia, we are playing the democrats. by not being open and honest, we're empowering kostunica to say, we can force things on the european union by taking strong action. that's not the way forward. again, be positive, but also be honest and clear. eu citizens and serbia are entitled to it.
president. - mr kacin's solid and comprehensive report gives a balanced account of the socioeconomic development of serbia. light and shadow side coming out: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. foreign direct investment is essential for serbian development and it is precisely this that is needed at the present time. the causes are obvious. they are mainly due to problems with the image of belgrade. what primarily deterred foreign investors was the continuing political uncertainty - kosovo as the code word - as well as the markedly diminished momentum for market-economy reform on the part of belgrade. which brings me to a crucial question. serbia is in the way of itself? the kacin report opens with the statement that serbia's future lies in the european union; the european conditions on this road are well known to belgrade. so too does european cooperation in this field. finally, the serbian authorities themselves must answer the pressing question: serbia is getting in the way of itself?
the report on the state of relations between the european union and africa is now before us. it is a joint vision of africa and europe for future cooperation to promote development in africa and to combat poverty. the strategy must be more than just an endorsement of current policies. it is a vision based on shared values and principles, on mutual respect, and on the well-being of people. africa and europe have a long history together. however, the proportions have changed: it can't be one-way traffic anymore. it is now about an equal partnership to tackle together issues affecting both continents, such as security, trade, migration and climate change, for example. in 2005, the european union wrote a european strategy for africa. i was a reporter at the time. in our view, this strategy lacked two important elements. it was a strategy too much for africa, but without africa, and the european parliament and civil society were too little involved in the creation of this strategy. i am glad that we are now talking about a joint eu-africa strategy and that the involvement of the european parliament and civil society has increased. the cooperation is promising for the future. the strategy must give us the structure and the direction for joint action in the future. the fight against poverty and the millennium development goals must remain at the heart of this. and while the latest mod figures allow for some optimism, in sub-saharan africa 41.1% of people continue to live on $1 a day. this situation cannot be improved by development aid alone. economic growth must also be promoted. the economic partnership agreements currently being negotiated can be a good instrument for this, provided that - and i emphasize this - sustainable development is at the heart of the matter and provided that it is more than a european trade agreement. i would like to hear from the commissioner on the state of play with regard to a possible extension of the deadline of 1 january 2008. mr president, the african governments are, of course, first and foremost responsible for the development of their own countries. they have become more independent politically and economically. africa is developing rapidly, not least because of the emergence of new institutions, such as nepad and the african peer review mechanism. europe is no longer the only and exclusive partner for financial and political support. other countries are beginning to exert their influence in and on africa very strongly - think of china, for example. we can no longer take our relationship with africa for granted. the report emphasizes three priority policy areas: peace and security, good governance, economic growth and investing in people. the report stresses the importance of greater coherence between development activities and other policy areas such as trade, agriculture and migration. only if europe can use its aid more coherently, coordinate it better and have better financial accountability will the european union's development policy be better and more efficient. peace and security is a big problem in africa. the report stresses the importance of an integrated approach to conflict situations. this must be centred on our responsibility to protect people and to contribute to conflict prevention and resolution, as well as to reconstruction. it goes without saying that good governance, a functioning rule of law and sustainable democracy are prerequisites for stability and development. capacity building in these areas is crucial. we support the commission's ambitions in this respect. president, in december the second eu-africa summit will take place in lisbon after seven years. the joint eu-africa strategy and action plan will be adopted there. there is a lot at stake, and it is in all our interests that this summit be a success. and while the situation in zimbabwe is extremely worrying, we must remember that this is an eu-africa summit and not an eu-zimbabwe summit; it's about a people-centred approach and not a president-centred partnership. it is good that the european parliament and the pan-african parliament have the opportunity at the summit to express the parliamentary view of the joint strategy. last week the delegations of the pan-african parliament and of our parliament met to prepare a joint statement. i hope our presidents can present these to the heads of government at the summit. mr president, there is of course more to be said, but i see my time is up, and i shall therefore leave it at that, but not without thanking my colleagues and the european commission for the good cooperation.
the relationship between the european union and the african countries is under unacceptably high pressure as a result of the negotiations with the acp countries on the economic partnership agreements. if these negotiations fail, cotonou will be a black hole for some countries from 1 january, because our trade relations will be much less favourable than the general system of preferences. but it would be a shame if the poor countries were punished in this way, because they feel that the eu and the acp countries are not equal partners at the moment. give poor countries the right to market protection of sectors that are weak and would collapse in the storm of open trade. these negotiations are in stark contrast to the good principles and objectives of the maria martens report. i share those goals. we as socialists would like to add that the eu's trade and agricultural policies must not stand in the way of development policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is up to the european commission to make it a concrete policy. the commission will be closely monitoring this.
i think it is quite right that policy and action should be assessed by the commission. i have an additional question on the european market, the unification of the market. the division of companies is aimed specifically at ensuring that investments in the networks are actually made. and there we see, also between countries, that we are falling behind the agreements as they were made. we had to be able to exchange 10% of it with each other, and that's what we called interoperability, and we're lagging behind. my question is this: what action is the council taking to really get the investments under way to improve the connection between france and spain, for example? you can buy cheaper from the neighbors, but there's no pipe, there's no way. what are you doing about it?
in writing. the two rapporteurs on the eu budget, mr virrankoski and mr itälä, have rightly taken a somewhat critical line on the increase in the amounts for 2008. i want to express my appreciation for that. unfortunately, the european parliament today chooses to spend more money in too many cases. that is why i have difficulty with paragraphs 2 and 4 of the virrankoski report. this is not in keeping with the european union's wish to concentrate on what it is good at, its core tasks. finally, a secondary problem which makes it more difficult to agree to the virrankoski report is amendment no 2 by the socialist group. this amendment seeks to include sexual and reproductive rights in parliament's position. however, these do not exclude aborus provocatus. the term "sexual and reproductive rights" is therefore inappropriate.
the european union has a duty to help the people of iran, and to help the people of iran. first, the terrible human rights situation, created by a regime that does not believe in democracy and the equality of people, but in their own interpretation of the will of god, which gives them the right to imprison, torture and kill other people. secondly, the regime's attempt to gain mass support despite its role as a violent minority. it's an artificial attempt to create a sense of national pride. the reason for this pride is the possession of nuclear energy and possibly even nuclear weapons, like india, pakistan and israel, which have not signed the non-proliferation treaty. thirdly, it is the opposition to this regime. the moderate opposition, which wants a somewhat less strict regime - as was the case under the previous president - and the genuine democratic opposition, which lives at home among workers and students and also among the intellectuals who have fled abroad. and fourthly, it is the american threat to apply the same model to iran as in iraq and afghanistan, by means of a military invasion or at least by bombing. such an attack by foreign adversaries is counterproductive. it would encourage the people of iran to rally behind the hated regime and its nuclear weapons, if any, out of patriotism. my group rejects both a military invasion of this regime and the pursuit of friendship with this regime for its own sake. our solidarity is with the victims and the opposition. the regime must not in any way be given the impression that it can negotiate restrictions on the rights of the opposition in exile in europe, and it must not be allowed to propagandize that democratic countries support its misrule. the european court of justice's ruling to remove the people's mojahedin organisation from the terrorist list should be fully respected so that this organisation or other opposition groups are not subject to legal or financial obstacles.
mr president, the situation of the roma in europe is getting worse. the developments in italy prove that to us. we have all seen that unchallenged xenophobic and racist hysteria can overcome common sense. the crime of one single person has fuelled an unprecedented media lynching. this moved us towards restrictions on the fundamental rights of european citizens based on popular racist and xenophobic hysteria. we must not let that happen. criminal issues are for the judges to deal with, not for politicians or civilians. however horrible and condemnable the crime that took place in rome is, it should not lead us to collective responsibility of a whole nation. the events in italy did uncover the reality of the campo nomadi, in which so many roma live. the fact that tensions and instability arise from such situations is not questionable. that is why we must act. my first assistant is a roma. integration can proceed quickly. in 2005 we adopted a resolution that asked for concerted eu and national action for speeding up the inclusion of roma. therefore, i propose that we, as meps, show that we care, and urge decision-makers to join us. i propose that the ep establish a permanent european parliament rapporteur on roma issues, who would monitor the situation of the roma in europe and come annually with recommendations to the commission and governments. in addition, we should call upon the commission to establish an eu roma inclusion fund, together with an eu strategy for roma inclusion and a roma unit within the european commission. this will ensure proper management of the eu roma inclusion policies.
mr president, i think we will soon agree that an effective approach to crime deserves our support, and murder is of course never justifiable, but i think we also agree that freedom of residence in the schengen area is a great asset and a tangible proof of european citizenship. if you want to limit that, you're gonna have to come up with some pretty good arguments. we must also be particularly careful about collective agreements in this context, because when you talk about collective agreements, you are soon talking about a group, and by chance it is now the roma group, and i think that is a very unfortunate development. i welcome the remarks made by commissioner frattini on the roma and on the fact that the european union could do more for the roma, but i remain, of course, dissatisfied with the earlier remarks he made on the roma in relation to what happened in italy. there is a lot of talk today about the consequences of migration that has been taking place since the enlargement of the european union, but which has also taken place before within the larger european union and we are of course dealing with the consequences of that, but i think we also need to look a little bit at the causes of it and at how we as the european union can do more for the people who are going to travel in the european union, because they are simply looking for better living conditions, for work and for better conditions for their families and for their children. i am very much in favour of using european funds more effectively to do more for the roma, especially in the new member states, but i would point out that this parliament has already called in the past for the roma to be recognised as a european minority, as a very special group, not to be compared with other minorities. if you make the roma a european minority, that immediately gives the union a lot more scope to do something about the problems. i repeat our call for one commissioner in the commission to be responsible for roma policy, and not what we see now, where one commissioner coordinates and all kinds of commissioners interfere. the power must be in one hand. finally, as regards discrimination and social exclusion: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am pointing the finger at the new member states, but we know that there are problems in the old member states too. all sorts of agreements were made with the governments of the new member states at that time, and they are not being implemented or not being implemented sufficiently. i think that the european union, the european commission, must also play its part by returning to the agreements made at the time of accession, particularly as regards improving the situation of the roma. it is a question of discrimination, but also of social exclusion. that is why our group calls for a further discussion with the new member states. we will certainly do that ourselves, but it is also an appeal to the council and in particular to the commission, not only to commissioner frattini but also to his colleagues.
madam president, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, i would like to say the following. the debate has again shown that the proposed soil policy is highly controversial. the commission has already proposed a strategy for the protection of the environment, and the council has already proposed a directive on the protection of the environment. at least it seems that way, because nothing is less true. sustainable soil management is already mentioned in 33 european directives, for example in the water framework directive. why then do we come up with overlapping legislation which also imposes additional burdens, especially for member states where there is already a well-functioning soil policy? i shall support the thematic strategy of mr prodi. i believe that member states which do not have a soil policy at present should develop one on the basis of the strategy. the framework directive, on the other hand, is disproportionate and, in my view, also contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. unlike air and water, soil is not transboundary and policies are often implemented at regional or local level. that is why i - and therefore mr blokland - co-signed the amendment rejecting the commission's proposal.
president, commissioner, i am in favour of the soil strategy outlined in the prodi report, but i am against the soil directive. this is clearly based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. i therefore tabled an amendment to reject it, but at the same time i tabled another to opt for another instrument, namely open coordination. the objectives can be fully achieved. it is obvious that it is a question of stimulation, knowledge exchange and monitoring. everything is possible, including financial support from the union. there is still the danger of duplication of work: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of water. the citizens of my country, the netherlands, do not understand why unnecessary legislation and regulation should be established from above, from the european level. as i said, there are already more than 30 directives dealing directly or indirectly with soil quality. why central regulation when it can be decentralised? i do appreciate mrs gutiérrez-cortines' wish to make the scheme more subsidiary. finally, with 40 signatures, i have tabled a large number of proposals, amendments to put even more emphasis on soil quality and protection and to respond to new challenges such as climate change, but there must be no legislation at european level. i call on my colleagues to follow my amendments on this.
president. - thank you to mrs gutiérrez-cortines, but i must say that we regrettably disagree with her. in many places in europe the soil is polluted or there is erosion or other soil problems. these problems must be resolved as soon as possible. i think we all agree on this. the commission proposes to solve soil problems at european level and that, in my view, is the problem. in fact, soil problems are often local and only in specific cases have a genuine cross-border impact. european cooperation is desirable for soil problems with cross-border implications. solidarity and cooperation are important. however, there is no need for a european policy on local and national soil problems. many member states already have good national policies to solve and prevent their soil problems. their policies provide a level of protection at least as high as that currently available. the soil directive should take account of these member states, they should be exempted from european obligations and therefore we propose to vote against this directive.
president. - i should like to begin by congratulating mr liese. he delivered a wonderful report. i also want to pay tribute to our shadow reporter, matthias groote. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy. we can't meet the climate target of minus 20 or minus 30 percent by 2020 without everybody putting money in their pockets. the airline industry in particular does not want to be taken too hard, but we hear that from all sectors and if we appease everyone, climate policy will not be any good. it is therefore good that the commission wants to include aviation in the ets, but the commission has been a little too generous with the number of emission allowances it wants to allocate to the sector. i think 80% of the emissions really should be the upper limit. the environment committee rightly wants this ceiling to be gradually lowered in line with the european climate objective of minus 20 or minus 30%. aircraft operators have pledged to increase the efficiency of aircraft engines by 50%. the environment committee wants to keep them on this, and that is good, because the more economical, the cleaner. a third important point is the auctioning of rights. as far as i'm concerned, we're auctioning off as much as we can. twenty-five percent is really the minimum. the proceeds of the auction should go towards fighting climate change, but also, and above all, adaptation to climate change in developing countries. the least developed countries contribute little to climate change, but they do bear the brunt of its effects. we can do something about that with this legislation.
mr president, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, i would like to make the following contribution. the proposal to integrate aviation into the emissions trading system should be a clear signal from the european union to contribute to the ambitious reduction targets agreed earlier this year. in this context, the committee responsible in parliament has expressed its support for the commission's proposal and even called for it to be tightened up. in the past week, there seemed to be some interest in an agreement at first reading. this expectation was reinforced by the presidency of the council. it was a false expectation, because no mandate could be obtained from the council. this week, i think it is important that we do not settle for a watered-down version of the commission proposal, but that we aim for a proposal with clear ambitions, to be consistent with the line taken this spring on emission reductions. i therefore wholeheartedly support the line taken by the committee on the environment.
mr president, instead of all sorts of ineffective taxes and charges, the commission proposes the present market-based instrument. a choice i wholeheartedly endorse. it is environmentally effective, economically efficient and well suited to wider applications. at least, that's how it could all be. it was clear fairly quickly that there was a great deal of division in this house. the environment committee was facing the transport committee. my colleague, mr holger krahmer, has said all that is necessary on this subject. the compromise amendments have been drawn up and tomorrow's vote will determine whether emotion is the key. the climate is hot and green voting is extremely sexy. there is nothing wrong with that in itself, but i do not think that it is the intention to strangle the european aviation industry and the jobs it creates. the attempt to artificially reduce one specific mode of transport, in this case aviation, in favour of another, is counterproductive in my view. all indications are that the demand for transport is increasing at a faster rate than the capacity available. we need all the modalities, and we can't do it with trains and buses alone. the aim was to develop a model as workable as possible that could be extended and/or copied worldwide. and yes, if we really want to be environmentally efficient, then the latter is crucial. if not, we are stuck with that one tiny drop on the familiar glowing plate, and that is what i would like to avoid. as mr rack has just said, if we are to be effective, we must persuade the rest of the world, because only then will our action be effective.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of transport by rail and road (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). this is also a very ambitious plan compared to the emissions trading system in industry. but, mr president, what did our committee on the environment do? it has sharpened this proposal considerably in its key points, and that is missing the point. europe must show leadership, but leadership is not just about leading, but also about convincing and winning others over, and that in the highly competitive environment of international aviation. the new regulation must therefore not lead to high costs and red tape, especially for european airlines, but must be beneficial for the climate. the overall climate gain must be realised and preferably globally. i am therefore glad that amendments are now available from the epp and also from the liberals, which i hope will lead us to a realistic course tomorrow. that is necessary if we are to really encourage cleaner flying, because even with clean planes, the bureaucratic grind of an auction is not very stimulating. i am glad to say that i expect that we will be more realistic tomorrow in terms of the number of rights available. but, mr president, this proposal alone will not get us there. the commission and the european parliament must work together to achieve the single european sky, because that means five times more environmental benefits. i hope, mr president, that we can increase pressure on the member states on this point too, because only then can we really make a difference on the climate.
mr president, cohesion policy and regional policy operate on the basis of the regulation which we adopted in 2006 as a seven-year framework. we have allocated some 350 billion euros and have prioritised growth and employment, with priority for the lisbon objective, and you know that these funds are specifically earmarked for this. all well and good, you might say, but what am i missing? i am missing the fifth cohesion report in the agenda for next year. that was promised for june 2008. the report should lay the foundations for adjustments to cohesion policy in the longer term, for a new positioning of regions and cities. there is a trend in the debate in our member states towards renationalisation, which parliament strongly opposes, because it concerns a whole range of policy areas: r & d, innovation, regional cohesion and rural policy. i would also like to address commissioner potočnik in this context, in addition to mrs hübner. the ppe-de group has started the debate with a view to the medium term, with a hearing in parliament last week, precisely to, let us say, go into the matter in depth and to be very clear to citizens and regions in the coming years. finally, mr president, the council is blocking the flexibilization of the new solidarity fund and we want to make a breakthrough in this area. i am counting on the commission to do this, we are running out of patience.
president, president barroso's slogan is the europe of results, but it must also be results in the field of intangible things, not just the market. the barroso commission would be a champion of civil liberties and civil rights. so far, it's been a big disappointment, but with just under two years to go, there's still hope. in my view, the highlight of the 2008 work programme is the proposal for a directive on equal treatment outside the workplace, i.e. a general prohibition of discrimination. finally, the commission is meeting the demands of this parliament for many years. this component should therefore be given high priority in the treatment. but at the same time the commission must ensure that existing legislation is better enforced, because there is quite a discrepancy between the good anti-discrimination laws we have and the laxness of the commission in enforcing them. the commission has also proposed that the principle of non-discrimination be introduced in other cases, such as succession rights and wills, and that the commission should recognise modern family relationships. i also welcome the proposals to strengthen equality between men and women, for example by better combining work and family life. the proposals for greater flexibility in the labour market are important for the position of women in the labour market. flexibility is good for women. strict rules for the protection of workers are to the disadvantage of women. the so-called intercultural dialogue has been announced as a priority. the aim is to defuse tensions in society through dialogue, but in reality it is often an interreligious dialogue, and i object to that, commissioner. there is nothing concrete in the proposals for next year, so it is not clear what the intercultural dialogue should be, but i fear that it will be a bit like the annual picture of mr barroso with generally conservative church leaders. i suggest that the agenda of this ...
the european union must be able to play a greater role in the world. the council should play a leading role in this, but is often paralysed or ineffective by internal contradictions. i hope that next year the commission will set a good example, starting with the european environment. in turkey, the negotiations must be resumed swiftly and they must be put back on track. there is a lot of work to be done in the balkans: bosnia must be helped to get on with the process of state formation, macedonia must be prepared for the start of membership negotiations and, of course, there will hopefully also be a major contribution from the european union to the reconstruction of kosovo, after a solution to the status issue has been found, hopefully by the end of this year or sometime next year. but we would also like the commission to continue to develop the black sea initiative which it has taken. we think it is very important that investment in regional cooperation be made around the european union. and what is the commission going to do about the central asia strategy recently adopted by the european council? in this connection i would also like to ask whether we can expect to see any further development of the external dimension of energy policy which this parliament called for earlier this year. this is very important, also in connection with the relations with the region i mentioned earlier. then the neighborhood policy. i think that the priority next year should be to conclude the negotiations with ukraine, and we hope - we will discuss this in this parliament tomorrow afternoon - that a perspective can be created for that country too, with which it can move forward in the coming years, a kind of treaty, a kind of association, with which ukraine can continue the reform process with the new government towards further integration with the european union. in this process, moldova must not be forgotten, because it too needs a new partnership agreement. i hope that the commission will come forward with proposals on this next year. of course, we must also consider how to deal with a country like georgia, and we shall be debating that tomorrow afternoon. that is where we ask the commission to be very active. finally , russia, how can we break the status quo of little result? we would say that there will be new action after the presidential elections.
i am speaking as coordinator of our group on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation. it will therefore not surprise you that i would like to congratulate the commission on its commitment to putting the general strategic objectives of prosperity, solidarity, security, freedom and a stronger europe at the heart of its activities in the world. all these points are closely linked to the situation in poor countries. poverty, war, instability in developing countries have direct consequences for our continent on precisely these points. solidarity, support for poor countries is not only in the interest of those countries, but also of europe itself. and only together, with poor countries, will we be able to find adequate answers to problems such as migration, energy and climate change. the commission has already said that a comprehensive and coherent approach is essential. it is against this background, mr president, that it is so important that europe and africa now work on a joint eu-africa strategy for the development of africa. this will be decided at the african summit in lisbon in december. i hope this will be a good example of a new form of cooperation. as regards the effectiveness of our policies, i wholeheartedly support the importance of quality discipline and impact assessment, as well as the simplification of administrative burdens. i hope that we as a parliament can work well with the commission in this respect and that the commission will therefore, as it should, keep us regularly and timely informed of the state of play.
in writing. communicable diseases threatening europe, such as sars and avian influenza, demonstrate that far-reaching european action is needed to halt a possible pandemic in europe. unilateral action by member states is not sufficient to address the risk of such diseases. a european approach and coordination are needed, with knowledge of the level of protection in the member states being essential. it is therefore essential that comparable and up-to-date data exist at community level in the field of protection against potential pandemics and communicable diseases. the main considerations are the stocks of antiviral medicines and vaccines in the member states. i would have preferred that there were already stocks of antiviral drugs and vaccines at european level. without new powers, the commission will be powerless to react to a possible pandemic.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, on behalf of my group i too would like to congratulate the people of the nine new member states on the portuguese christmas present they will receive on 21 and 22 december. i fully agree with the secretary of state, the presidency, that this is indeed the final removal of the last vestiges of the iron curtain that we have been so concerned about. the free movement of citizens without internal controls is a great asset and one of the most important freedoms of the european union and it is very good that the inhabitants of those new member states can start to use it. the schengen convention, however, is more than just the abolition of internal borders. it also means that the external borders of the union will henceforth be guarded by these new countries, in the interests of all the other member states. it is important that the schengen enlargement does not compromise security. that is what the commissioner and the secretary of state have said. efficient and effective border surveillance is essential to this end. the council and commission's evaluations show that the nine countries are in principle ready to take on this task, but there are still a number of areas where improvements can be made, for example in the area of airport staff and infrastructure, and we are very much looking forward to the evaluations and monitoring that will be published on this and we also hope that parliament will be informed in due time. schengen is not just about border controls, of course. it also concerns the intensification of police and judicial cooperation between the schengen countries. we are pleased that the portuguese presidency has found a solution in the case of these nine member states with a kind of sis 1+, but we do insist that progress is now being made as quickly as possible with the sis 2 system. i welcome the commissioner's commitment that this will be done by december 2008 and we will of course keep him to that. we understand that bulgaria and romania will have to wait a few years, but we also hope that they will work so hard, with our help, that they too will be able to join the schengen area within a few years. the same is true of cyprus. it is a pity that the problem which has been a mortgage for so long is now leading to the country's being unable to join the schengen area. this is yet another argument for working together to find a solution to the problem that has been plaguing the island for so long. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. of course, a solution is also needed for the people of cyprus themselves. finally, i would like to refer again to yesterday's discussion. it is rightly pointed out that schengen enlargement and the whole schengen system is a matter of mutual solidarity between the member states. as i have said before, the task of guarding the external borders is a task which concerns the security of all of us and which will now also involve the nine countries concerned and which we will also address to them. this solidarity and the need for cooperation also apply when problems arise in the future, for example in the case of internal migration flows. we must also agree that we will not try to solve problems unilaterally, but will also seek forms of cooperation with all the countries belonging to the schengen area, to seek together solutions to problems which will arise in the future and not, as i said, as is happening in italy now, where one country is trying unilaterally to solve something which is actually a common problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. in recent weeks it has become clear in the media that since romania's accession to the european union, 500 000 romanians have already left for italy. the free movement of persons within the european union is thus also widely used without applying the schengen acquis. i am therefore very concerned about the way in which checks are carried out at our internal borders to ensure that undesirable persons do not cross them. the expulsion of eu citizens by italy is the ultimate measure that makes clear that open borders also have negative consequences. so it will have to be checked. this is possible at national borders, but checks can also be carried out at airports and railway stations. it is therefore necessary that a well-functioning schengen information system is operational in the short term. can the commission also take account of the free movement of persons from countries which are members of the union but not of the schengen area in its evaluation of schengen?
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert, for his report. as a greek, he has taken matters into his own hands, including his own region and its citizens, and has completed his own-initiative report in a very short time. i wholeheartedly support the report. i would like to take this opportunity today to place disaster management and prevention in a somewhat broader context, namely that of climate change. rainfall, even severe rainfall, floods, sea level rise, etc., etc. will become more and more frequent. the european union is also given special consideration in this context. i participated in a debate with representatives of all continents and regions at the united nations in new york from 31 october to 2 november. and what that shows is that they also look at us and say, europe, will you commit yourself to prevention, prevention programmes and disaster prevention and contribute your expertise? i think we do have what is needed on a global scale, including in the field of innovation and solidarity. my country, the netherlands, which is below sea level, also has special expertise in this area, and we can clearly do something about it. it is therefore good that we are setting a good example from the various funds in the european union. i would like to reiterate what was said this morning in the debate with the whole commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a very good fund, a very good example, but there is still a deadlock in the european council on this point. finally, mr president, this initiative by mr vakalis has a clear european dimension. disasters often cross borders, they do not stop at the border, and that is why i want to support the initiatives that are also being taken in the commission to better protect citizens.
the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it has been a great help to the people of europe. this has brought us not only prosperity, but also a stable democracy. we must therefore be careful - and i am speaking here mainly of the trade aspects - to adopt a too defensive strategy, paying particular attention to the defensive trade instruments. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we were in singapore with a delegation from the international trade commission and we saw that american companies have much better access than european companies, mr president, and we must not let that happen. that's why we need an offensive approach. after all, we are the largest economy in the world. if we combine our forces properly, we should also be able to use our power to open up those markets. i am referring to the abolition of import duties and non-tariff barriers to trade, mr president, and also in the context of the market access strategy it is important to give priority to these emerging markets.
i would like to ask you, mr president, to amend paragraph 6 as follows. that would require a vote in parts. the first sentence must be: emphasises that the situation in chechnya continues to be a point of dissent in the relations between the eu and russia rather than the current text. the rapporteur agrees.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president. - we must let practice speak, and the summit on the flying planes. it has not been held, so we ask that the reference to it in the text be replaced by a reference to the next summit.
in writing. soil protection is urgently needed to prevent the destruction of natural soil life, erosion, poisoning and desiccation. without these measures, plant growth in densely populated areas with intensive land use will be impossible. in many parts of europe i see neglected land, which has lost all use to nature and human use. yesterday i voted with the majority of this house in favour of the prodi report, which expresses the need for active measures to protect the soil. today we are discussing what such soil protection measures should look like. i support a system which encourages member states which have not yet taken the necessary initiatives on their own to take the necessary steps now. their failure to do so has negative consequences not only for themselves but also for neighbouring countries, for example by increasing erosion debris causing river silt deposits and flooding. on the other hand, eu rules should in no way lead to member states which already regulate this matter properly being faced with the obligation to increase bureaucracy or obstacles to their good approach. i support amendments which allow those who do the same or better to continue. on the other hand, it is irresponsible to reject, delay or limit the soil protection package as proposed by the largest group in this parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the internal market. first of all, i would like to thank mrs satu hassi for the many and important work she has done to produce this resolution. in the light of the forthcoming bali climate conference, it is important to articulate the european parliament's position on climate policy as succinctly as possible. satu hassi has succeeded in that. now that the european union is making a strong commitment to climate policy, it is time for other parts of the world to follow, including those countries that have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol. the european union must therefore demonstrate its leadership in bali, not in a paternalistic way but in a cooperative way. i see the bali conference as the right moment to think together about climate policy actions beyond 2012. a global concerted effort will be needed to preserve the quality of creation and to ensure our safety.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). to achieve this, the support of developing countries is very much needed, and also of countries like china and india. these countries have so far contributed little to climate change, but they are bearing the brunt of its effects. europe must help and extend its hand to these countries to help them adapt to climate change, and it must invest in technology transfer. i am optimistic that we can make headway in 2009 and that a good agreement can be reached, to which the united states will also say yes. but if the rest of the world does not follow europe in agreeing binding targets, then a plan b is needed and even a plan c. plan b is: global sectoral reduction targets by industry sector, and if not, plan c: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. the resolution before us is a good one and deserves our full support. my heartfelt thanks to satu hassi and the shadow reporters.
mr president, first of all i should like to express my full support on behalf of my group for the appeal which mr brok has just made to us all. the european union's neighbourhood policy is a major factor in the european union's external action. we welcome the plans to strengthen the enp, but the enp is not a closed chapter. the eu must continue to look for ways to make policy more effective. differentiation - others have said it too - is the key to the success of neighbourhood policy. the enp covers a vast area, from morocco to ukraine. europe does not have the same influence and the same appeal in all these countries. the eu must offer its partner countries, within the framework of the enp, the cooperation agreement that suits their own ambitions. we believe that this fact should be reflected in the commission's priorities. the european aspirations of georgia are different from those of azerbaijan. tunisia is not as important to the eu as ukraine and lebanon is not as important as morocco. hence the importance of looking closely at each country individually. we must be able to concentrate on those countries where the enp's core objective of bringing neighbouring countries closer to europe is most within reach. the report also mentions the eastern neighbours of the enp countries. we think it is a good idea, within the framework of the recently adopted central asia strategy, to seek closer relations with the countries concerned. the experience gained by the european union in the area of neighbourhood policy could certainly be used in this context. however, we do not support the idea of granting the status of an enp country to countries in that region. it is better to concentrate on a coherent approach to central asia than to drag individual countries by the hair to the enp. finally, the strengthening of parliamentary cooperation with the eastern neighbourhood countries is only useful if it is accompanied by multilateral cooperation between the governments in the region. if there is to be a parliamentary assembly, there must also be a ministerial assembly, as is the case in other regions where we have set up such a parliamentary assembly. in our view, such a parliamentary assembly should only be possible if the council and the commission also create an intergovernmental counterpart.
mr president, i am very pleased with the commission's commitment to the state of israel in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. the commission has already made this clear yesterday in the person of its distinguished representative, dr andreas eldina. commissioner, keep it up. i am supported by our co-rapporteur, mr tannock, and the chairman of our israeli delegation, mrs hybášková. one question is burning on my lips. what new concrete possibilities does the commissioner see for strengthening the european neighbourhood policy towards israel, especially in view of the highly developed political and economic status of the jewish state? in short, is not differentiation within the european neighbourhood policy entirely appropriate here? i think i did. i sure do!
the debate on economic and trade relations between the european union and ukraine following the comprehensive report by mr zaleski is taking place at a crucial moment: the parliamentary elections are over and the economic and political problems in the country call for a continued and decisive government. i am thinking of an active fight against corruption. with winter coming, we also need a government that can negotiate with russia on the supply and transit of russian gas. after reading this report, i am inclined to say that europe has put its demands on the table. ukraine is now on the move. the country must not only have a well-functioning government, but this government must also show the political will to tackle the problems. after five elections in as many years, the people are rightly tired of all the political chatter. ukrainian politicians should now be less concerned with each other and more concerned with the country's political and economic future. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that ukraine is on the move. the european union also has homework to do. i agree with the rapporteur's comments in paragraph 51, where he says that there are no clear definitions and perspectives for the european neighbourhood policy. ukraine should be given the prospect of eu membership in the medium or long term. the european union can then initiate or support the necessary reforms in the country within the framework of the neighbourhood policy.
- a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are really concerned about fundamental rights, we are concerned about the precarious position of christian communities in the middle east. this resolution calls on all the european institutions to do so. a recent visit by a delegation from our parliament gave us a better insight into the daily lives of lebanese christians. they fear being relegated to a sort of second-class position, like their fellow believers in virtually all the countries of the region. they are directly forced to choose between personal safety and personal dignity, religious belief. the lebanese christians of today want to preserve both. meanwhile, the actual political violence of recent years is affecting christians in the cedar country very directly. in the words of a spokesman in lebanon just this week: "although not primarily aimed at christians, the majority of politicians killed are from christian homes and the same is true of the journalists targeted. this is intimidating the christian population in lebanon".
the christian communities in the middle east date back to the early years of christianity. they are older than christianity in europe and older than islam in the middle east. nevertheless, they are often seen as a foreign element in this now predominantly muslim environment. this is not just a result of religious intolerance within parts of islam. europe is also to blame. three times in history, europe and christianity in that area have evoked revulsion and hatred, first by the crusades in the late middle ages, when occupying armies brought places sacred not only to christians but also to jews and muslims under european control. the second time followed the collapse of the ottoman empire at the beginning of the last century, when egypt, sudan, jordan and iraq came under british colonial control and syria and lebanon came under french colonial control. we are in phase three at the moment. the positions taken from europe on israel, palestine and iraq are provoking great resistance in the middle east. europe is suspected of being concerned mainly with its own energy supply, with securing its own transport routes and with favouring ethnic or religious minorities who are most sympathetic to europe. the result may be that the christian minorities in the middle east cannot sustain themselves and are doomed to flee to europe. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration.
the president of the republic of uzbekistan, mr. zhao, has been very kind to the people of uzbekistan. the attempt was thwarted on 13 may 2005 by violent attacks on demonstrators, which left hundreds dead. since then, the outside world has been remarkably quiet. after our previous urgent debate on 27 october 2005, little has happened initially. however, after the collapse of the soviet union, authoritarian regimes have come to power not only in better known states such as ukraine, georgia and belarus, but also in turkmenistan and uzbekistan in particular. it was not democracy that had won there, but a group of people who had gained experience in the old state apparatus and the security services. these people had no other goal than to remain in power themselves. they privatized state-owned enterprises, distorted election results, restricted opposition to the extent possible, hindered free organizations, restricted the press, and used violence against their people when necessary. unfortunately, this situation is still continuing in uzbekistan. until now, europe's attitude towards uzbekistan has been too much determined by economic and military interests. it seemed that the dictatorship in uzbekistan was allowed to continue because it had made itself useful for the military intervention in afghanistan. such an attitude would make europe's pretensions to human rights and democracy utterly unbelievable. europe must not subordinate the rights and freedoms of the uzbek people to other considerations.
author. mr president, since 1991, the state of somalia has effectively ceased to exist, at least as far as the territory of the former italian colony is concerned. only in the north, the former british colony of somaliland, is there a form of state authority, but that authority is not internationally recognized. the state has been replaced by a number of warlords who alternate between fighting and cooperating. the army of neighboring ethiopia has emerged as their joint protector. on the other hand, their common opponent is the union of islamic courts, which wants to reunite somalia on the basis of traditional islamic rules and without those warlords. all attempts to date to establish a generally accepted unity government and to restore somalia to statehood have failed. the commission has provided financial support to the federal transitional institutions set up in 2004. this seemed justifiable at the time, but has led to the accusation that the european union is taking sides in an armed conflict and is working with ethiopia against the forces that would prefer a strict islamic regime in power. such a european policy, however well-intentioned, cannot succeed without the support of the people of somalia. it is therefore right that the resolution which will be put to the vote calls for an end to foreign military interventions and for dialogue and reconciliation at home.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. mr president, the women's committee was almost overlooked in today's debate too. luckily, she'll be on the verge of a fall. more than half the population in europe is made up of women and these women are already over-represented on the labour market in terms of temporary and part-time contracts. so women are already facing greater insecurity, poor pension provision and inadequate health care. if, as the commission and the dutch government want, the right to dismiss is relaxed, this group will only sink further into oppression and deprivation of rights. i was therefore very pleased that the committee on women's rights unanimously came up with a series of proposals which could improve the commission's proposal on this point. unfortunately, the rapporteur has chosen to adopt only a few of these widely-held proposals. in doing so, he is mocking the commission on women's rights and ignoring the real inequalities that exist. i therefore call on all members to support the amendments tabled to avoid this disparity when we vote tomorrow.
the epas have become a very controversial subject in africa and increasingly in europe. it touches on fundamental differences in understanding of the possibility of combating poverty through sustainable economic growth in acp countries. clearly, financial aid alone has not really helped to reduce poverty. we believe that these trade agreements can provide a window where we can look past years of ineffective aid. the acp countries' share of world trade has been reduced. it is now less than 1%, and the millennium development goals are not being met in africa. it's got to be different. europe has a moral duty to help the acp countries to grow economically and to increase their share of trade. the epas should contribute to this. the benefits of trade and economic integration are clear, mr president, especially in a globalising world. competitiveness, a good investment climate, market access, manufacturing industries are essential for economic growth in the acp countries. we must be flexible and pragmatic, but we must remain within the framework of the wto. the signing of the full trade agreements is no longer expected before the deadline of 1 january 2008. however, some african countries in east and southern africa have reached interim agreements. they're goods only agreements. but they must not be a step backwards for regional development. we must start quickly with the technical support for the strengthening of those countries and then eventually come to full agreements, including for example services.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european railway agency can play a useful role in the further development and application of the new ertms safety system and in reducing the dependence on manufacturers. but in other areas the need for the agency is mainly caused by increasing scale, liberalization and competition on the railway. these developments require more and more bureaucracy to ensure that everything is properly coordinated. long before the european union was created, this coordination took place in a very different way. good agreements between national railway companies which jointly organised very long distance train services, together with the compagnie internationale des wagons lits. i doubt the new model is an improvement. in principle, rolling stock approved in one member state should henceforth be automatically authorised in other member states. this situation does not yet exist even at the small-scale level of the urban electricity companies; because the sharpness of curves, the location of stops and the space between the two tracks sometimes differ, some types of trams cannot travel all routes. i expect that the railways will also make frequent use of the safety exceptions. so in practice, little will change.
i would like to begin by thanking the court of auditors for the new system of reporting to the european parliament. for years we have asked whether it was not possible to quantify the errors in the various chapters a little more. for years the court of auditors has said that this is not possible and fortunately, for the first time it is now clear that the court of auditors can also change its mind; it now produces a system of reporting with red, yellow and green. we welcome that very much and we hope that in the coming years that system will be further refined so that we can compare what the improvements are. the commission has a duty to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. because three years ago, only 6% of the expenditure was recognized as legitimate. the commission has already made a number of proposals. that's a step forward. the big question is, is this progress sufficient in the eyes of public opinion, yes or no? well, i can assure you, the answer is no. it is not possible to explain why, after so many years, this reliability report is still negative, and that is a matter of great concern. the structural funds are a bigger problem. of course, 12% is far too high. it would be good if the court of auditors could state in a future report what exactly is the situation with regard to the 12%. is it because of the wrong filling of forms, are they real mistakes? when i hear in the field how difficult it is to get access to the structural funds, it is quite incomprehensible that this control is not sufficient, because i hear more and more, leave my share to someone else, because it is far too complicated to participate in these funds. i hear that in some provinces in the netherlands. the commission's discharge procedure is now under way and i believe that the following is the key point: what action has the commission taken on the previous recommendations in parliament's discharge resolutions? for does not the treaty say that the commission must do its utmost to implement the discharge resolutions as far as possible? i think there are two things that need to be clarified - not only in a resolution but also in the treaty - with regard to the multiannual budget, namely the declarations by the member states - other people have already pointed this out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it means that parliament does not have to take responsibility for the commission as a whole, but that each commissioner is responsible for his own budget. i'd like to hear more about that. finally, the new treaty says that the commission and the member states are jointly responsible. in the light of these statements by the member states, it would be interesting to see what preparations the commission is making to implement this new convention now and in the future.
in writing. in states where different peoples live together, there are often no parties operating throughout the country. in the former austria-hungary there were various social democratic, catholic and liberal parties, each for the individual peoples, bound to their own group interests and their own language. in belgium too, national parties have been replaced by flemish and walloon parties for some decades. why should there be european parties in the eu? our party, the socialist party in the netherlands, sees parties as organizations from below, as movements of citizens who fight together for their vision of the organization of society and for the interests of the groups that give a party their confidence. parties are not part of the state apparatus and should not be created with taxpayers' money. on this basis we have rejected previous decisions on the financing of european parties and we are also against increasing that financing to 85%. we also think it unrealistic to promote european campaigns instead of national campaigns in the next european elections. that's 27 national elections under different circumstances. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are in favour of international cooperation between peers, but this does not require eu funding.
in writing. 'the peoples of europe, by forging an ever closer union among themselves, have decided to share a peaceful future based on common values.' for example, eu leaders signed the first sentence of the preamble to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in nice on 7 december 2000. and that is the core truth of this sentence. in our union we have common values and standards, which are now enshrined in the charter as rights: the european union is a party to the treaty of rome and to the treaty of rome. i think it would have been better if the eu had simply joined the european convention on human rights of the council of europe. but in the end, this is an acceptable solution. it is finally an explicit recognition of fundamental rights in the eu.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the air has become cleaner over the last 30 years, but there is still far too much air pollution. the current guidelines are not sufficiently respected. to better tackle pollution, a revision of the air quality directive is needed. last week parliament and the council reached agreement on the new directive. i am satisfied with the outcome and i thank holger krahmer, anja weisgerber and the other shadow rapporteurs for the constructive cooperation they have shown over the past two years. i would like to emphasize three points. first, the more stringent standards. my group has consistently advocated the setting of more ambitious standards for particulate matter and other pollutants harmful to man and the environment. i am therefore pleased that we have achieved a new standard for the smallest particles. that's pollution that you can't see or smell, but it's particles that cause the most health damage, causing hundreds of thousands of europeans to die prematurely. there are large numbers of people with asthma and other ailments. the new standard will allow us to tackle this health damage in a much more targeted way. so this agreement is good news for the health of the citizens. parliament has not acquiesced to the lazy ambition of the commission and the council. we asked for a bigger bet and we got it. the pm2.5 standard was lowered from 25 micrograms to 20 micrograms. this, according to scientists, will increase the average life expectancy by another 4-5 months. but even with the new standards, we're not there yet. further improvements are needed and more attention to children is also needed. and finally, we have to come up with a standard of no more than 10 micrograms of particulate matter per cubic meter of air. that's the upper limit recommended by the world health organization, and that's the guarantee of truly clean air. the directive now before us is a good step in the right direction. the second point is that europe must not only set firm standards but also develop instruments to achieve these goals. because europe is often good at setting general policy objectives, but much less good at creating the right instruments to actually achieve them. without cleaner cars, ships, agriculture and industry, air quality standards will remain a paper tiger. we have just voted on euro 5 and euro 6: cleaner cars from 2009 and even cleaner cars from 2014. this kind of legislation should be introduced soon for trucks and buses. parliament has urged the council and the commission to adopt rapidly complementary policies to tackle the sources of pollution. this has led to a commission statement listing all the measures to be taken in the coming years. the declaration will be annexed to the directive, with a reference to the directive. it is a clear political signal to the people that europe is taking cleanup action in all kinds of sectors. a third point of discussion was the flexibility of the standards. the standards of the existing directive cannot be met by 24 member states. i don't think that's a good example of good legislation. my position has always been that we should give member states who are taking all possible measures but are still not able to meet the standards some extra time to tackle the hotspots, provided that we get much stricter standards in the medium term. it is very important that the legislation we produce here is also workable and enforceable. today we are showing that the european parliament takes seriously the complaints from the member states about impossible legislation. experience shows that the air will not be cleaner if we do not take care to implement the directive. the new air quality directive is an improvement on the old directive. better and stricter standards are good for public health, for local authorities and for construction companies. we can breathe again!
on behalf of the ind/dem group. president, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, who is currently attending the bali climate conference, the following contribution: after long negotiations, an agreement on air quality is finally reached. that's quite an accomplishment. it is also very important because air quality has a direct impact on human health and the environment. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for all the work he has done to achieve this. this directive makes a real contribution to improving the environment and health. air quality has already improved significantly in recent years and will continue to improve as a result of this directive. however, a number of countries still find it difficult to meet strict standards at an early stage. i am therefore pleased that the agreement allows member states to have a delay in bringing their air quality up to standards if they make sufficient efforts. it is also important that measurements are not required in places where the public has no access and which are not permanently inhabited. this flexibility is particularly important for port areas. i am also very pleased that reference has been made specifically to source measures. in my view, source measures such as the new euro 6 standard for lorries are absolutely necessary to achieve good air quality. in conclusion, i am therefore in favour of the agreement in question and will support it in the vote.
the european parliament today, mr president, is bringing clarity to the long-running debate on the precise definition of standards to be imposed for public health reasons when it comes to particulate matter - pm25/pm10. we are making a substantial improvement today for people who are sensitive to it, for children and the elderly. i support that policy wholeheartedly. it is also clear that more customization can be provided. zoning in our somewhat highly urbanized areas is possible, which also increases feasibility without being a bargaining chip. it is also clear that the source policy is now being taken seriously and that we are also working together across borders in europe. mr president, what is not clear - at least not to me - is whether the blockage in dutch legislation for a number of projects by the comprehensive environmental and spatial planning authorization is now really off the table. it is up to the netherlands to see, also from the house of commons and the legislature, whether the cooperation programme on air quality can provide clarity on this. europe today offers a very clear framework for what is practicable, including in the netherlands. it is now up to the netherlands to use the link between spatial planning and environmental policy wisely, so that unnecessary blockages do not have to be raised again. and that is the spirit in which i am pleased to pledge my support today for the agreement reached.
i would like to draw your attention, mr president, to the relationship between the purpose of collecting data and the amount of data actually involved in such research. there is a clear bias here. there is a disconnect between what the european union is supposed to do, for example, in the field of public housing policy, and what we are all asking for. the union does not have competence in this area. nor is there any discussion in this parliament of the relationship between religion, ethnic origin and possible integration issues; it is not for the european union as such to make statements on this. what is at issue is how we allocate resources, how we allocate our structural funds. this means that the number of inhabitants in the areas concerned, the nuts areas and the statistical units must be known precisely. as long as there are no exact figures and no financial results can be obtained, this action is indeed necessary. homogeneity and reliability are paramount. i would like to make one further point - mrs novak has also made very interesting proposals in the committee on regional development. if it is an interference in the family circle, in the private sphere of citizens, we will vote against it if it remains in the proposal. perhaps - and i trust the rapporteur to do so - these aspects will be taken out of the trilogue; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. only on that condition.
mr president, sometimes it is a pity that we do not have an open debate, then i could have responded to geoffrey van orden, but i will not. the global campaign against landmines may be a great success. thousands of square miles of land are now cleared of land mines thanks to the work of people who take great risks in bosnia, in angola and in many other countries. but ten years after the ottawa convention there is still no reason to rejoice. it is true that 156 countries have signed the convention against landmines, and that trade has declined - has declined drastically - but there is still investment in the production of landmines, including by financial institutions in europe. dutch and other banks and pension funds have also been guilty of this. it is good to point out to these institutions the consequences of their investments in landmines. because since 1975 one million people have been killed by land mines. every year, tens of thousands of people fall victim to landmines. during this debate, at least three people are killed, 70 a day. 200,000 square kilometers of land have been made inaccessible by land mines, and there are still 250 million land mines in circulation. the governments of burma and russia are still laying mines at the moment and that, mr van orden, is something other than "terrorist clubs", although... the government of russia... there are still 13 countries in the world that are producing them or reserve the right to do so in the future. in the us, it's companies like alliant techsystems and textron that continue to produce mines unhindered, on orders from the us government. president. - mrs kuneva, belgium prohibits investment in landmines, but there are companies operating in the rest of europe. a colleague pointed to rheinmetall and thales. that must stop and that is exactly what our resolution is asking for, asking for again, because in july 2005 the same demand was already made by the european parliament. the eu member states must agree collectively that no european company or financial institution will in future invest in companies that develop and produce landmines. the same is true of cluster bombs and anti-vehicle bombs, which explode as soon as someone gets close. the arms industry is not impressed by ethical arguments. the threat of a shutdown could help. let the eu then take the initiative and make an exception to the rule that politics does not interfere with the investment policy of business. for matters prohibited by international treaties, political intervention is a moral and political obligation. and that should be incorporated in european and national legislation. for a world without land mines and without anti-vehicle mines, as mr beer rightly said. we'd like to hear your opinion on this, mrs. kuneva. the european commission must finally show initiative in this area. and finally, do more to clean up the mines. the money is there, the know-how is there, but the european commitment is lagging behind.
- i'm the reporter. mr president, after the commissioner's introduction, there is not really much need for debate, but i would like to explain the position of the committee on agriculture. first of all, cross compliance. i do not know how it is in other languages, but in dutch it has become a dutch word. it's common knowledge among farmers. we do support it - as the commissioner has just said - it is an essential part of agricultural production and we think it should be defended because it makes demands on agricultural production that go beyond what is necessary to ensure that the products of agriculture are fit for human consumption. we are continuing with all kinds of directives, bird and habitat directives, environmental directives, animal welfare standards, etc. the big question in all of this is: how should the control be carried out? as regards those checks, i think that the need for a broad support and understanding of the cross compliance system among farmers must also be present in the context of increasing reforms. and that is not encouraged if the methods are too bureaucratic, as they are at present. what could we change about that? firstly, there are too many control bodies in each member state at the moment and, secondly, they are coming on different days. we are clear in this report that the number of inspection bodies should be kept to a minimum, that inspections should be carried out on a single day and that the farmer should be informed of them in good time. how much that should be, that will be decided by the vote today. we also believe that the authorities should not be too serious about de minimis, for minor offences, for minor offences. we cannot put salt on all the snails and, moreover, there should never be double punishment for something which is covered by european and national legislation. that would be a double fine, and we are against that. a major point of the report is - and i think the commission is also in favour of this - that a lot of things that are controlled by the government under cross compliance are also controlled by private industries. why does it have to be both? why is it that when private industry controls something, the government would say "well, that's fine, we control that private industry from time to time and if that's good, then we don't have to control the farm itself anymore". that can mean a lot, even from the farmer's point of view. so, a very good collaboration, i think, with private industry. the commission and the council have now agreed to abolish the ten-month rule. i think that the deadline for submitting applications in the member states is a lead date for the aid application. we in the committee on agriculture think it is reasonable that the new member states should also be given extra time to adapt and we have argued that if they eventually receive 100% agricultural subsidies, they must also comply with the rules of cross compliance 100%. we don't know what the future of the system will be, but we do know that it is incredibly expensive at the moment. would it be possible for the commission to make a rough cost estimate of what it costs in each member state to implement it, how much it is in comparison from one member state to another and how that compares with the total costs associated with cross compliance? and so there are all sorts of options in that study of how it could be cheaper by working with the private industries. at the moment, it is roughly estimated that there are some eighteen directives which a farmer must comply with in order not to be deprived of income supplements. maybe there'll be more. there is a soil directive in preparation, etc. the commission must examine whether it is not possible to reduce this or that. and then i have one or two guidelines in mind. it is not possible for us to have both a nitrate directive and a groundwater directive. the groundwater directive says we must have 50 mg of nitrate per litre of groundwater (if you go above that, you are punishable), the nitrate directive says 1.7 livestock units per hectare. it's one or the other, but not both. that's too much of a good thing. one of the two must go, and i would say the nitrate directive.
in writing. the vvd euro group voted today in favour of the agreement on air quality. the agreement sets strict standards for fine dust. in 2015, the air may contain up to 25 micrograms of pm2,5. in addition, it was agreed that certain areas with high concentrations could be granted deferral if they could demonstrate that they had made every effort to improve air quality and that effective source policies had been put in place. this is very important for the netherlands, since it does not stop construction projects. the protection of human health and the environment goes hand in hand with economic development. the vvd nevertheless considers that the compromise target of 20 micrograms pm2,5 for 2020 is unworkable. it is more prudent to wait until the 2013 evaluation period before formulating subsequent targets.
once again, mr president, we can congratulate each other on the fact that after so many attempts, we have reached agreement once again. it was a difficult process and everyone who participated in it can now look back on it with a clear conscience. the big question is whether this is the most ideal procedure for establishing the budget. i think it is a good thing, when the new treaty is adopted, to consider whether it cannot be done more quickly and more effectively. we could also consider, for example, whether it is the best method to define pilot projects and preparatory actions at this late stage or whether we should do so at an earlier stage. i think the last. if we look at the negotiations, the great success of this budget is the galileo project and the european institute of technology. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. once the agreement was concluded, and you read the press releases, it was always "an agreement has been reached in the council of ministers". can't the audience just once get the idea that something else happened? it was difficult to convince the council to adjust the multiannual budget. that in itself is respectable, it is a young treaty, but there was an urgent need for it. i think we must respect the treaty, the multiannual budget, but the same applies to the council and particularly to the point in article 44 on the issue of the country declarations on sound financial management. perhaps the council could also pay attention to this.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the basis of the relationship has changed fundamentally, from domination to cooperation, from monologue to dialogue. it is rightly called a partnership of equals. europe and africa have a shared responsibility for the development of africa. europe for european policy, african governments for their policy. a common strategy was urgently needed, based on common values, mutual respect, and oriented towards the well-being of people. a joint strategy was needed to tackle the problems affecting both continents together. i'm glad the summit wasn't held hostage by mugabe. the situation in zimbabwe is unacceptable and his policies have rightly been heavily criticised. but the summit was about more than zimbabwe. in africa there are other disasters that claim many victims. think of darfur, somalia and not to forget the congo. president. - the european parliament adopted its report on the strategy in october. the joint declaration of the european parliament and the pan-african parliament was signed in the parliamentary presidium. both our presidents presented them at the opening session of the summit. the european parliament has a role to play in the preparation of the strategy and also in monitoring its implementation. and as for the action plan. unfortunately, this is still vague, also as regards the financing and the structural involvement of parliaments. i am pleased with the commissioner's assurances on this. the action plan calls for seminars, studies and evaluations. all very important, but ultimately it's about results. we all know that there is enough water, knowledge and money to give africa a better life. much depends on political will. let this strategy truly be a new start for sustainable development in africa.
president verheugen, there is indeed good news in the new treaty, but also, for example, that we have decided here today to finance four gtis for three billion euros and there is another three billion coming from the industry for clean technology, for aircraft engines, etc. on the other hand, i am still disturbed by the fact that there is a trade in outdated technology with negative environmental effects, especially from the developing countries. it is a free playground for obsolete technology, for example coal-fired power stations from the last century. what possibilities does the commissioner see, what possibilities does the union see, for at least establishing a basis for this in the context of the wto and putting a stop to this?
the new treaty is finally being signed after years of stagnation, but now the signatories must also finally take ownership for europe. it is high time that the leaders of the national stage not only shout victory over what they have dragged out, but that they actively lobby for this treaty and get it ratified so that it can enter into force on 1 january 2009. the biggest change is in the area of police and judicial cooperation. we must now quickly clarify how we will deal with the dossiers in this area in 2008, during the transitional period. what is the council's position on commissioner frattini's proposals to apply the new procedures in advance of the new arrangements? today also marks the solemn proclamation of the charter of fundamental rights. and it is shameful that the member states have weakened the charter by taking it out of the treaty and, above all, by allowing two opt-outs. now they must prove in practice that they are not just lip service to fundamental rights, but that they mean it. finally, mr president, the european union is becoming a little more democratic and decisive. but a mature democracy requires not only action but also control of power and accountability. it is time for democracy, time for accountability - also in the fight against terrorism - and i therefore expect the council to explain the role of europe in the illegal activities of the cia.
in writing. the liberalization of the car parts market has been the subject of intense debate since 1993. i believe that the time is ripe for the abolition of design rights on visible car parts. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal, since there is no functioning internal market for such components at present. for the replacement of functional parts such as exterior mirrors and lights, parts should be freely available to restore the car to its original condition. i am in favour of the introduction of european liberalization as soon as possible and i therefore vote for the shortest possible transitional period, namely five years. i am naturally opposed to amendments which open the door to the possibility for member states to reverse liberalisation during the transitional period.
mr president, extremists have been around for a long time, but in recent years they have been shaping the tone and content of the political agenda. democratic mainstream parties are far too afraid to distance themselves from extremists for fear of losing voters, and so extremism and intolerance become politically acceptable in a sneaky way. and now for something else. apart from racism and nationalism, there is also extremism against, for example, women and homosexuals - we have not yet discussed these today - often based on religious beliefs. i am appalled when i see that there are parties with governmental responsibility, governmental power, or parties that sit in parliaments - including in my own country - that promote discrimination against women, gays and people of other faiths. i would like to conclude by saying something provocative, mr president. as much as i appreciated mr ryan's intervention, i personally do not strongly support the idea of leaders of major religions coming to the plenary to speak, as long as they do not renounce their discriminatory views on women and gays.
the rapporteur, mr vernola, rightly points out that montenegro's future lies in the european union. the road to european integration is not a smooth one. the internal development of the young balkan state is worrying. in theory, montenegro may be a beautiful ecological state and an ideal development, but podgorica must make this happen in the long term. the current practice is proving to be unwieldy. for example, the volatile, exploding property prices on the gold coast around kotor pose a danger. in addition, the rapidly growing, sometimes illegal, construction industry is overburdening the country's water and sewage systems. mr vernola has said this, although it is too brief for such a serious problem. montenegro's enormous tourism growth potential also has a dark side. although the adriatic coast of the dwarf state is in full development, unemployment in the north is over 20% and poverty is above the national average. in addition, the legacy of war is still visible. the infrastructure is minimal and the population in some places is facing water and electricity shortages. the montenegrin people are still not investing productively enough in a healthy economic future. the road to development, the road to european integration, requires a well-thought-out strategic growth for the whole country. we must not act recklessly on a new european gold coast.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i would like to express my appreciation for the commission's efforts, as the commissioner has just explained. i would like to stress today the importance of world aids day and of our shared responsibility in the fight against aids. because there is a worldwide disaster, a disaster that does not get the attention it deserves. that is why my group is pleased that we are having this debate here in strasbourg today. the numbers speak for themselves. there are 33 million people worldwide who are suffering from or infected with aids, and a total of 25 million people worldwide have died from aids. yet, for many people, the disease seems to be non-existent. because aids is associated with sex, many prefer not to talk about the subject. and that makes it difficult - the commissioner said it - to inform people. the present generation of young people is paying a heavy price for this. half of all new hiv infections are among people under the age of 25. as i speak, six young people have been infected with hiv and three children have died of aids. we are talking about a generation that has not known a world without aids. the disaster is not limited to africa. in the past six years, the number of hiv infections in europe and central asia has doubled from 1.25 million to 2.4 million. it is high time that the european union took action. this terrible disease, which disrupts the lives of millions of families around the world, is preventable. aids can be fought by good education, better condom distribution and affordable medicines. the commissioner has rightly pointed out that we have allowed aids to become a forgotten disease, particularly on our own continent. the young people of europe today have not experienced the great public information campaigns of the 1990s. we need to act decisively if we're going to prevent things from getting out of hand. that is why, partly symbolically and partly because we think that is a really important step, my group last month launched a campaign to reduce the tax rate on condoms to 5% throughout the european union. the fact that vat on condoms is so disparate - in some countries even at a rate of 25% - shows that we in europe do not have a common approach to a common problem, or at least do too little about it. the portuguese presidency has given its full support to our action and we also expect a positive attitude from commissioner kovács when he discusses the european vat system at the end of next year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to thank commissioner mandelson very much for his clear statement. i had already read about it extensively in the european press. then my contribution: the future of the european textile industry is at the heart of this debate in the light of china's economic rise. the union has repeatedly failed to respond adequately to china's development. the reason for this is the union's inability to develop a clear trade policy. the european union is divided into a northern and a southern camp, whether it is a question of quotas for textiles or the reform of trade defence instruments. it is therefore high time that the member states learned to look beyond their own interests. the first step is for the northern camp to recognise that protecting its own industry against piracy and illegal state aid is not protectionism and that this protection requires adequate instruments. the southern camp must understand that the rise of china has consequences. the union must not be caught by surprise, as it was in 2005 after the expiry of the multilateral agreement. the european industry must look for niche markets in good time. the possibilities for re-introducing quotas are limited to the end of 2008.
president. - i call the commission to order the report (doc. mr mandelson will recognize that. if we are received in china, we will do so with an official symbol, the flag. today it is being removed from the treaty and i call on all countries to follow germany and to recognise it officially as a symbol again, so that we can be welcomed with an official symbol anywhere in the world.
in writing. the council and the european parliament reached agreement on the additional funding for the galileo satellite system and on external affairs expenditure, including the police mission for kosovo. to this end, they increased the multiannual financial framework for 2007-13 and made use of the flexibility instrument. in addition, there have been readjustments within the existing budget lines. those readjustments could have been more far-reaching. i have particular difficulty in adjusting the previously agreed ceiling for eu funds until 2013 and using the flexibility instrument for this purpose. their use should be avoided and in any case limited to very exceptional circumstances. if there is a change in expenditure, it must be primarily offset by reductions in other budget lines. i am thinking in particular of expenditure which does not fall within the central objectives of the european union and of budget lines which are already lagging behind the planned expenditure.
in writing. in 1918, independent montenegro voluntarily chose to join the neighboring countries of serbia, croatia, bosnia-herzegovina and slovenia. after the breakup of yugoslavia, voters in 2006 democratically decided to no longer be bound only to serbia. this made montenegro the forty-ninth independent state in europe. it is important now that montenegro becomes a normal state, not a big monaco, not a paradise for rich foreigners who like to pay little tax, launder money and build palaces. montenegro must do more to combat environmental pollution and cigarette smuggling. i am pleased that the afet committee has adopted my amendments on housing and employment for refugees from serbia and kosovo. the stateless cannot remain stateless forever and montenegro must respect the council of europe's agreements on this. my proposal to restore the north-south rail link to niksic on the bosnian border and to shkoder in albania has also been accepted. increasing road traffic is not the answer. fortunately, unlike in his previous annual report, the rapporteur, mr vernola, is not calling for rapid accession to nato, nor for an economic policy that is even more neoliberal than is usual in the rest of europe. nato membership should not be a precondition for eu membership.
- a writer. i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with these women, on behalf of all of us, i think. i'm glad this is on the agenda, because it's been a long time coming. for five months the european parliament has been debating whether or not human rights for women are really a priority. mr dillen, who is now absent, has just said that oppression of women is inherent in the koran. well, that's a load of crap, because the issue of comfort girls shows that men don't need the koran at all to oppress and abuse women. i am also a little disappointed in the attitude of the european parliament. as i said, there has been a long hesitation about this, and i hear arguments from colleagues in the european parliament, such as 'well, 90% of these girls did it voluntarily' and 'oh, that's the culture, you have to understand that'. i find that, frankly, repugnant. this is rape, and that's just always a crime in all times and all cultures. i understand that the school books have been changed in japan. but then i get a message from the japanese embassy that the story has to be told very carefully, because schoolchildren don't know much about sexuality yet and they could suffer psychological damage. no one's talking about the psychological damage of the comfort girls themselves. i find that quite shocking, to be honest. but i am glad that it is now on the agenda and that we are going to accept it immediately. i think it's important that apologies be sincere and unequivocal. it's not a formality. and if the previous prime minister abe has again questioned the whole issue, it is not enough for the current government to say "oh, but we are sticking to the previous policy". no, honest and unambiguous. and when i hear the arguments we have heard from the japanese embassy in recent days - and i do so in recognition of all that has been done - i think there is still much to be gained in the field of sincerity. i hope that this resolution will be a sign of solidarity with the victims.
author. madam president, we propose inserting the words ‘as is the moral duty of all countries’ after the first part of the first sentence, i.e. it would read: ‘encourages the japanese people and government to take further steps to recognise the full history of their nation, as is the moral duty of all countries’.
