mr. chairman, madam chancellor, i have to go. germany holds the presidency of the european union, the european parliament and the g8. we are also hearing that germany is planning to unite the two successive presidencies, the portuguese and the slovenian. it is about consistency in relations with russia in the period when the change of the president and the composition of the duma will take place there. it's about the uniformity the germans gave us. what does that tell us? the renegotiation by germany on behalf of the union of the partnership and cooperation agreement, which is now to be more pragmatic than normative, risks ignoring the interests of the countries of the former soviet bloc. that's the point of the baltic pipeline and the baltic-sassnitz freight ferry. the bilateral relations between germany and russia are to be given eu status. and then there's the issue of reviving the constitution, which has already been rejected. it is beneficial for the largest country in the union because it takes away the veto power of the smaller countries. whereas the veto allows us to defend our interests when they're being ignored.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is at a crossroads. the lack of a clear vision of the future is causing support for the european project to decline. the german presidency offers hope for breaking the current impasse, but it faces difficult challenges. i would like to draw your attention to three things in particular. the first is the revival of the constitutional process. europe needs new institutional arrangements to make it more efficient, effective and democratic. we hope that the presidency will set out a road map that will allow the adoption of a new treaty in the next two years. the treaty should strengthen the union, make it more effective, strengthen its solidarity and competitiveness and its capacity to meet the challenges of the 21st century. secondly, we expect the eastern pillar of the european union's foreign policy to be strengthened. the policy towards the eastern neighbours should be more decisive and consistent, based on the principles of efficiency and solidarity and promoting democracy and reform. we believe that this will be a policy co-designed with other countries, including poland, which can bring the necessary knowledge and experience in this field. the third issue is the security and stability of energy supplies. europe urgently needs a common energy policy aimed at ensuring security of supply, solidarity and the removal of barriers in the common energy market, as well as investment in new sources. we hope that germany will be able to propose a common policy based on the common interests and solidarity of the member states. madam chancellor, europe is suffering from a leadership crisis. germany is the largest country in the european union - that's a commitment. the success of the german presidency is not only needed by the germans, but also by all of us, the european union. i wish you the best of luck, madam chancellor.
chancellor angela merkel presented a vision of a europe based on values. that's a very good attitude. and it's hard not to agree with the set of values that make up europe - diversity, freedom, tolerance, christianity, subsidiarity. but there is another element worth mentioning: solidarity. it is difficult to imagine, for example, a common foreign policy of the union and an eu foreign minister without a deep sense of solidarity, both among the individual member states and their citizens. i therefore support president barroso's call for solidarity to be the first priority of the forthcoming berlin declaration. i don't think we're going to get out of the current treaty crisis unless we gain more public trust. and citizens can feel that trust if they are convinced that their collective security is being diligently safeguarded by the eu. security is, i think, a very broad concept for them. it covers energy solidarity, neighbourhood policy, social security and relations with third countries that try to divide europeans. the strength of europe can be found in the solidarity that allows us to spread all our values. without solidarity, we lose both unity and the ability to achieve our goals. thank you very much. thank you.
madam president! what we are witnessing is nothing more than blackmail for economic and political gain. the european union must not give in to blackmail and must take the most decisive action against it. economic interests can never take precedence over respect for human rights. this is the essence of the spirit of europe and the legacy of our historical experience. the fact that libya is one of the most important suppliers of oil and natural gas cannot obscure the fact that innocent lives are at stake. the union should stand in solidarity with bulgaria in the fight to reverse the unjust and political judgment of the libyan court, using all means at its disposal, including sanctions. the bulgarian brothers must receive from the community a clear signal that will confirm their conviction that accession to the union was of great importance and that in a difficult situation it will not abandon any of its members. this is the true meaning of the common europe to which we all belong.
madam president! i also wanted to join in the congratulations on such a great result yesterday, for you. a few years ago, under international pressure, libya renounced its official support for international terrorism. she also admitted to the lockerby bombing, but she still doesn't respect human rights and civil liberties. i am pleased to see that tripoli is opening up to international cooperation in many areas, from oil trade to the fight against illegal immigration to europe via libya. libya is a beautiful country with vast, little-known monuments from the roman empire. it needs support in developing tourism infrastructure. in short, libya needs europe, and europe needs libya. it is necessary to develop relations of mutual cooperation. but you can't agree to cooperate at any cost. the price is the lives of the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor. as the past has shown, colonel gaddafi and his country will only yield to the force of determined and consistent international pressure. today, the same mechanism is needed and necessary - the european union's solidarity in the fight for the release of those wrongfully imprisoned. commissioner, the time for backroom negotiations in the hope of finding a peaceful solution to the wrongfully imprisoned nurses is over. it didn't work, and we have to be clear about that. the commission and the european council should speak with a stronger voice, using all possible means to jeopardise libya's development of its contacts with europe and to condemn it once again to international ostracism and isolation and, as a consequence, to break all contacts with libya.
mr. chairman, please! one of the foundations of european memory is the hostile role of the arms industries in helping to provoke the twentieth century's total wars - the unpopular vote in european parliaments for the granting of armaments loans on the eve of the first world war. the creation of a harmonised european policy on arms export controls is a need of the moment in the modern world. such a policy will lead to a deepening of the european union's common foreign and security policy. the european union cannot tolerate a situation in which exports of european-made arms may contribute to human rights violations, escalation of conflicts or misappropriation of sustainable development funds in different regions of the world. i would also like to stress the need to extend the scope of legislation on arms export controls in the european union to private security companies. such legislation has already been introduced in the united states.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. my group of european socialists sees the problem as follows: in the light of mr george jarzembowski's report, we are interested in the revival of the railways and we are concerned about it. such a revitalization would mean better exploiting the potential and advantages of railways from the point of view of the european transport system. we attach great importance to the interests of passengers, including the technical and economic accessibility of railways to all social groups. finally, it is very important for us that the railway can offer an enriched, attractive market service. one of the means of doing this is to allow intra-railway competition on the international market. so liberalisation as an instrument, as a means, yes, but not as an end in itself. we agree to liberalize international transport in 2010, and we want to make that very clear - international transport, not just cross-border. we accept the council's position and proposal on the role of national regulators and the protection of public interest functions. finally, we adopt provisions which reflect the concern for the smooth operation of national passenger transport systems. in the amendments, we proposed that a report be prepared in 2012 assessing the effects of the 2010 liberalisation. we represent the same way of thinking that commissioner barrot was kind enough to present. we have high expectations for this report. the committee on transport and tourism had a great deal of discussion on the question of the possible liberalisation of national transport. we propose this as a big compromise to consider the possibility of liberalization in the period 2017-2022. at eu-15 and eu-wide level respectively. there's no clear-cut position from everyone in the group. we believe that we need to send a signal that we in europe are interested in creating a european transport system. we also take note with great satisfaction of the minister's position that the council is open to finding a compromise and a way to reach an agreement. moreover, my group welcomes the position and declaration of commissioner barrot that the commission wants to be actively involved. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs in conclusion - thank you very much.
mr. chairman, please! for the sake of time, i would like to touch on just one subject. the development of the community's railways and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and charges should depend on the definition of the functions and needs of its services, which are determined by the economy and the traveller. the development of railways should also involve cooperation with other modes of transport. this perspective can be the basis for the inflow of private capital and the european and national subsidies needed for long-term investments that will ensure the development of the railway. subsidising high-speed rail investments is important, but so is developing freight traction. we need investments to complement the cross-border links linked to the construction of the common market, to the increase of trade with the east. countries like poland have unused broadband lines at the end of which dry container ports could be built. they would relieve the burden of an inefficient road system and have a positive impact on the environment. i think that the comments made in mr jarzembowski's report will contribute to the process of liberalising rail transport and to further development in europe.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased with the results achieved in the negotiations conducted by the rapporteurs on this third railway package. the negotiations have made this package a better deal. it's not just better packaging. the package is just better. there's one thing that remains. i would like to say perhaps two introductory sentences first. well, last year in my region, in the southwestern part of poland, the railways recorded an increase in passenger traffic. it's a small increase, but it's the first one in years. so far, not only in this region, but in all of poland, we've only recorded declines in traffic. perhaps this is a symptom of the fact that railways are slowly becoming competitive with road transport. we all would. this is the canon of european transport policy. i am saying this because when new regulations are introduced on rail passenger rights, we must be extremely careful not to spoil this new trend. the railroad needs to be competitive. to be competitive, it has to be cheap or cheaper. it also needs to be well managed. and travel conditions should be of a high civilized standard. the problem is that there is a contradiction between these two objectives, if you take them very categorically. it can't be cheap and luxurious. so great care is needed to find a reasonable compromise. the tracks are coming up very slowly from the long precipice. we have to help them. we can't impose new burdens that will backfire on them.
mr. chairman, please! road traffic accidents are the most serious threat to the average citizen in the modern world. that's why it's so important that we talk about this today. i wanted to raise an issue that is not mentioned in the report, and that concerns road users who apparently do not participate in road traffic, but who are significantly involved in the accident statistics. i mean, the trees by the roadside. they used to protect against the wind and snow in the age of horse-drawn carriages, but now, in the age of fast cars, they become a deadly threat. in my country, poland, more than a thousand people die every year in collisions with trees. the second number die in head-on collisions because trees block their escape from a dangerous situation on the road. i'm very environmentally conscious and i enjoy trees in parks and forests and many other places, but roadside trees, which are a great threat, should be removed. this is one of the demands that should be included in the actions that are aimed at improving road safety. trees can replace safe fences. in many places, this would help to improve road safety.
madam president! the scale of the problem is 40,000 people die on the roads in a year. the direct and indirect costs of accidents are 180 billion euro, which is 2% of the european union's gdp. in this situation, it is indeed necessary to step up our union's action. we need to tighten the penalties for traditional traffic offences and traffic violations, such as speeding and drunk driving. but there are also new challenges: in many countries, including my own, drug-impaired driving is a growing problem. hence the druid project. the goal of halving road deaths by 2010 is an ambitious one. this is the purpose of the european commission's two recent proposals for directives on road safety and infrastructure management. they can reduce the death rate by as much as 16 percent. i am in favour of introducing the so-called zero blood alcohol limit for novice drivers and professional drivers.
madam president! the mid-term report on the road safety programme is a significant document. traffic accidents kill hundreds of thousands of people every year. to reduce these tragedies, we need to improve our prevention efforts. i consider it important to: harmonize and enforce road rules in the european union, increase responsibility for driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs (the latter is a new phenomenon), develop good educational programmes for young people and promote safety through available technical means, improve the quality of roads, their surface, develop plans for their modernization and the elimination of dangerous sections and increase the technical requirements for their construction. for example, trans-european roads should have at least six lanes. i thank the rapporteur, mrs petersen, for her excellent report.
madam president! nature intended that man, though equal and of equal worth, should exist in two forms: male and female. every culture that is shaped by religion, whether we like it or not, whether it's muslim, jewish or christian culture, has a different understanding of the relationship between men and women. and these relationships evolve over time, perfecting themselves endlessly. the commission's work on the implementation of the directive is now being complemented by the work of the committee on women's rights and gender equality in the european parliament and the present report. and let what is evolution not be revolution. let us not try to artificially, by force, modify the relationship between men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the work of the european parliament. i think the training and sensitization that the report proposes is useful, but the amounts would discriminate against the better candidates against the worse ones and could one day be used against women. there is nothing more beautiful and inspiring to man than the diversity of nature and culture. i think the differences between men and women are life-giving.
madam president! i, too, would like to congratulate you on your appointment to such a distinguished position. no legal regulation can guarantee equal rights for women. it is quite natural that we should not allow discrimination against women on grounds of sex in any way, not just in the commission's work. and dealing with these kinds of problems on a very microscopic scale is a topic that's very much on the left and in liberal circles. after all, respect for women is not guaranteed by laws but only by family education. my group, the league of polish families, recognizes the problem of discrimination against women and proposes a number of legal solutions at the national legislative level that are beneficial for women and mothers. we support and promote the role of women in social and political life. women also have a very important role to play in the european parliament. we also support the fight against violations of women's freedom and dignity. the debate on gender equality is important, but it cannot be reduced to an ideological conflict where instead of the cooperation of women and men, a specific struggle between the sexes emerges and becomes a new dogma. the fundamental question sometimes arises: is it really about equality, equality and human dignity, or is it about creating a new ideology, also here in the european parliament? i think that, together with my group, we need specific legal solutions that not only guarantee equal treatment between men and women, but also protect women.
madam president! the european parliament represents the european people - 492 million people from 27 countries. it represents, but does not reflect, the social structure of the country, as the percentage of women mps is only 30%. that's definitely not enough. in countries like poland, less than 13% of the delegates are women, and in countries like malta and cyprus, there are no women at all. the situation is no better for administrative positions of responsibility in the political decision-making bodies of the european parliament. although most committees are positive about gender equality, they do not take it into account in practice when setting their political priorities. in this context, the importance of the establishment of a high level group on gender equality, which is also intended to go beyond parliament and encourage member states to effectively implement gender equality policies, should be underlined. political groups and parties have a huge role to play in enabling women to participate fully in public life. some of them have already successfully introduced a quota system on the lists of candidates for collective bodies, others should follow suit so that in the future equality in the union becomes a fact and not just a lofty idea. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs záborská on the excellent document she has prepared and you, madam president, on taking up this excellent position and i am very proud as a woman to see you in this place.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her efforts to ensure that parliament's first reading amendments were reflected as fully as possible in this difficult and technical report. this is very important, especially in the context of the most interesting article for the libe committee on defamation. i understand the political difficulties which make it extremely difficult to reach a compromise in the council on the defamation article. however, we must remember that parliament's position at first reading was very clear on this point. the solution proposed at first reading was, in my view, the best attempt at a compromise between the interests of the victims and those of the publishers. the commission, in its amended proposal, and the council, in its common position, have abandoned the idea of including provisions on the law applicable in the event of defamation in the regulation, but the libe committee, in its opinion at first reading, considers that this issue should not be omitted. parliament's position at first reading is a reasonable approach and in line with the case law of the european court of justice. with regard to the other issues, it should be noted that conflict-of-law often follows a specific logic and that combining it with legislation relating to the common market may create problems of inconsistency. however, the exclusions in the field of unfair competition and environmental protection leading to their inclusion in special provisions unnecessarily complicate european private law and are in contradiction with the general action of deregulation and simplification of our law. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area. i hope we're just finishing up rome ii. work on a common reference framework is progressing. all these projects will, i hope, help to ensure the harmonious functioning of the common market in our great european project.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs wallis, and thanking her for her contribution to a subject of such great importance for the future of european integration. this is an important step forward in the development of the community area of freedom, security and justice. in considering the draft regulation before us today, particular attention should be paid to the fact that, above all, subsequent regulations must be consistent with the existing rules. it should be ensured that they do not impose additional burdens and thus do not hinder the smooth functioning of the internal market, but rather contribute to its development. mr medina-ortega mentioned a number of specific issues, including environmental protection and competitiveness issues. i would like to say that it is important to ensure that the questions of the applicable law are duly considered, both by the parties and by the court, thus guaranteeing legal certainty. it is necessary to ensure the harmonisation of the rules on certain matters. these include issues related to the infringement of the right to privacy of other personal property, image rights and the determination of the amount of compensation for personal injury. the parliament's first reading position to include in the regulation situations where there may be a clear closer link with the country which is the main place of publication or dissemination of information, such as defamatory information, should be supported. this approach will ensure a uniform rule for all publications, including those on the internet. the position on the application of the national law of the victim for the purpose of determining compensation in the case of accidents resulting in bodily injury should also be supported. this approach will make the free movement of persons within the internal market more attractive. it will also reduce the risk of overburdening the social security and assistance systems in the country of residence of the victim.
madam president! the political, religious, and legal debate over whether or not to use the death penalty has been going on for decades and will continue to go on. the great writer albert camus spoke out against the death penalty. a great legal battle on a european scale was waged years ago by robert badinter, former french minister of justice. usually, in these passionate debates, there are important ethical arguments, there is talk of the inalienable right to life. there are staggering numbers of executions in countries like china and india. the world's largest democracy, the united states, is also on trial. catholics, whether in favor of capital punishment or against it, can draw from the same sources, whether the gospels, catechisms, or encyclicals, entirely different conclusions and arguments. it is very difficult to say to the relatives of the victims of particularly cruel murders, often children, that the death penalty should not be used against the perpetrator, when emotions dictate something quite different at such moments. i, a citizen of a country that has been hit by the totalitarian wave of hitler's nazism and then soviet communism, would like to draw attention to the inextricable link between every dictatorship and the use of the death penalty. when i look at the history of my country, poland, from that period when whole armies of murdered people are parading before my eyes on the basis of sentences handed down by communist capture courts, the best sons and daughters of our nation, i can say only one thing, weighing the arguments for and against: only the abolition of the death penalty can put an end to the madness of fanatics ready to use the apparatus of justice to eliminate their opponents. and when freedom comes after years, free citizens can erect monuments to their murdered heroes at the top. this is a lesson from the history of my grandparents' generation and my parents' generation, and my own generation. in poland during the stalinist period, out of 1,500 death sentences carried out, only one concerned a common criminal. if the price of putting this abolitionist barrier in front of dictators of all stripes is that criminals who deserve the ultimate punishment, instead of dying on the guillotine, will spend the rest of their lives in prison without the possibility of early release, then painful as it is, it is a price worth paying.
madam president! 'the death penalty shall be abolished, and no one shall be sentenced to death or executed thereafter', reads article 1 of the sixth protocol to the european convention on human rights. this was decided in 1983, and this is what the members of the union think and do, and this is what most of the members of the council of europe think. these are simply european standards for human rights, but whether the abolition of the death penalty is only relevant to europe is a rhetorical question. of course, i'm not going to. every man has only one life, and it deserves to be protected. that's why we have to support the un moratorium on this matter. we know that the death penalty is embedded in a culture of revenge and retaliation that one must break away from. in the legal field, it is relatively easy to remove it from the penal codes, the will of the legislator is enough. it's going to be much harder to cut ourselves off from it emotionally, to recognize it as an unethical punishment and to irreversibly eradicate it from the consciousness of man, but the last sentence, if we don't do that, we're still going to be asking ourselves, can man in the 21st century still kill man in the majesty of the law?
madam president! the european union has consistently advocated the abolition of the death penalty since 1998. in october 2003, the european parliament adopted a resolution calling on the european institutions and the member states to work towards a moratorium on the death penalty in the un general assembly. the institutions of the european union and the member states should ensure that the issue of the death penalty is addressed at the current un general assembly. to bring about the submission by member states, on behalf of the european union, of a draft resolution on a universal moratorium on the use of the death penalty with a view to its total abolition and to gather maximum support for this resolution among un member states. the institutions and member states of the european union should take all possible steps to guarantee a positive outcome of the vote by the current un general assembly as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the european parliament has firmly joined the control of the systematic transfer of personal data of european citizens to the american side. parliamentary control: yes, refusal to forward: no. it appears that the transfer of data is justified because of the terrorist threat, mainly from islamic radicals. but this threat cannot be treated and used as a good excuse for arbitrary and uncontrolled restrictions on civil rights. let's not go to extremes. under the banner of civil rights, let's not take the weapons of the war on terrorism out of our hands. but on the other hand, let's give in to the control of those who, in the name of this fight, want to control us - us, that is, our flights, our finances and our privacy. the european parliament must also be closely involved in the fight against terrorism, so that the just war against global terrorism does not turn into a dictatorship and a fight against civil liberties.
the next item on the agenda is a one-minute speech on a major political issue.
mr. chairman, please! we say goodbye these days to richard kapuscinski, one of the greatest writers of our time. in his reports from all continents, in all his work, richard kapuściński gave the truth about the world in the second half of the 20th century and at the beginning of our century. in his books, he chronicled the decolonization of the 1960s, the fall of dictatorships in the 1980s, and the hopes and dark sides of globalization in our time. ryszard kapuściński is an example of a reporter and a thinker, a journalist committed to the cause of the poor and oppressed, an intellectual not tied to any system of power, always standing in latin america, africa, ethiopia, iran or poland on the side of freedom and democracy. his presence at the gdańsk shipyard during the 1980 general strike was a demonstration of solidarity with the struggle of polish workers for trade union rights and democracy. the death of ryszard kapuściński is a great loss for polish culture, for european culture.
mr. chairman, please! every presidency tries to leave a mark. europe is formally organised, looking to the future and rightly so. but europe will make a mistake if it builds this future from scratch, shaping a new man because such attempts in the ussr were and ended in failure. europe must take account of its history, both its beautiful cards and its periods of horror. it is important to highlight the values that have proven to be true and that have been the basis for overcoming periodic crises. among these are the broadly understood values of christianity, which are an essential part of the universal system of beliefs. i wish this presidency to put values at the forefront of parliament's work for a full and healthy democracy. democracy without deep values will be weak and will not do its job.
mr. chairman, please! the half-term of our parliament is a time for reviewing the past and for setting goals and programmes for the future, and the approaching 50th anniversary of the treaties of rome is a good opportunity to look ahead, not years, but decades. for although the first objectives of the european community may have been economic problems, the creation of a common market, an economic community, the life and wisdom of european leaders have extended the aims of our great european project to such great aims as human rights, democracy, freedom, solidarity and mutual aid. the challenges of our time are in the broad area of security. energy security and the fight against adverse climate change are at the forefront. it seems that we can solve these problems by introducing new technologies and innovations, but let's keep in mind social security, food security and counter-terrorism. all these tasks require the efficient functioning of the union institutions and the union as a whole.
that concludes the point of the proceedings.
the next item is the report by frédérique ries, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the promotion of healthy eating and physical activity: a european dimension in the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases (2006/2231 (ini)) (a6-0450/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the ries report, which deals with such an important problem as overweight and obesity, especially among young people, is of great importance for the future of european society. particular attention should be paid to the health of children and young people and the environment in which children spend most of their time, i.e. at school and at home. the quality of food served in the canteens of many european countries is not what is desired. the enemy of a healthy diet is the widespread availability of sweets and sugary drinks. and often, the feeding of children at home is done through highly processed foods. it's because healthy food, organic food is expensive. fruit is expensive too. the commissioner said that the eu should take action to increase the funding for organic farming, especially for soft fruit production, and thereby reduce the prices of fruit and vegetables. only a clear health policy, coupled with concrete action, can deliver results. the only way to approach this problem is declaratively, which leads to the false assumption that 'somehow it will be'. and in fact, if we don't quickly put in place the right mechanisms to support organic food so that it's widely available, it will soon lead to increased health spending in the countries of the european union. this should be addressed in the relevant committees, including the committee on agriculture, as soft fruit does not receive adequate support and subsidies in the union budget.
mr. chairman, please! until recently, we thought that the problem of overweight and obesity was primarily in the united states. meanwhile, this new disease of industrial societies is also affecting the european union and, as the rapporteur has pointed out, it is affecting children most of all. i agree with all the analyses and the conclusions of the report. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that healthy food is essential to a healthy diet, and that is becoming increasingly difficult in the union. unfortunately, for many years now, we have been held hostage by the big agribusiness companies and have been consuming what they have to offer. they, in turn, dictate to farmers the style of agricultural production. it boils down to producing more and more food, at the lowest possible cost, and of increasingly lower quality. intensive agricultural production, which encourages and indirectly forces farmers to do so, is not only damaging to the environment but also to our health. we're talking about overweight and obesity here, among other things, but -- and this is even more alarming -- scientists say that life expectancy in europe is declining rather than increasing. what's worse is that we all pay farmers to produce them, and in the end, neither they nor we benefit enough. one of the ways to solve the problems we are discussing here is to return to traditional, organic farming, which is also free of genetically modified organisms.
mr. chairman, please! improving the mental health of the population should be a priority in the prevention of overweight and obesity-related chronic diseases. mental disorders also cause binge eating and other addictions resulting from the malaise and frustration associated with a stressful lifestyle in pursuit of economic success and material prosperity. equally important, the obesity epidemic is fueled by unnatural, unhealthy, preservative-laden and artificially prepared foods, available anywhere and anytime, that disrupt the physiological sensations of hunger and fullness, and by the lack of physical activity associated with the mechanization of life. however, awareness of these and other risk factors should be reinforced by legislation for which parliamentarians and other decision-makers are responsible. but labels with ingredients and calories are not going to help when a person is sick and eats to satisfy anxiety or depression.
mr. chairman, please! everyone knows that a healthy diet and physical activity are the best cure for overweight, obesity and chronic disease. it is also well known that more than half of the population of the union is overweight or obese. these facts are known to all members of the european parliament. if so, then the question is of a fundamental nature: why do so many bright people in public office support the development of genetically modified food, succumb to lobbyists and numerous interest groups promoting and marketing products harmful to humans and their natural environment, tolerate, or even worse, create the conditions for the globalization of agriculture and the displacement of healthy food-producing family farms by the deepening degradation of the soil and the natural environment of large-scale farms? why do so many bright people harm people?
mr. chairman, please! mrs ries' report deals with a problem which is not confined to europe. the issue of healthy eating and physical activity, and the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases, has been discussed in various countries for many years. companies that make money off of obesity promote wonderful remedies that do more harm than good. diet books say that food is the best medicine, and societies are becoming more "cold". consumers seem to have too little information about nutrition and its effects. training, promotion of healthy eating in the media and information on ingredients on packaging should help citizens. it seems that these efforts should be complemented by studies in people at risk of obesity to identify nutrients that tend to accumulate in the body and those that should be consumed.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs wallis on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, containing recommendations to the commission on limitation periods in crossborder disputes involving personal injury and death (2006/2014 (ini)) (a6-0405/2006).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank mrs wallis for taking the initiative to harmonise the rules on the calculation of the number of hours worked and the limitation periods for personal injury claims in cross-border disputes. the further enlargement of the european union, the enrichment of societies, but also the freedom of movement, have all contributed to a significant increase in car traffic. unfortunately, this also increases the number of people injured in road accidents. currently, in national civil law systems, there are limitation periods ranging from very short, such as one year, to very long, such as 30 years. this is not conducive to the protection of victims, who often, unaware of the differences in limitation periods in different countries, bring actions for damages before foreign courts after the expiry of the limitation period. and then what happens? the court rejects the claim, and the injured party is left without the possibility of asserting his rights. the unification would help to introduce certain and transparent rules which would enable both victims of accidents and their representatives, whose situation i know very well as a lawyer, to pursue their claims. that is why i fully support this initiative.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to thank very much mrs. diana wallis for the work she has done. i remember the special meetings that she initiated in the legal affairs committee so that we could get to know this issue - an issue of great importance to all citizens of the european union. i cannot agree with the commissioner that the simple explanation for the laziness or delay in this legislative initiative is the formal impossibility of interfering with national legal systems. every time i take the floor here and have the opportunity to do so, i remind you that the primary duty of any parliament, of any institution with the power to legislate, is to create a law that is simple, clear and serves the citizens, a law that makes their lives easier. if today we are dealing with 27 different legal systems with regard to limitation periods for property claims related to various types of accidents, it is our duty - both of the european parliament, the european commission and the council - to find a way to change this situation and to create a law that makes life easier. because it is difficult to explain to any victim or to the family of the person who has died that formally everything has long been closed: that we can only feel sorry for her, and that the lawsuits that have been filed after the expiry of the limitation period can only be dismissed. i therefore ask the european commission to try to take all possible measures and to obtain the legislative competence to regulate this matter. i am deeply convinced that there is an understanding in the member states that this very issue, which affects hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of citizens of the european union, needs a quick and good solution. if we want to maintain the activity of union citizens which is linked to movement between countries, we must also support it with such solutions.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i would like to begin by congratulating ms wallis on her contribution to the european parliament's draft resolution. it is true that there are currently considerable differences in the european union in terms of the time limits for crossborder disputes involving injuries and fatalities. as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, the problem in this case is complex and concerns both the limitation period and the start of the period, the limitation period, the time limit for becoming aware of the event, the possibility of suspending or stopping the period, and the taking of evidence and the lodging of a statement of opposition to the limitation period. a high degree of disparity can have adverse effects on accident victims, often making it difficult for them to enforce their rights through the courts. ensuring legal certainty for all citizens of the european union and facilitating the exercise of the freedoms provided for in the treaties is a priority. i therefore ask the committee to submit a legislative proposal to the european parliament which should take account of the pertinent recommendations attached to the draft resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to congratulate ms. wallis on a great and much-needed report that meets the needs of victims of various accidents. you have rightly stressed that the union is open to its citizens, who can travel and move freely, but unfortunately there is a risk of accidents. their victims often suffer twice, once because of the accidents and the second time because of ignorance of the laws of the country where they were injured, resulting in statute of limitations and the inability to pursue legitimate claims. the proposal to introduce a minimum limitation period for crossborder claims uniform throughout the union is therefore to be fully supported. it is a proposal that protects victims, increases their ability to exercise their rights and as such deserves our full support. i hope that the commission will follow up this report by putting forward proposals for concrete solutions which take account of the well-being of people who have been harmed by the events of the past.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. having one minute to speak on the issue of discrimination against girls and women in education, speaking from the perspective of poland, i would like to note that, especially since the economic transformation in connection with poland's accession to the european union, the biggest discriminatory factor in education in poland is economic reasons. the huge social stratification, low wages, industrial decline, unemployment and lack of job prospects after university have led to an unprecedented and humiliating emigration of young people leaving their homelands for work. the situation is aggravated by the decline in the number of places in state universities, which is offset by private universities, which not everyone can afford. looking for any small imbalances in girls' access to education is a superficial approach in this situation and creating problems where there are none. although we may be in a better position, because as catholics, poles have a special respect for women, which comes from the cult of the mother of god.
mr. chairman, please! access to education is a fundamental right of every human being and it is a right that unfortunately often remains only a dead letter. although the chances of both sexes obtaining higher education are comparable, and women are even more likely to have a degree than men, the number of women at higher levels of scientific careers is falling significantly - they account for 43% of those with doctorates and only 15% of university professors. women find it more difficult to continue their education due to limited access to lifelong learning and the burden of household responsibilities. member states should ensure a flexible policy on adult education, adapting curricula in particular to the needs of women on maternity leave. it is also necessary to adapt new technologies in education to women's educational needs, for example by offering online distance learning. it is also important to evaluate policies on equal access to education on the basis of statistics that introduce a gender distinction. this will address the persisting inequalities in the acquisition of qualifications, especially in higher and lifelong learning. the european commission and the member states should also combat widespread stereotypes discriminating against women in the workplace, inter alia by facilitating women's access to decision-making positions in the fields of economics, politics and science. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs flasarova, on a very well-drafted document.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr devie on the very important report on the strategic partnership between the european union and the pacific islands. the european parliament supports the commission's view that there is a need for a stronger political dialogue with the pacific islands forum, whose leaders have adopted a new agreement establishing the forum as an intergovernmental organisation under international law. we also stress that the strengthening of regional dialogue must also address the needs of the poorest countries in the region. the exploitation of natural resources must contribute to generating income for all pacific islanders and, in particular, to reducing poverty. the european parliament stresses the importance of tourism to the region, given that one of the pacific islands' greatest assets is their landscape. the promotion of tourism in the region must go hand in hand with the provision of more tourism services by the islanders themselves in order to ensure the sustainability of the tourism sector and maximise the benefits to the local economy. i would also like to stress that the report emphasises the support under the 10th european fund for the development of the technical education and training system in the countries of the region. the european parliament shares the commission's view that political instability and conflict can have a destructive impact on the region's economic development, in particular in the context of loss of tourism revenues and destruction of economic infrastructure. we note the situation in east timor, which was affected by violence in may and june 2006, and express the hope that the commission, in close cooperation with the international community, will help the east timorese leadership to address the underlying problems of the crisis, taking into account the need for political stability, poverty alleviation, social development and reconciliation between different social groups.
i would like to express my support for the premises of the report by nirji deva on eu relations with the pacific islands enhanced partnership strategy. i hope that this much-needed document will usher in a new era of eu-pacific relations. given that european countries have been involved in the pacific region for thirty years and are important donors to it, it is essential to develop a long-term strategy. this is still the last area in the world for which the union has not developed a comprehensive strategy. the adoption of such a document is an excellent opportunity to establish new relations with this region, both economically and politically, which islands play a very important role in stabilising the climate and possess an extraordinary wealth of natural resources, minerals and fish. this would be a partnership with a region that is the world's leading tuna fishery and which produces one third of the world's tuna catch. my support for the above document is also linked to the need to promote democracy and stability and prevent pathologies in the pacific region. the eu, historically linked to the islands, should support them in achieving the millennium development goals. by adopting the enhanced partnership strategy, we have the opportunity to improve the economic and social objectives that the eu can engage in other ways than just by supporting former colonies.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i fully support the view that the statute of the european private company should take account of the provisions of community law and should not refer to national legislation. it is intended to create a new legal form for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine of every european economy. the new legal form will also help to develop cross-border activities. we must also consider joint action to develop the internal market and thus growth. by creating a single european legal form, we will reduce the cost of advice. in the case of cross-border activities, the laws of many countries will not apply, but we will have a uniform statute. in order to become competitive in the market, the company must be flexible, it must be able to adapt to market requirements. and this could be achieved by a broadly understood transformation capability. however, here the question of harmonising the law arises, for example in the field of cross-border transfer of company seats. however, in order to be able to function properly on the market, such a company must focus primarily on the security of commercial contacts and the protection of the company's creditors. but we'll have to think about that.
madam president! i would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good and comprehensive report which i believe is an important signal to small and mediumsized enterprises that it will soon be much easier for them to develop and operate in the european single market. it is also a signal to the sme sector that european legislators are aware of the role that smes play in the union market and are working to improve their position. the main objective of our action in the common market should be to achieve an optimal situation where european companies, when moving from one country to another or establishing their branches in different countries of the union, do so in the same way as if they were moving from one region of their country to another, without unnecessary formalities and commercial and technical obstacles. all businesses across the union should operate on the same basis and only then can we talk about a common european market that benefits everyone. the report by the honourable member is another step in legislation to help the sme sector to operate more efficiently in the common market. its consequences will certainly contribute significantly to the growth of european companies' economic activity and, consequently, to the improvement of our lives and to the fulfilment of one of the objectives of the lisbon agenda. as a former businesswoman who has been running her own business for 15 years and has created jobs for around 100 people, i am very familiar with the problems of entrepreneurs and i am convinced that the proposal to create a european private company statute is a great and much needed solution for companies with cross-border activities. however, we must be careful and learn from the mistakes made in the creation of the european company, where, through numerous references to national law, the company does not quite fulfil its role as a european company. therefore, the statute of the sep should be based mainly on community law with as little reference to national law as possible. this will bring greater consistency in the text, the legislation and, most importantly for businesses, legal certainty. we should do our utmost to ensure that the statute is as uniform as possible, referring as little as possible to the individual legal systems and as much as possible to community law.
madam president! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr lehne, on his contribution to a subject of such great importance for the future of european integration and the development of economic cooperation within the internal market. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the european company law. a legal form is therefore needed that will also offer ease of cross-border activity to small and medium-sized enterprises. we must remember that smes are the main engine of the european economy and the main source of employment for european union citizens. therefore, further attempts should be made to make the business more attractive to these operators. however, the new legal solution we are offering to our entrepreneurs requires careful analysis. we must build on the experience gained in introducing the european joint stock company form into the common market. the work on its statute took many years and was the result of a compromise. the compromise reached is not entirely satisfactory. so we have to, as mrs handzlik has already mentioned, learn from our mistakes. the statute of the european private company should, as far as possible, be a uniform european legal form. it must allow the rules of creation and organisation to be simplified. a balance must be struck between the protection of creditors and the flexible structure of the company and the security of commercial contacts. in order to maintain the flexibility of those entities, they should also be provided with flexibility for transformations, such as a transfer of their head office or a merger. the european parliament's initiative to make recommendations to the commission on the statute of the european private company is therefore fully justified.
madam president! the idea of creating a european private company statute is a very important project for accelerating the economic development of the european union, for at least a few reasons. first, the union's economic growth, measured in terms of gdp growth, is more than twice as low as that of the united states and several times as low as that of the countries of south-east asia. secondly, the common market created by the free movement of capital, goods and services still has many internal barriers. thirdly, the european private company project is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the economies of all the countries that make up the european union. fourthly, the european private company would be an important instrument for implementing the lisbon strategy, which places great emphasis on removing barriers to the development of european entrepreneurship. for these reasons, the idea of creating a european private company statute should be supported. however, the mistakes made in the process of creating the statute of the european company should not be repeated. despite the laborious and lengthy process of creating such a company, it was not accepted by the market. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the statutes of the european private company contain as few references as possible to the national law of the member states, that its form is relatively flexible and that it is safe for both its owners and its counterparties.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are right to raise the need for greater liberalisation of the public procurement market today. it is a pity that this determination was lacking in our parliament when we spoke of the liberalization of services on our continent. because, in fact, it's the same thing. it's good that we're talking about expanding the geographical scope of the gpa agreement. it's a pity that a few months ago we didn't take the opportunity to significantly deepen the service market here. and in both cases, it is not just about the better functioning of large companies, but perhaps especially small and medium-sized companies in europe. i support the negotiation of such agreements which will ensure that we have a share in the chinese public procurement market, but let us also bear in mind the real opportunities for the other side to participate in the european market, as mrs mann has just said. for our chinese partners, there are two sides to this coin and i think we should also pay attention to the specific challenges that exist for the european market in this context.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. just a brief explanation of the change: the report shows many negative aspects of so-called feminism or segregation, therefore i think it is worth including something positive. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the 'european strategy for the environment' (2007-2013) and a communication on the 'european strategy for the environment' (2008-2013). therefore, i am surprised that mrs flasarová is against it. is it politically or psychologically correct?
in writing. i have not signed and do not intend to support in the vote the joint motion for a resolution by the political groups on a worldwide moratorium on the use of the death penalty. while fully recognising the legal and international constraints that poland's membership of the council of europe and the european union has brought to this area, i do not share the belief that abolishing the death penalty in other parts of the world is the solution to the problem of rape and brutality. i think we should protest against the abuse of capital punishment and its barbaric execution, as happened in the case of saddam hussein or barzan ibrahim al-tikriti. however, the complete abolition of the death penalty for criminals, terrorists and bloodthirsty dictators in the most unstable and violent regions of the world is an irresponsible, fruitless and harmful postulate. the european union, by seeking a global moratorium, cannot offer any meaningful public security assistance to countries ravaged by violence. we can also speak of the hypocrisy of the italian government's initiative, which the eu is now taking part in.
in writing. i have not signed and do not intend to support in the vote the joint motion for a resolution by the political groups on a worldwide moratorium on the use of the death penalty. while fully recognising the legal and international constraints that poland's membership of the council of europe and the european union has brought to this area, i do not share the belief that abolishing the death penalty in other parts of the world is the solution to the problem of rape and brutality. i think we should protest against the abuse of capital punishment and its barbaric execution, as happened in the case of saddam hussein or barzan ibrahim al-tikriti. however, the complete abolition of the death penalty for criminals, terrorists and bloodthirsty dictators in the most unstable and violent regions of the world is an irresponsible, fruitless and harmful postulate. the european union, by seeking a global moratorium, cannot offer any meaningful public security assistance to countries ravaged by violence. we can also speak of the hypocrisy of the italian government's initiative, which the eu is now taking part in.
in writing. i have not signed and do not intend to support in the vote the joint motion for a resolution by the political groups on a worldwide moratorium on the use of the death penalty. while fully recognising the legal and international constraints that poland's membership of the council of europe and the european union has brought to this area, i do not share the belief that abolishing the death penalty in other parts of the world is the solution to the problem of rape and brutality. i think we should protest against the abuse of capital punishment and its barbaric execution, as happened in the case of saddam hussein or barzan ibrahim al-tikriti. however, the complete abolition of the death penalty for criminals, terrorists and bloodthirsty dictators in the most unstable and violent regions of the world is an irresponsible, fruitless and harmful postulate. the european union, by seeking a global moratorium, cannot offer any meaningful public security assistance to countries ravaged by violence. we can also speak of the hypocrisy of the italian government's initiative, which the eu is now taking part in.
mr. chairman, please! the events of the last few days have once again shown the true face of the polish-russian meat dispute. it is political in nature and is an attempt - on the one hand - to punish poland for the independent democratic direction of the systemic changes and the exit from russian influence, on the other hand - it is a test of cohesion and an attempt to break the solidarity of the european union. russian political elites are watching closely to see whether the union will stand in solidarity in defense of one of its member states or not. i believe that the time has come for the european union to take a more decisive stance on this issue, to take a stand and to use effective instruments to resolve this dispute. all attempts so far have been fruitless. the only solution is to take a hard line and show the strength of the entire european union that russia has to deal with.
mr. chairman, please! contrary to the european community's stated mission to establish an area of freedom, security and justice, the european media have accused and attacked public figures, especially those who are ideologically uncomfortable. that's why we appealed and wrote a statement demanding that media harassment and terrorism be recognized as manifestations of violence, as being in line with human rights. without proving his guilt, a media lynch was used to prevent the polish archbishop from taking over the warsaw metropolis. similarly, the european media are scaling up the slander of the holy father benedict xvi and the long-time charismatic monk, the founder of the only truly free radio in poland, but also other people opposed to the idea of the logic of decay characterizing the new left. we strongly urge respect for the values on which the european union was to be founded, namely respect for the dignity of the human person, freedom, democracy, equality, respect for human rights and the right to freedom of religion.
mr. chairman, please! a member of the european parliament shall not be bound by any instructions. that's what the election laws in our states say. what's the real story? in the last few days, we have witnessed an attempt on the independence of the parliament. parliament was in crisis over the election of the chairman of the foreign affairs committee. this position, based on previous findings of the chadian faction, was given to a pole, saryusz-wolski. from that moment on, the scandalous pressures on the poles began. the german chancellor, angela merkel, called the head of the party of the candidate for the presidency of this committee of the european parliament to ask him to withdraw his candidacy. the former german chancellor, helmut kohl, called one of the polish politicians on the same subject. finally, the former chancellor of austria, schüssel, and the prime minister of luxembourg sent a special letter to the epp group on this matter. all this to ensure that the foreign policy of the european parliament is directed by its current president, the german politician brok. is this the free and unfettered exercise of the member's mandate? i don't think it was. the interference of the highest state authorities of germany, austria and luxembourg in this matter violates the independence of parliament, it is a mockery of democracy, mr president. i ask that the independence of this parliament be defended in the future.
madam president! the definition of waste is very broad. however, it seems that we should call waste, with a clear definition, those residues of production processes which we cannot use as raw materials or additives to other production processes at the current stage of development of technological processes. a lot of waste can be recycled in this way, but unfortunately, a lot of it can't be recycled in any way. they are present in most chemical process residues. i'd like to highlight two of them. the first is chlorides, which are residues from the production of phosphorus fertilisers. the wind blows away entire mountains, causing acid rain, including in scandinavia. there are at least two such places in poland: near szczecin and gdańsk. how many are in the european union, ukraine, russia? the second is the 'hot spot' there are several in the eu, including one in jaworzno near kraków. over the years, more than 150,000 tons of waste from a nearby plant protection plant has accumulated there. at one time, cyclone b was also produced there. the chemicals are washing away the water, and the sewage is poisoning the nearby river and the soil hundreds of feet below ground. we don't know how to destroy this and other waste, what to do with it. i ask that the environmental protection agency and research institutes become more involved in developing ways to dispose of chemical waste.
madam president! the consumer lifestyle of europeans is responsible for the generation and storage of an increasing amount of waste and therefore recycling proposals are an important element of prevention. however, introducing such complex legislation in a directive covering many different waste streams and different treatment methods will be a difficult task, especially for local governments and small businesses. and over-reporting is not going to solve the problem. poorer local authorities in the new member states, with no experience of waste separation and no funds, may not be able to cope, and in addition, the strictly imposed penalties that member states will face for not implementing the provisions of the directive will impoverish even more local authorities, small and medium-sized enterprises, causing us to eventually run out of money to achieve environmental goals.
mr. chairman, please! mrs jackson's report on waste and mr blochland's report on recycling are of great importance to us, to the environment. unfortunately, studies of biological wastewater treatment in non-industrial mountain areas have shown heavy metals in the wastewater. this disqualifies the use of this waste for fertilisation. it also shows that the process of environmental pollution is a continuous process. in eastern europe in particular, there are landfills of expired pesticides, waste that is left over from plants that have been decommissioned, leaving buildings and land often contaminated. a good recycling organization can help to solve some of these problems. unfortunately, implementing the best laws does not solve the problems. the effectiveness of action in this area is limited by: lack of knowledge about the harmfulness of waste and its disposal (schools and media should provide constant information on this subject); lack of resources for waste management, especially in poor municipalities (such municipalities should receive support from national and european union funds); insufficient exchange of best practices in this area.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's economies generate huge amounts of industrial waste and increasing amounts of municipal waste. the average person produces half a ton of waste a year. the most beneficial and sustainable way to tackle the problem of waste is to prevent it from being generated. our wasteful and wasteful use of natural resources has a huge impact on the environment. however, we can effectively counteract this by taking preventive measures: reducing the quantity, reusing the products, and recycling the waste and recovering secondary raw materials. i would like to draw attention to some particularly striking proposals in the report put to the vote. this concerns the change of status of the waste thermal disposal plant to waste thermal energy plant. the reclassification of waste incineration plants will mean that, in the light of eu law, the transport of waste to be incinerated between eu countries will be legal - the transport is legal for waste to be transformed. this will contribute significantly to the influx of waste into the new member states from the richer parts of the union, where waste incineration is much more expensive. in poland alone, up to nine new waste incineration plants, which are currently in the planning phase, could be built with eu funds. this would be a very unfavourable use of eu money for the environment and society. the situation in which a few poorer european countries become the incinerator of the whole of europe, thus emitting huge amounts of carbon dioxide, is unacceptable. and that's exactly what the 116th, 133rd, and 135th amendments provide for. waste incineration contributes to climate change and pollution and increases our dependence on imports of valuable materials that could be recovered through recycling. a similar position was taken by four visegrad group environment ministers in may 2006. i therefore appeal to all members to take these concerns into account and not to vote for the change in the classification of waste.
mr. chairman, please! the directive provides that the harmonisation of terminology and definitions of waste is to improve the efficiency of waste management in the community. however, the current draft still presents many interpretative problems due to the imprecise terminology. for example, a definition of material recycling has been introduced which says that it is 'the recovery and processing of waste into products, materials or substances for use for their original purpose or other purposes', but does not specify what these 'other purposes' are. nor does it distinguish between goods which may become waste and materials and substances. in its view, for example, own scrap in the mills can be treated as waste, which completely bypasses the recycling loop through the market to the plant and can become an element of abuse. i would also like to say that another issue already raised by my colleagues here, namely the minimisation of the costs, including social costs, of implementing the directive depends to a large extent on a more balanced approach to recycling and other forms of recovery and a certain liberalisation of the hierarchy principle - i am thinking here of those countries which are not yet prepared for expensive recycling. instead, effective collection, segregation and dismantling systems should be developed so that the average european citizen is interested in collecting and recycling material rather than incineration. and i'm afraid i didn't find that in the directive.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on the role of women in turkish social, economic and political life calls for more effective implementation of the community acquis in the field of women's rights and gender equality. however, it is already clear that the union's strong diversity means that many of its recommendations do not have the desired effect and give rise to many conflicts and contradictions and are contrary to freedom. the cultural, religious and customary differences between the two communities are enormous, and it would be advisable to enable turkish women to find their own way of solving problems, rather than imposing on them a way of thinking and solving problems that is foreign to their traditions and culture. the task of a community of states based on the principles of dignity and freedom enshrined in the documents should be to support the fight against poverty, violence and the promotion of education, and not to impose on the turks a worldview alien to them, which is a manifestation of violence that the union allegedly does not tolerate.
mr. chairman, please! the low participation of women in turkish social, economic and political life is primarily a result of the lack of adequate access to education. in the light of the changes that have already been made, however, the high level of illiteracy among girls and women remains. unicef estimates that every year, between 600,000 and 800,000 turkish girls are not in school because their families prevent them from going, or because they have difficulty getting to school. these are not the only problems facing women in turkey. the widespread use of violence against women, honour killings and forced marriages are violations of the fundamental human right to decide on one's own life. in some parts of southeastern turkey, girls are not even registered at birth, which consequently denies them rights of citizenship, such as access to education and health care. the participation of women in turkish political life is very low and there is still no standing committee on women's equality and rights in the turkish parliament. the government of turkey should implement the relevant legislation on women's rights as soon as possible and ensure that it is effectively applied in practice. public institutions such as the judiciary, the police, the health system must guarantee protection and all possible assistance to women who suffer violence. the social partners should also play an important role in promoting women's rights by organising debates or training sessions that show women as full citizens of turkey who are making a significant contribution to the economic and social development of their country. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs bozkurt on this important report, which will hopefully contribute to further positive changes in the lives of women in turkey.
mr. chairman, please! i've got my fingers crossed for you. this is the first time you've presided over a meeting. i hope it's a good debut. i see the upside of this. confiscated, unspent alcohol is obviously better for your health. for me, this case has no theoretical dimension. i'm one of millions of victims of this order. on several occasions, like one of my predecessors, my shaving cream and deodorant were taken from me. at the same time, i managed to carry a knife in my carry-on twice in the same time. the knife was a tourist souvenir, but it could be made into a dangerous object much more easily than a man's shaving cream. there's no consequence to it, as you can see. in addition, the level of restrictions varies from airport to airport. some can carry more in hand luggage, others less. but these rules must be uniform, and thus easier to accept. all of this is done in an atmosphere of secrecy, which causes irritation and resentment. the commissioner says that the european commission is following the procedures. perhaps, but is it also common sense? unfortunately, i'm not sure, and the commissioner, i'm sorry, didn't increase that certainty.
the commission's vice-president mr president, i would like to make things very clear between us. there are two ways to approach the problem. i have reacted firmly and clearly to the concerns that some of you have expressed about the regularity of the proceedings. i answered truthfully, as i should in my soul and conscience. i am aware of the difficulties involved in applying it, and i am very attentive to it. i'm completely open, contrary to what you said. i am in most cases; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on these occasions i was subject to the same rules as all other passengers, and i was even subject to a fairly systematic search in zurich. i understand the problems as well as you do, and i do not want to give you the impression that this debate seems to me to be entirely unnecessary. it is important for me to understand the difficulties and i thank you, each of you, for helping me to understand them. but be careful, just because control has imperfections, doesn't mean that all control should be condemned. it's like speeding on the highway. the fact that the checks carried out are flawed does not mean that they are useless. i will try to answer some of the points raised and then draw conclusions. i would first like to remind you that we have drawn up guidelines, which are sufficiently detailed to ensure the most uniform application possible in all the member states. that's one thing. you raised the issue of transit passengers. i'll answer you more thoroughly. it is true that we now have to go through the international civil aviation organization, in order to ensure, among other things, the conclusion of bilateral agreements. you're right, that's the way to do it. and i think we must solve the transit problem, which is not satisfactory at the moment. we're all agreed on that. we shall have the opportunity, during the general assembly of the international civil aviation organization, to raise the problem and see what can be done by third countries. you're absolutely right, and i wanted to point that out. i would also like to say that i am very aware of the problem of duty-free sales. i myself have received the irish representatives who have had a very good experience with duty free and you can imagine that i too, as a frenchman from regions where quality products are promoted, feel concerned. i do not think that the solution is perfect, but i think that we have tried, in view of the regulations we have adopted, to find solutions for duty-free. but i am also very attentive to this problem and you can of course contact me personally in this area by letter. mr el khadraoui was right to say that there was a real need for an assessment. i would like to confirm to you, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's commitment to re-examine the regulation on a regular basis. the first review, which is being prepared, will obviously have consequences for the situation at airports and for passengers, in the light of technological developments. so you're right, we need to do regular assessments. an evaluation is in fact under way and, subject to the confidential nature of certain provisions, i shall be quite prepared to report on it. as regards research, you say that technology would allow us to avoid restrictive measures for passengers, for example by installing sensors capable of assessing risks. it's obvious. a research effort is therefore required in this case. i have seen during my time in washington how we can work with the american research services to design equipment that will allow us to avoid these constraints. that is obviously a major element. i did not reply to a point raised in the first part of the debate. these are the issues related to the sagas stakeholder consultative group on aviation safety. the commission has set up sagas to be able to gather the views of the various sectors of industry. it is true that the thing is indispensable. when parliament proposed, at first reading, an amendment to the new framework regulation to make the existence of sagas official, mr berman, the commission expressed its support. and i confirm that support. parliament is quite right to want to formalize the structure of sagas in some way. but it is true that the sagas opinions only feed into the work of the regulatory committee. each initiative considered by the committee is reviewed by all commission departments and attention is given to aspects such as civil rights, consumer rights and legal aspects before the commission takes a decision. i'm well aware that i haven't answered everyone. i was asked whether the provisional measures were temporary or permanent. i am convinced that in this area we can hope that new technologies and equipment will enable us, at some point, to suspend these measures which were taken in an emergency on the basis of the unanimous testimony, i must say, of experts from each of the member states. that is why we have introduced these rules. i am sure you will agree that i am very much concerned with the development of air transport and the comfort of passengers, and i am not happy to see this regulation being applied. i can tell you that this debate has been useful and that we will be more attentive than ever to all the problems you have raised with each other, without forgetting that the safety rules will only be truly effective if they are applied by the whole world community. in this respect, the world's civil aviation regulator, icao, must also be able to deal with the matter quickly and enable us to conclude as many bilateral agreements as necessary with third countries. mr president, while i thank the members for their very frank comments, i would like to assure them that the procedures have been followed. but i am well aware of the many problems of daily life which the application of these measures raises, and i am attentive to them and will take them into account in the very precise evaluation which the impact of these measures requires.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next part-session. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending and extending decision no 804/2004/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 establishing a community action programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the community's financial interests (hercules ii programme). mr. herbert bösch has prepared a good report. the amendments to the preamble better reflect the criteria and the purpose of this regulation. the proposed amendment provides for better instruments for implementing the action programme and strengthens the monitoring of its proper implementation. the additional funding of eur 67 million per year for the hercules ii programme can have a significant impact on reducing smuggling and counterfeiting.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a commission regulation (ec, euratom) amending regulation (ec, euratom) no 2342/2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of council regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. the rapporteurs ingeborg gräßle and borut pahor have produced a good report, taking account of numerous amendments. the regulation introduced at the same time brings more flexibility and transparency to the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. this solution better safeguards the community's financial interests, while at the same time giving the committee on budgetary control greater transparency in its assessment of the correct implementation of the community budget in the relevant section.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of the lisbon strategy has been hampered by political differences in the economic strategies of the member states. it also extends to the union. if we want the objectives of the strategy to be achieved, we must design a new political balance. countries that are reluctant to have expensive and complex regulations, such as poland, the uk and the baltic states, must retain a measure of control over the legislative process. that's not what the constitutional treaty guarantees. hence my personal appeal to the german presidency: please do not follow the logic of 'constitutional treaty or death' which is very fashionable in this house. this is a logic that will do the european union a great deal of harm, particularly in the area of regulatory and economic policy. the same is true of the efforts to improve the quality of european law. if we want the objectives of better regulation to be achieved, we cannot avoid the question of the division of powers in the european union, of the political balance in the union. the reform of the treaty should be subject to the same pragmatic cost assessment as the law enacted on the basis of the new council's rules of procedure. the constitutional treaty is not an ally of these aims.
mr. chairman, please! the lisbon strategy, once described as a collection of wishes to god, was revised in 2005 to reflect the real priorities of european societies. but the sheer volume of documents on the subject highlights the challenges we must urgently face today. these are: ensuring energy security for all of europe, not just for selected european countries. in the same area, there are incentives for renewable energy. secondly, to remove the remaining barriers to the free movement of workers within the union and to monitor continuously the application of this principle by the member states. this will prevent unfair, even slavish, treatment of workers from countries other than the employer's. finally, the union should abandon the idea of economic competition with the united states, which is totally ineffective, and replace it with good and close partnership.
mr. chairman, please! europeans generally do not understand what the lisbon strategy is. i'm afraid that we politicians, too, often get lost and miss the point. we amend the law, we issue directives, and it doesn't change the nature of the problem. the european union's competitiveness is primarily due to entrepreneurs who introduce new technologies, but also new production methods, organisation and the ability to convince others of their ideas, both in large companies and in small and medium-sized enterprises. it seems that we in europe lack the spirit of entrepreneurship, the culture of business - especially when compared to the united states. we underestimate the idea of freedom, which is associated not only with freedom of action but also with responsibility. small and medium-sized enterprises are the basis for the work of civil society, responsible civic self-government. we should teach this from the first grade of elementary school, we should teach our young citizens respect for honest entrepreneurship. these values should also be promoted in europe's public media, and european union money should be used to support the promotion of the best european competitiveness of the past and present. maybe then we'll stop worrying about the millions of unemployed people, and many of them will start their own businesses. perhaps then we will stop worrying that our entrepreneurs and our industry are not innovating and are not using the results of scientific research, which is very good in europe. i wish the commissioner and the european commission every success in this endeavour, including in the field of information. and it will be a success for the whole of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! today, we are once again debating an agenda for europe that should be ambitious, clear and responsive to global challenges. this time we must pay particular attention to the problem of the common energy policy, which is a very important political and social issue at the moment. it should be borne in mind that the recent increase in energy prices will become an increasing problem for global energy markets and economic development in the future. a clear european energy policy strategy has not yet been formulated. member states continue to focus on their own strategic objectives, which are then reflected in their national policy decisions. this leaves little room for cooperation at european level. the european energy policy, on the other hand, is a matter of common action and solidarity. the european commission president, barroso, rightly pointed out this afternoon that if we want our partners to take us seriously on energy policy, the union must speak with one voice, not twenty-seven. solidarity is particularly needed to ensure the security of energy supplies. the european union must have a unified position in its talks with the main energy suppliers in order to achieve a solid, long-term partnership and energy cooperation agreements. in addition, energy policy is also indirectly linked to the priorities of the new lisbon strategy, namely boosting economic growth and developing the labour market. with regard to this european strategy, the council rightly proposes that the focus should be on four areas at present: economic policy based on stability and growth, development of the internal market, innovation, research and education, and employment growth and development of the european social model. however, the lisbon strategy still requires a greater commitment from member state governments to its implementation. to maintain sustainable growth, we also need to strengthen the environmental and social dimension of the lisbon strategy, in particular in the context of job creation.
member of the commission. well, first of all, i have not been going there non-stop. i was there once and then i established a group together with some others and we are working in a confidential way because it is a very delicate case. now, let me say it is also not true that we have never reacted. on the contrary, we have reacted very clearly and have tried to get the nurses out. we had hoped that this would happen recently. unfortunately, this was not the case. unfortunately, in december 2006 the death penalty was reconfirmed. we had hoped for a totally different judgment. with regard to the question of the accusation concerning the hiv/aids infection, i must tell you that the conclusions of the most recent council of foreign ministers clearly state, ‘this verdict ignores strong evidence from world-renowned international experts as to the innocence of the defendants’. so, all these questions are clearly on the table, as i said. bear with us. there is also a little bit of confidence necessary and a little bit of confidentiality. it is a highly delicate case, but we want to resolve it.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the thing is, as i said earlier, we have not yet entered into an international framework with libya. that is why it is not so easy to use economic power here. but we have used economic power in a different and positive way, as was confirmed in the council conclusions of 22 january this year. firstly, we have already set up an action plan by the commission in 2005. secondly, we have joined with others in setting up the benghazi international fund, through which we are trying to provide aid, especially, of course, for the children infected with aids.
member of the commission. mr president, the issue of security of supply is of particular importance for the european union and a number of events over the past few years highlight the need for the european union to reinforce its policy measures in this area. let us remember the wake-up call we had last year between russia and ukraine and this year between russia and belarus. i would like to try to provide you today with a short summary of the different initiatives that the commission has taken to increase our security of supply in general, and in particular in the relationship with the russian federation. energy supplies from the russian federation play an important role in meeting europe’s energy needs, accounting for nearly 30% of the eu’s oil imports and 44% of our gas imports. at the same time, 67% of russia’s oil and gas exports are delivered to the european market and, given the mutual importance of this relationship, an energy dialogue was established in 2000 between the russian federation and the eu to discuss energy-related issues, including energy policy, market developments, infrastructure and eu-russia energy cooperation on technology and energy efficiency. in addition, there is a roadmap for the common economic space that was agreed during the eu-russia summit in may 2005, and that includes cooperation on wide-ranging issues of energy and related activities. moreover, a new agreement is to be negotiated with the russian federation to follow on from the existing eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement which expires at the end of the year. it is now intended that this will include a comprehensive agreement on energy. let me also point out that in the recent communication, ‘an energy policy for europe’, the commission formulated quite a number of proposals to mitigate our growing dependence on external energy supplies and to increase our energy security. the commission underlines that there is no singular solution, but there has to be a variety of different initiatives that must be pursued. they include increased energy efficiency, promotion of renewable energy sources, the diversification of energy supplies, proper functioning of the internal market and internal solidarity mechanisms to cope with possible supply interruptions, including through cooperation with the international energy agency. furthermore, the importance of strengthening our relations with all our key energy suppliers and transit countries and for the eu to speak with a single voice is also underlined in the communication. in response to recent interruptions in the energy supply field from russia through belarus, the commission also convened meetings earlier this year of both the gas coordination group and the oil support group, which comprised, inter alia, representatives of the member states. these meetings to which the third countries concerned were invited to give information then reviewed the impact on the eu’s internal energy security of the events in question and how to respond. finally, with reference to the area of strengthening energy dialogue, the commission is committed to maintaining and to reinforcing our energy relations, not only with the russian federation, but also with other important energy-producing countries and regions like norway, the countries of the opec, the gulf cooperation council, the countries of the caspian and the black sea basins, central asia and north africa through bilateral agreements and energy dialogues.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank the european commission for its interest in the supply of energy resources to all the member states, but i would like to point out that russia - in my view - continues to use the supply of these resources as an attempt to exert political influence on the member states and third countries. unfortunately, it's already very clear. i would also like to ask whether the european commission's support for the northern gas pipeline, i.e. the baltic gas pipeline, is a sign of solidarity between the member states of the european union or a sign of the lack of solidarity.
madam president! i would like to begin by congratulating you on your election and chairmanship of today's debate, and also to thank you on behalf of all of us for the much-needed tolerance of the time limit in today's debate. madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, ms katerina batzeli, for the months of work she has put into the report on wine reform and for the excellent coordination of the work on this document in the committee on agriculture and rural development. i share the need for a fundamental reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and for the adjustment of the production structure so that a competitive and sustainable european wine sector can emerge. actions to stimulate market equilibrium should be taken as soon as possible, as imbalances in the market will mean the mobilisation of increasing amounts of union budgetary resources. i would like to draw attention to the need to support rural development in regions where wine production, although small in scale compared to the community, is of vital importance for local tourism and the diversification of agricultural activities in rural areas. these regions will be equally affected by the reform. the wine market reform should therefore adopt solutions which do not unduly restrict the development of local wine-growing cultures. the local innovative viticulture in rural areas in the new member states has no direct links with the pan-european wine market and does not require any strict market-based regulation. these regions have never generated an irredeemably expensive surplus of wine. measures to reduce future overproduction of wine should therefore not cover regions and countries with low levels of wine production.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. today's debate on voluntary modulation, or the limitation of direct payments, is an important place and a moment for many members of the committee on agriculture to say no to the european commission's plans. we say no to the attempt to discriminate against farmers and to their implementation at the expense of the tasks of the rural development programme, for which there should be sufficient funds in the budget of the european union. the debate rightly raises the possibility of discrimination against farmers, of renationalising the common agricultural policy and of distorting competition, which is incompatible with the treaties. it is worth recalling here that in many of the new member states, discrimination against farmers and distortions of free competition in agriculture already existed at the time of accession. the new countries received lower subsidies for many years. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cap and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cap. the exclusion from modulation of beneficiaries who receive subsidies below eur 5 000 is a misunderstanding. these are the subsidies that small farms receive. if, however, some form of payment restriction were to be introduced, this ceiling should be set at eur 50 000. large farms will be able to cope more quickly with the loss of part of their subsidies.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen of the house! the european commission's proposal for voluntary modulation, rightly rejected by the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on budgets, is the result of the european union's budget being too low, at just 1% of gdp. when the financial perspective for 2007-13 was drawn up, both the council and the commission were well aware that a reduction in rural development from eur 88 billion to eur 69 billion would result in a serious shortfall. the current attempts to adjust expenditure on the cap and its individual segments only lead to confusion and deepen regional disparities. trying to correct this error by reducing direct payments and impoverishing farmers is the worst possible solution. the proposed nationalisation of the common agricultural policy through an additional voluntary 20% modulation is therefore further evidence of the inconsistency in the formulation of the common agricultural policy and an attempt to renationalise it. ladies and gentlemen of the house! we have therefore no choice but to reject the commission's proposal.
madam president! the late hour and technical difficulties do not deter us from criticising very strongly, for the second time, the commission's proposal, which could result in european farmers losing up to 30% of their direct payment money. for many farms, this is a significant amount of money. the commissioner mentioned certain exceptions, but such major changes require much earlier notification in order to be able to plan for the future. otherwise we will lose farmers' confidence in the european union and the common agricultural policy. and it's among farmers in poland that trust is lowest. it is only a small consolation that this change would not affect farms receiving up to eur 5 000. if so, this amount should be, for example, eur 20 000.
madam president! i am aware of the total criticism of the proposal for a regulation under discussion, but it is impossible for this proposal not to have one positive aspect. it's never been like this, where everything is completely black, where you can't find anything that positively indicates a desire to introduce modulation. so, looking for something positive, without going into details like whether 20% is the right amount or 5,000 euros is the right amount, i found a few of these positive traits. firstly, the introduction of modulation will allow member states to make their policies towards agriculture and rural areas more flexible and this is very important. secondly, it will deprive critics of the union of arguments. we have heard recently that the union wants to regulate everything, for example the shape of bananas, the size of peas, etc. we'd leave at least 20% here to show that we don't want to regulate everything so strictly. thirdly, the introduction of modulation will allow for joint actions to be taken for the reconstruction and modernisation of the countryside. but for these actions to be supported by farmers, it is necessary, first of all, to allow rural self-governments to decide on... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's 12 months of work have confirmed all the fears of its opponents: the commission has not produced any new evidence of member states' involvement in illegal activities - it has only served as an archivist of media activities and the activities of the prosecutor's offices in the member states, which have themselves, without any assistance from the commission, taken appropriate action in a few isolated cases. the lack of new facts has pushed the european left to find the culprits by force. the old rule is, if the facts don't match the assumptions, the worse for the facts. that's where the absurd accusations against solana and de vries come from. hence the absurd accusations against more than half of the member states of a lack of control of airspace leading to the alleged transfer of persons for torture. hence the absurd language of some paragraphs and amendments. if all we have to say, for example, about poland is that we have no evidence either for or against the existence of a place of seclusion in that country, then it's better to remain silent.
mr president, mr commissioner, mr minister, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. we have a sense of the importance of this debate today. the commission's final report addresses a fundamental issue for the citizens of the european union. i say this as a former political prisoner. i would like to say to the opponents of this report, to those who have attacked and mocked our work to find the truth for over a year: all of us who defend this report may share party affiliations and ideological differences on many issues, but we are united in our belief that intelligence officers must act within the law, that no one should be tortured or deprived of dignity. that's the main political divide in this chamber right now. are you for habeas corpus or for the arbitrariness of the security services? are you for secret detention centers or for the rule of law, for or against torture? many governments and european institutions have not done their best to clarify the issues raised by the commission. i particularly regret the lack of serious cooperation from the polish government, despite the fact that cia operated planes made eleven stopovers at polish airports as part of the emergency detention. government officials in warsaw say there were no secret cia detention centers in poland. however, in the light of the material gathered and in the absence of an independent investigation in this case in poland, the commission, in my opinion, is not in a position to definitively rule out the existence of such centres on the territory of the polish state.
mr. chairman, please! mr fava's report can be described diplomatically as a curiosity or simply as a scandal. after one year of the provisional committee's work, the report does not contain any information that was not previously known to the public. in short, the ad hoc committee has found nothing new. instead of facts, we were given a vocabulary of praise, thanks, concern, and condemnation. the words 'sorry' or 'expresses regret' alone are used at least 52 times in the 36-page report by the rapporteur. the governments mentioned by name in this negative context are, among others, the british, irish, austrian, italian, greek, danish, romanian, and polish. the report is unreliable and biased. it was a selection of opinions that fit a preconceived anti-american thesis. i propose, first, that this report be rejected in its entirety. secondly, to define strictly the formal and substantive requirements for the preparation of reports, in order to avoid future discussions on documents as compromising as mr fava's report.
mr. chairman, please! the european witch hunt is over. the good name of countries such as great britain, italy, poland, and the united states is burning. the report on the alleged secret cia prisons is biased and unreliable. it's based on half-truths, assumptions, and suppositions. he's making some pretty sweeping claims, most of which are unsupported by the evidence. and yet, the report does condemn and infamously condemn a number of countries for only having taken the real fight against terrorism in cooperation with the united states. the committee's work has proven nothing. it was only to stigmatize those who put the safety of our families and our nation above the imagined harm of terrorists. let's remember that terrorists don't recognize any laws, treaties or conventions. paradoxically, today this report gives a green light to terrorism, showing that europe, in the name of a new religion of human rights, is prepared to protect suspected terrorists more than its own citizens. and all for one reason: the sick anti-americanism in this house. a report of this nature compromises us in the eyes of europeans who demand our security, not our indulgence of suspected terrorists. we have become hostages to european prejudice and lack of imagination. this report must be rejected. only transatlantic cooperation can effectively counter the global threat of terrorism. united in the stand, as the americans used to say after 9/11.
mr. chairman, please! the fava report is not likely to be adopted unanimously. this means that it is more speculative, political, and opinionated than it is based on facts and logical conclusions. if it were all facts, we would all support it, because facts are facts. there is evidence that in the course of the commission's work, political intentions have prevailed over truth, facts and common sense. there's a sentence in the report that says that poland and the united states signed a secret agreement that excluded foreign agents operating in the republic from the jurisdiction of polish courts. they referred to a letter from the government to our committee. the problem is, the letter says the exact opposite. the question therefore arises: what was the intention of those who proposed and supported such statements in this report? the work of our committee also leads to very important and necessary conclusions. i think we can all agree that security is a fundamental human need. this requires efficient, well-organised special services - services which, in protecting the health and life of their citizens, including against terrorism, not only can but must cooperate effectively with the services of other countries. but can the special services of a member state of the union operate outside any parliamentary or judicial control? the answer to that question is only one: it can't be. of course, the extent and intensity of this control can be debated, but without any control, the services tend to atomize and operate on the principle that the end justifies the means. this is especially important in countries where the government monopolizes power and tends to use the services for its own self-serving purposes.
in writing. i voted against the adoption of the abovementioned final report because the wording of the report in relation to poland did not reflect the findings of the ad hoc committee to investigate the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners. because the commission found no evidence, other than press reports, that the cia had secret prisons in my country. assumptions, unsupported by any evidence, cannot form the basis of a final report on such a serious matter.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report on the granting of eu financial assistance to moldova to support its balance of payments and foreign exchange reserves, because i am convinced that these measures will help this one of the poorest countries in europe to overcome its current financial difficulties. the additional exceptional support should facilitate and, in a sense, support the implementation of the economic reforms defined by the moldovan government. in the light of the positive economic and social developments in moldova, including the recent abolition of the death penalty, i believe that bilateral relations with moldova should be strengthened and its integration with the european union deepened. the aid in the form of a grant of eur 45 million will be a positive signal from the european union, especially in the light of moscow's ban on the import of moldovan wines and the increase in energy prices.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the resolution on climate change because i believe that there is an urgent need to define eu strategies to deal with a problem of such importance to mankind. the european parliament's voice on this issue seems to be sorely needed. the eu member states and the european commission are faced with a major challenge: how to promote economic development while respecting the environment? experts call for reducing co2 emissions, promoting research and innovation in renewable and energy-efficient technologies. cooperation with non-eu countries is also important, and above all raising awareness among people about the risks posed by climate change. we all have a responsibility to protect the earth. however, we must realise that reducing emissions and pollution will have additional costs for european businesses and citizens in the short term. given that countries such as china, brazil and india emit more carbon dioxide and other toxic substances every year, the union should help them to switch to cleaner and more energy-efficient production. trade in so-called green technology and the development of renewable energy sources should be promoted. let's do this for ourselves and for future generations.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a readmission agreement between the european community and the russian federation, which i was the author of, the committee referred favourably to the conclusion of a readmission agreement between the european community and the russian federation in parallel with the visa facilitation agreement. this is a step forward in the creation of a common area of freedom, security and justice within the framework of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia. at the same time, the committee believes that the russian federation's capacity to manage migration should be improved so that its authorities can meet the obligations of the readmission agreement when it enters into force. the lack of legal provisions to implement the agreement is of particular concern. the european commission should seek to provide the russian authorities with the necessary expertise to enable russia to comply with its obligations in accordance with accepted international standards. this is the most important thing right now.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the agreements currently under discussion are undoubtedly an important step towards closer relations between the european union and russia, and their adoption will mean significant facilitation for people crossing the borders. that's the theory. practice, unfortunately, is a little bit different from the ideal state in a few ways. travel to certain regions of the russian federation, especially chechnya, will still require additional permits, and the reasons for such decisions by the russian authorities do not seem to need to be explained. the facilitation agreement does not contain a reciprocal human rights and democracy clause, which should be a rule in union agreements with third countries. the absence of a joint readmission committee to monitor human rights and the inclusion of asylum seekers in the agreement is also incomprehensible. it seems that in the preparation of these documents practical and technical issues have pushed the issues of respect for the dignity of the human person to the background, and these should be the central point of all agreements, especially those concluded with russia.
mr. chairman, please! reciprocity and solidarity are two values and at the same time the preconditions that should define relations between the european union and russia. reciprocity is the foundation of international relations. i cannot imagine an agreement between countries whose rights and obligations are not equally distributed. any disproportion would be immediately protested. i have no doubt that the principle of reciprocity must be respected in the agreements between the community and the russian federation. the second value, solidarity, i see in two aspects. the first is the solidarity of the member states of the union, which have agreed to prepare both agreements. i am glad that my country, poland, which has been neighbouring russia for centuries, has participated in this process, noting in bilateral contacts - as is often the case between neighbours - the ups and downs. these deals show that we want a good, normal neighborhood. the second aspect is the solidarity of the citizens of the union with the citizens of the russian federation. we show it by treating russian citizens as bona fide travellers in the union, facilitating their entry and stay. i would like to stress that we, the citizens of the new member states, know how much freedom of movement is a blessing. we know what it means to cross borders without formalities, and we appreciate that. these are the values we want to share - on the basis of reciprocity and respect for human rights - with the citizens of russia. i therefore believe that parliament should support these agreements, because they constitute a policy of good neighbourliness in the union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. the union for a europe of nations shall support these reports. i have little time, so i will just touch on a few points. the economies of the european union countries need genuine internal solidarity and cohesion to meet the demands of competition in the long term. we can enjoy a real recovery, as evidenced by gdp growth. but we must remember that we are not alone. our 500 million people are less than 8% of the world's population. and not only the united states, but also - perhaps most of all - india, china, indonesia, brazil, and russia are among the competitors. today, the real power lies in the economy, access to strategic resources and demographic potential. these three pillars are closely linked. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lisbon strategy is not an end in itself, but its aim is to promote people, their development and the development of the european citizen.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, the commission shares the main concerns that you have expressed in this debate tonight. we find the initiative of this debate particularly useful, given the situation and in particular given the latest developments in the region. in our view, even with this extremely difficult situation, a negotiated way out of the crisis in darfur is the most desirable alternative and the option most likely to be successful. that being said, the council already stated last monday that it is ready to consider further measures, notably in the un framework. a lasting peace is darfur can only be political and will require all parties to support the darfur peace agreement and renounce the military option. the commission remains strongly committed to alleviating the plight of the three million civilian people affected by this terrible crisis. as you all know, the commission, and in particular my colleague louis michel – who cannot be here today because he is in washington, discussing, among other things, this particular issue — is following the situation very closely and the commission will not hesitate to call on all parties to respect human rights and international law as well as to remove all obstacles to the delivery of humanitarian aid.
in writing. we are proud that the very fact of being european gives rise to disagreement about the obvious evils that affect people in every corner of our globe. what's happening in darfur is clearly evil. and we, as a matter of course, express our opposition to those who do this evil. but can we express our moral imperative and rest in the sense of duty well done? well, no, it wasn't. as long as people are suffering, we can't be calm. we'll be calm when we stop this evil. so the source of peace is not being right but being effective. only when our words and actions stop those who kill, those who supply the weapons and the ideology, those who allow the atrocities, those who inspire them and those who commit them - only then will we be able to rest in peace. only when our vision of a moral order becomes a reality can we walk with our heads held high. just as there is no sin in someone who has not committed it just because he has not been tempted, so there is no merit in someone who, having the physical ability to stop evil, is content to call it evil. we are not lacking in knowledge about darfur, we are not lacking in experience, we are not lacking in ethical and political judgment. we're not very efficient. that's why we should focus on this.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr gahler and his colleagues for this report. the commission is convinced that, in order to strengthen the capacity of governments to plan and implement macroeconomic, sectoral and public finance reforms, and to stimulate growth and alleviate poverty, budget support can be more effective than other types of support, provided that certain eligibility conditions are met, and i want to stress this caveat, provided that certain eligibility conditions are met. budget support provides financing in relation to capital costs and current expenditure necessary to achieve the millennium development goals, such as the construction of schools, hospitals or roads, the payment of teachers, nurses, the maintenance of infrastructure, etc. on the other hand, by providing support to the budget of a country rather than to a specific project, not only are transaction costs reduced, but the accountability of local authorities in relation to the use of funds is also strengthened, provided that there is a mechanism for monitoring the use of these funds in the recipient countries themselves, and that is one of the elements of the conditionality or eligibility conditions to which i referred earlier. experience over the past few years shows that budget support can - and indeed often does - meet these expectations. this is corroborated by the clearly positive assessment last year by the oecd development assistance committee of general budget support in seven countries analysed by that committee. we therefore welcome the comments in mr gahler's report on budget support as an essential instrument of development cooperation in the european union. this was also reflected in the european consensus on development adopted last year. this consensus, this joint declaration by parliament, the council and the commission, commits us to increasing budget support where conditions allow. we are working intensively with member states and other bodies to ensure that this commitment is fulfilled, in full respect of the legal framework already in place. it is necessary, however, to answer a question mentioned in mr gahler's report, but which, in our opinion, does not entirely correspond to reality. because, according to our analysis, budget support is not synonymous with recklessness or mismanagement, but rather the opposite. the commission applies strict eligibility criteria when selecting which countries should receive budget support. such criteria are reassessed before each disbursement under the general support programme. the aim is to minimise the risk of budget support being wasted or to try to prevent it being used in an inappropriate way. improving public financial management is also a key objective of our budget support. our approach is to assess the direction and credibility of the public financial management reforms that our assistance can support, rather than to demand that specific minimum standards be met. this approach is shared by other budget support bodies and was not challenged in the court of auditors' 2005 special report, whose main recommendations the commission has taken into account in developing a revised set of guidelines for budget support. we fully agree with the call in the report to consolidate the institutions which play a key role in the control of the executive, but we believe that these institutions should be national, responding to the local political framework, and not foreign bodies which are accountable to donors. in general, the commission considers that good governance, which is crucial for development, cannot be imposed from outside. the establishment of innovative partnerships, conceived in accordance with the governance initiative and the commission's communication on this subject, is a promising way of promoting good governance. finally, while the positive conclusions of the recent independent evaluations of budget support are encouraging, we agree on the need to continuously assess the effectiveness of budget support and to ensure that the results are clearly disseminated, in order to build public support for development cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i'm not going to let you do this. i congratulate our colleague on a very informative and informative report. i will say this: even the poorest citizens of the union want to help the poorest, but only if the money reaches those who really need it. let's help so that we don't give an excuse for evaluations and rumors, such as that after the tsunami, instead of rebuilding the destroyed houses, clever entrepreneurs in the name of safety move the population from the coastal zone and build commercial hotels for tourists with our money. i hope there are no more cases like this. support what? i would like to emphasize two goals: education, including the building of civil society. it's a continuous, long-term investment, and it doesn't give you immediate results, but it's necessary. without it, there is no innovation, no development. secondly, the economic initiative of the inhabitants, that is to say, small and mediumsized enterprises. through technical, commercial, legal and organizational support. potential beneficiaries should be informed by the local authorities of how much and to what extent union aid has been transferred. it can't just be a secret of governments or banks. this assistance requires good monitoring on our part. we are jointly responsible, and the commission in particular, for the good use and waste of money, or for its appropriation by the hochstapler, the dictator, the wealthy multinational corporations, the clever intermediaries and sometimes even some of the european union's agents and representatives. both money from wealthy donors and, even more so, the proverbial penny from a poor widow's taxpayer should be treated with special care and prudence on our part. mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we can't afford to misplace the relief funds.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in the debate on the report by mr gahler on budgetary aid to developing countries, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the granting of such aid is primarily a manifestation of the european union's application of the principle of solidarity in its relations with third countries. however, it seems that a much more effective form of support for these countries would be free access to the european union market for goods originating from these countries. unfortunately, the various restrictions on access to the european union market, as well as to other developed countries in the world, including the united states in particular, make the eu budgetary assistance a very important instrument of support for these countries. in this situation, when highly developed countries are fighting to prevent goods from developing countries from accessing their markets, it is very important that financial assistance to these countries be offered on the basis of clear and transparent principles. first, budget support should be directed to third countries only when it is certain to achieve positive results. secondly, this aid should be primarily aimed at reducing poverty, which is the shame of the 21st century. thirdly, european aid should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny, both on the part of the donor and the recipient. fourth, budget support from the european union should focus on supporting the recipient country's macroeconomic reforms. fifth, it should be noted that a significant area of support in the beneficiary countries is primary and secondary education and primary health care, as the two most important areas of long-term support. sixth, attention should be drawn to the fact that significant financial assistance can be an inspiration for corruption. in such a situation, clarity and transparency in the decision-making processes on budgetary aid are of paramount importance. finally, i would like to express the hope that the enormous financial resources allocated by the european union to third countries will not only be an instrument to support the development of those countries, but will also make the european union appear as a significant actor in international relations in a globalised world.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we are discussing a draft resolution of the european parliament on budgetary aid for developing countries, poor countries, backward countries, where in many cases armed conflicts and sometimes even war are taking place, countries that are corrupt to the limit, where talk of the rule of law, parliamentary democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights or political pluralism borders on a grim joke. the only good that everyone has in abundance is poverty. we want to help them. rich europe was never wasteful, it always looked at every penny before it spent it. and that attitude toward money is reflected in the proposed resolution. to follow the twenty precepts and twenty-nine recommendations mentioned above, it is impossible to spend a single cent. we expect countries that are counting on us to meet a number of conditions. we all know them, but let me just remind you of some of them. first, a well-functioning democracy is a prerequisite for budget support. second, effective budget support requires recipients and state structures that are effective both in terms of a well-functioning democracy, respect for fundamental freedoms, human rights and political pluralism, and in terms of budgetary processes, competent spending and the provision of services subject to control. in addition, aid may only be granted where the net benefit of the mechanism can be demonstrated on the basis of clearly defined criteria and only after a comprehensive risk assessment has been carried out. in establishing such rules, let us recall that a few months ago the president of palestine spoke in our parliament about his concern about the decision to grant budgetary aid to malawi and kenya, for which all member states have suspended budgetary aid, thus casting doubt on the european commission's ability to apply this instrument effectively. let's remember that there's a budget of 6 euros per child per year in a school in nairobi, that they get one pencil per year, that there's one book per three children, and there are 100 to 120 children in a classroom, that there's no water, no electricity, no food for most people, and this is one of the most stable countries in africa. the world bank continues to support it, and the european investment bank has recently joined in. strangely, therefore, the recommendation is that the european parliament is concerned about the difficulties in assessing the extent to which performance indicators have been achieved, and in particular the difficulties in assessing the impact of poverty, and calls on the commission to support capacity building in the areas of statistics, data collection, quality assessment and analysis. i believe very strongly that the principles that have been set forth here are suitable for germany, france and england, but certainly not for the countries we are talking about. so i don't understand what this resolution is for and what it is supposed to improve.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr michael gahler on his report on budgetary aid to developing countries. in recent years, budgetary assistance has become the leading form of eu development aid. for the european commission, it is the main instrument of community development policy. indeed, in favourable circumstances, budgetary assistance can be a powerful tool to help achieve the european union's objectives of development aid, sustainable economic and social development, the smooth and gradual integration of developing countries into the world economy, the fight against poverty, economic and employment growth, and the development and consolidation of democracy. in the european parliament's report, we stress that budget support as an instrument of assistance can only be effective if both partners take full responsibility in a true spirit of partnership. parliament called for budget support to be concentrated as much as possible on development priorities relating to poverty reduction, for these to be given a central role in the policy dialogue between donor and recipient, and for parliamentary scrutiny to be guaranteed on both donor and recipient sides. the rule of law, democracy and decentralisation are, in our view, the best guarantees for the proper use of development funds.
mr. chairman, please! the activities of the european investment bank for 2005 were positively assessed by the rapporteur and i would like to share that assessment. the institution has been working for some time to implement projects in line with the lisbon strategy and i believe that the positive effects of these projects will be felt in the near future. nevertheless, i would like to make a few comments on the eib's activities. first, i would like to point out that the eib's primary objective is to promote the economic and social cohesion of the countries of the european union. a significant part of the bank's funds should therefore be concentrated in the poorest regions of the european union. however, as the author of the report rightly noted, over the last four years, including 2005, we have seen a reversal of proportions. the regions receiving the most support were those covered by objective 2, rather than the less economically developed objective 1 regions. secondly, there is a clear tendency for the eib to support the southern regions of the european union at the expense of its eastern regions. the same applies to non-eu countries. while the bank has many projects in the so-called mediterranean neighbourhood, i could not find a single project in the eastern neighbourhood on the eib's website. the last point concerns the evaluation of the effectiveness of the projects carried out by the bank. it is clear to me that the eib should evaluate its performance ex post by measuring it against economic growth and employment growth. in particular, i agree with the rapporteur that the provision and analysis of information on failed projects can provide guidance to the bank in its decision to pursue projects in the future.
madam president! in debating energy prices and energy security today, it is necessary to mention that the high fuel prices are not only due to the increased demand for oil in the world, but also to the situation in the middle east and the war in iraq, which my group, the league of polish families, has opposed from the very beginning. today, many households and households across europe are feeling the negative effects of high energy prices, and the prospect of high prices for a long time is already causing major changes in the economy. the idea of increasing the minimum rates of excise duty on motor oil in the european union from 2012 should therefore be welcomed with concern. this type of solution and harmonisation of rules, which is typical of the eu bureaucracy, does not contribute to improving competitiveness and does not serve to compensate for differences between european countries. instead of working on price increases, the european commission should focus on promoting alternative energy sources, energy-efficient technologies, renewable sources, and improving energy security across europe.
madam president! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr klaus lehne, on his contribution to a subject of such importance for the future of european integration and the development of the single market. currently, citizens of different eu countries holding shares in listed companies and established in another member state face considerable difficulties in exercising their voting rights. as the process of european integration and the development of the internal market has strengthened, so has the number of crossborder capital investments. this is a very good sign that integrated financial markets are emerging in europe. we should be encouraging this process today, and therefore support the commission's proposal for a directive. this document contains a number of important proposals to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights. for example, it should be ensured that all general meetings are convened in good time and that information - both on the meeting and on the voting results at the meetings - is readily available to those concerned. it is also important to allow the proxy to vote and to facilitate the exercise of shareholder rights by intermediaries. such measures will, inter alia, allow certain forms of blockage of shares to be reduced.
mr. chairman, please! i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine because i believe that it contains many positive proposals. in the committee on agriculture, where we were preparing this report, there was a clear division between the two camps. on the one hand, the countries of northern and central europe, and on the other, the countries of the south. we certainly agree on one thing: we must take appropriate action to balance the market situation. in addition, i believe that the possibility of using beet sugar to enrich wines in wine-growing zone a should be maintained. otherwise, it would be discriminatory for countries located in those regions of the union where the cultivation of vines is more difficult due to less favourable climatic conditions. the prohibition of certain plantings which are intended to contribute to the reduction of production should not apply to those regions where there has never been a surplus. i also think that the appropriations for emergency distillation of surplus wine should be reduced. the subsidised wine alcohol resulting from such distillation distorts the ethyl alcohol market and imposes a burden on the union budget.
mr. chairman, please! the european economy is in a growth phase. this translates into a decrease in unemployment, an improvement in the public finances and a decrease in the average budget deficit. it should be emphasised that there has been an increase in labour productivity, which will contribute to improving our competitiveness. it is worth noting here that positive economic trends have followed the enlargement of the european union. in may 2004, 10 new countries with low economic development joined the community. a closer look shows that countries that have liberalised their labour markets and opened up to the influx of labour from new countries have achieved much higher economic growth. it is safe to say that the enlargement of the union has brought benefits to the old 15 as well as the new 10. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the new member states.
in writing. the report is very well done. we get a picture of the state of the european economy backed up by a lot of statistics. the report provides an overview of the trends in the eu-27, the trends in the new countries, and a commentary explaining the reasons. i stress the importance of domestic demand and exports to economic growth. the report contains important elements for diagnosing the impact of external factors such as the us economic situation, oil prices and the euro-dollar exchange rate. the report also has a strong consensus on its content within the committee, which is a major merit of the rapporteur.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the dialogue between the chinese government and the dalai lama's envoys.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on 26 october 2006, the european parliament adopted a resolution condemning the shelling of defenseless women and children at nangpa-la pass and calling for the punishment of those responsible. the incident has caused a great stir all over the world. what's the matter? not much, because the situation in this region hasn't changed at all. while there are no recent reports of any more brutal murders, that doesn't mean the situation has improved. i am aware that in this long-standing conflict, the three months that have passed since our last debate have changed little. but we must be consistent and continue to call for the rights of 6 million people, because that is the number of people that are affected by the problem of this region - a region that continues to be, in the 21st century, a place of permanent human rights violations. i believe that tackling this problem should be one of the priorities for the new president of the european parliament and therefore for us too, ladies and gentlemen.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the question of tibet's status comes up in the european parliament several times a year, but so far we have seen no concrete results from the resolutions we have adopted. unfortunately, the result of the consultations between the tibetans and the chinese government since 2002 is similar. the problem of tibet remains unsolved. meanwhile, the chinese occupation since 1951 has already claimed the lives of more than 1.2 million of tibet's six million people. every year, about 3,000 tibetans flee the country, mostly children and youth, who can only receive tibetan education outside their country. the tibetan people are discriminated against in all spheres of social life, from education, to social welfare, to employment, housing and religion. we must jointly press the chinese government to resume dialogue and to regulate tibet's status as soon as possible. the european commission should raise the issue of negotiations with the dalai lama in the negotiations on a new china-eu partnership and cooperation agreement. the council should define the role of the union in resolving the tibet problem and the outcome of the sino-tibetan negotiations should be reflected in the annual report from the council to parliament on the implementation of the european union's common foreign and security policy.
member of the commission. mr president, thank you for your very strong commitment to human rights. i trust the honourable members have noticed the same strong focus on fundamental human rights and universal values in the recent commission communication and in the council conclusions on china. this reflects the fact that it is and will remain an important priority for the european union with regard to our overall relations with that country. we share the concern expressed in the joint resolution regarding the human rights situation in tibet and, in particular, the preservation of the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the tibetan people. this issue has been regularly addressed by the european union in the framework of bilateral dialogue on human rights, as well as at the highest political level, such as our bilateral summits and senior officials’ meetings. former european parliament president, mr borrell, also raised the matter when he officially visited china last year. with regard to the recent shooting mentioned by mr czarnecki, i would like to inform you that this matter was formally taken up by the european union during the last session of the eu-china dialogue on human rights held in beijing in october 2006 and via the subsequent follow-up démarche in december 2006. on both occasions, the eu urged the chinese authorities to undertake a thorough investigation of this incident and refuted the chinese claim that the shooting had been done in self-defence. we will follow this serious matter closely. i agree with mr matsakis that bloodshed leads nowhere. the commission has regularly kept this chamber informed regarding its overall policy vis-à-vis tibet and will continue to do so. as commissioner fischer boel underlined in this chamber in october 2006, the eu has consistently taken the view that establishing a direct dialogue between the dalai lama and the chinese authorities is the only realistic way to find a peaceful and lasting solution to the question of tibet, which will hopefully lead to the recognition of a genuine autonomy of the tibetan region. we have therefore followed very closely and welcomed the five rounds of talks which have taken place up to now between the special envoys of the dalai lama and the chinese government. in this respect, eu officials have regular contacts with the two special envoys, the last being in november 2006. even in this chamber there are differing opinions on the question of the appointment of a special eu envoy. we have our doubts about the value of such an appointment, because such an envoy would probably be prevented from having a real impact on the ground or from playing a significant role in this dialogue. we need the two sides to continue and deepen the dialogue. we agree with the honourable members that this dialogue should be regular and substantive, and that the respective parties should refrain from taking any step that would compromise the establishment of a climate of confidence. we take note that the tibetan side is ready for a rapid resumption of the dialogue and hope that the chinese side is willing to do the same. the european union will spare no efforts in stressing the importance of this dialogue to both parties on all possible occasions. i also want to express my gratitude for your attention and focus on this matter and your support, especially now via this resolution, because such support is helpful in the process.
i close the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the humanitarian situation of refugees from iraq.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i don't want to talk about politics. my friend mr. kazaka just mentioned the political context of the invasion of iraq and its consequences. maybe that's true, too. i'd rather focus on what's perhaps more important, not to journalists, not to us politicians, but to those who are in iraq right now: refugees. well, i believe it's less important why things happen in our political lives, what happens -- it's what we can do. it is my deep belief that at this moment we are showing the world the face of helplessness. it is my deep conviction that the european union, and even more so the united states, are not in a position to really help these people. this is a real big drama. there are two faces of iraq: the victims of the attacks - hundreds, thousands of people, that's what the tv shows, that's the news that we have, but little is said about the other face of iraq, these tens of thousands of refugees. the european union cannot be helpless here, and i agree with my colleagues who spoke about the initiatives of the scandinavian countries and the role of egypt. it's all true. but we must say, very clearly and very strongly, that we are not only interested in the first person, the victims of the attacks that we see on television, but we are equally interested as people, as europeans, as european politicians, in the issue of refugees. this is perhaps one of the greatest embarrassments for those who started this war, for those who are waging it, even with the best of intentions. that is why we must react to it, as the european parliament is doing at the moment. thank you for the wise words that were shared by my speakers earlier today.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would also like to begin by congratulating the german presidency on the presence of its representative in the debate today. i would like to extend a warm welcome to the government's human rights ombudsman in berlin. according to the united nations, nearly two million people have left iraq in recent years because of the danger to their lives, the chaos and the difficult economic situation. we are witnessing a great drama of refugees from iraq in neighboring countries: a million people in syria, about 750,000 in jordan, over 100,000 in egypt, 40,000 in lebanon and many people in other countries. the palestinians in iraq are in a tragic position. in a statement on february 2, human rights watch demanded the immediate opening of the syrian border to palestinians who are in danger in iraq. the united nations is calling for $60 million to fund relief efforts for iraqi refugees. the world cannot remain indifferent to their plight. today's decision by the united states to grant asylum to 7,000 iraqis in the united states next year and the declaration by the united nations to provide $18 million for a program to help refugees from iraq are steps in the right direction. it's still a drop in the bucket. the european union should take a leading role in the forthcoming geneva conference on 17 april and contribute financial support to improve the situation of refugees and to resolve the crisis.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to express my gratitude to the authors of this resolution and to the groups and individuals who have presented their opinions. there was a strong focus on the eminent need for solidarity with the people in great need. the commission is also extremely concerned about the humanitarian situation in iraq and the scale of human suffering caused by the ongoing violence in that country, the high level of displacement inside and outside iraq and the impact this is having on the whole region. over the past few months the commission has kept monitoring the situation, keeping in close contact with other key international players, notably with the red cross and the united nations. as you have mentioned, we have the same figures from the united nations high commissioner for refugees: 1.8 million people are now internally displaced and 2 million iraqis have already fled to neighbouring countries. as mr smith said, that is nearly 4 million people. however, an exact assessment of the needs inside iraq has so far been made impossible by the difficulties of gaining access to the affected populations as a result of the security situation. the conference the united nations is holding in geneva in april, which has also been mentioned here, is expected to provide more clarity regarding the situation of internal and external displacements, the impact and the needs. the commission will take an active part in that conference. i am certain that mr cappato expressed an important invitation be united there with the council and the member states. in the meantime, based on the information received from partner international humanitarian agencies, the commission, through its directorate-general for humanitarian aid (echo), has decided to allocate eur 10.2 million for humanitarian aid to the victims of the iraqi crisis. as announced this morning by my colleague mr michel, an initial funding package of eur 6.2 million, focusing on the most vulnerable groups, will be proposed for meeting the humanitarian needs of refugees who have fled to countries such as syria, lebanon and jordan. the aid will consist of basic healthcare and education, as well as targeted distributions of food and essential household items. protection activities are also envisaged, in particular support for the united nations high commissioner for refugees’ refugee registration system, which is important in identifying the most vulnerable groups and assessing their specific needs. another initial funding package of eur 4 million is in the process of being drawn up for people suffering inside iraq, based on a careful assessment of priority needs and aid delivery arrangements in what is a highly volatile security environment, as you can imagine. humanitarian aid will be provided impartially and without discrimination, with a focus on those most at risk. the commission will consider further funding decisions when new needs emerge or when access to groups requiring help, and who are currently out of reach, becomes possible. the commission will also continue monitoring the situation closely and to raise specific matters through its regular discussions with third countries and the government of iraq, including the ministry of displacement and migration. if the situation deteriorates further in the coming months, the commission will examine the situation in the light of the criteria of the temporary protection directive, in order to decide whether to submit to the council a request to activate the temporary protection mechanism for the iraqi asylum seekers. this may offer them immediate protection while, at the same time, providing financial support for their actual reception as well as making arrangements for an eventual redistribution of asylum seekers amongst member states. the commission will also explore, in close cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees, the possibility for a coordinated effort by eu member states to resettle refugees from the region. such a resettlement effort could target particularly vulnerable categories of people, such as women-at-risk and unaccompanied minors. i want to thank the honourable members for their resolution and support.
i close the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on guinea.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. guinea, like other african countries, is rich in mineral resources, yet it is one of the poorest countries in the world, with many people living in extreme poverty. this is the reason for the strikes and demonstrations that took place in 2005 and earlier this year against the corrupt government of president lasaná conté, who has been in power for 23 years. the strikes are a protest against inflation, unemployment, energy and water shortages, and high prices for basic goods. but recently, they have also been responsible for curbing the export of aluminum ore, guinea's greatest natural resource, resulting in huge losses of up to one million dollars a day. however, the leaders of the january strike and the trade unions suspended the protest after signing an agreement demanding the change of the prime minister. contrary to the promises made in the agreement between the trade unions, the parliament and the supreme court, a member of the ruling party was re-elected as prime minister, which does not improve the situation that the protesters were demanding. as in my country, the current government is shooting at people who are fighting for reforms, better living conditions and respect for basic human rights. we demand respect for the principles of democracy and reform in a country whose people want to live with dignity on the basis of their natural resources, which are currently exploited by rich corporations and destroyed by corruption. the more than 100 people killed during the demonstrations and the thousands of guineans dying of poverty and hunger are victims of the nascent democracy and the struggle for human rights, but they are also a remorse for those who value aluminium ores, bauxites, gold, diamonds more than human life.
member of the commission. mr president, not only has the country had a very difficult history and legacy, but it faces a very difficult current situation. however, together we can help to bring more hope to guinea. the commission is fully aware of the situation in that country. in a press release of 22 january, the european commission condemned the violent interventions by the security forces and called for restraint and civic responsibility during these demonstrations. commissioner michel regretted the loss of human lives and encouraged the different stakeholders to pursue a constructive dialogue in order to implement the necessary political reforms important for that country. the german presidency, on behalf of the union, issued a declaration on 9 february regretting the loss of life during the demonstrations and asking the government of guinea for an explanation of the circumstances of those deaths and of the judicial steps being taken against those responsible. the inquiry commission appointed in guinea is led by public prosecutors, but victims and relatives are invited to submit their cases either to the courts, which have limited means, or to the police, an institution heavily involved in the repression. given this situation, the guinean bar has refused to participate in the inquiry commission and has called for an international commission instead. the bar also wishes to present a case to the international criminal court. the commission’s delegation in conakry and member states’ embassies have repeatedly stressed to the government of guinea the need to carry out a full inquiry into the events. this was also stressed by commissioner michel to foreign minister condé. the delegation and other diplomats have also stressed to the new prime minister that the behaviour of security forces observed during the previous strike should simply stop. the ninth european development fund cooperation strategy with guinea, signed on 21 december 2006, includes governance as a focal factor, as a priority. actions foreseen are aimed at promoting effectiveness and transparency in public management, reinforcing the rule of law and promoting a democratic society. a reinforced political dialogue with the country is ongoing as a follow-up to the article 96 (cotonou agreement) consultations, which ended in april 2005. the commission has stressed to the guinean authorities that the new situation would be taken into account in this context. i should like to thank you for the resolution, and express the firm belief that the european union should support the country in seeking a better future.
i close the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (for the vote on the minutes, see minutes)
- i consider the vote closed.
i call a recess to the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.)
mr. chairman, please! the last european council summit, which focused on climate change and the union's common energy policy, was a time of solidarity. this is to be seen as a very positive thing. the union finally realised that only joint action and solidarity with external partners could be effective on such important issues. but there is a concern that this verbal solidarity may be the fruit of bargains that political elites try to make behind the backs of their citizens. the result would be an agreement on a constitutional treaty. the heads of state or government, the german presidency and the european commission cannot ignore the sovereign will of the peoples who rejected the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands and the serious reservations expressed in other member states against this document.
mr. chairman, please! i am aware that the concept of corporate social responsibility is becoming an increasingly important part of the debate on globalisation, competitiveness and sustainable development. by definition, companies are voluntarily taking social and environmental issues into account in their activities. in the exercise of their social responsibility on a voluntary basis, companies choose to go beyond minimum legal requirements and collective agreements to take account of social and environmental needs. i would like to emphasize very clearly that it is the application of the principle of voluntariness in the approach to implementation, to the participation of enterprises in the concept of social responsibility, that is crucial. as csr is based primarily on the voluntary decision of companies, i believe that any additional administrative obligations and requirements would most likely have the opposite effect and would be contrary to the principles of better regulation and the better and simpler functioning of the european union. i have expressed this by submitting ten amendments to the text proposed by mr howit and i am glad that the spirit of these amendments is reflected in the compromise text proposed by the rapporteur. i would also like to emphasise the importance of using the method of exchanging good practice in implementing the concept of corporate social responsibility. in practice, this is possible within the framework of the european alliance for corporate social responsibility and i would like to acknowledge the commitment of the european commission, which, recognising that it is companies that are the main actors on this stage, declares its support for the functioning of this platform, which is a good, open form of exchange of good practices by large, medium and small companies alike.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission is grateful for the constructive and open spirit of this debate. i would like to emphasise once again that the report by mr howitt contains many valuable suggestions which the commission will be happy to take into account in the further development of its csr policy. we'll make a lot of progress together. companies need a clear legal framework. they need to know what they have to do and what they don't have to do. a company cannot function in the market without it. companies have a social responsibility. this is why there are thousands of rules at european level and in the member states which force companies to take on this social responsibility. all the laws we have made - consumer protection, labour protection, environmental protection, social benefits - are laws that force corporations to be socially responsible and set the standards we believe are essential to be met. the intellectual problem with our debate is that, to me, at least, it's hard to imagine how we're going to create a legal framework for something that's not legally mandated. the idea of creating a regulatory framework for csr means that you make a law that regulates how companies have to deal with things that are not required by law. this is a contradiction in terms, and the commission really wanted to put an end to this debate. we wanted to see some real progress. that is why last year we encouraged european companies to set up this alliance for csr. i have already told you, and you can read in the commission's report which you have before you, what remarkable ideas and initiatives have already been developed here. mr turmes has pointed out two very important things which i should like to address. first, the multi-stakeholder forum. it was a very committed undertaking on the part of the commission. it has made important proposals which the commission is taking up. there was very broad support for the commission's position. some ngos did not come because they disagreed with the commission. i find it unusual in a democratic society to participate in a debate unless you are sure that everyone else is of the same opinion. so i was sorry that these few ngos had not come. we also want to keep in touch with these organisations and i have specifically asked them to participate in this work again in the future. the commission fully supports the overall approach which mr turmes also mentioned. we will be holding a major conference later this year on the international aspects of csr. we have already taken up this subject in our dialogue with the other regions of the world, in particular with the developing economic regions of china, india, latin america and africa. we are also in dialogue with the united states, japan and other european partners. this is an issue we want to push forward on a global level. it has been mentioned in this debate that there is an iso standard for corporate social responsibility. indeed there is. but it's a voluntary standard. companies decide for themselves whether they want to use this standard or not. the good news is that more and more european companies are doing this and using it for their marketing as well. they tell their customers, the society, that we, company x, operate by that standard, and they want to be rated by that standard, because they believe that it's useful for their success in the marketplace. i would like to offer, also on behalf of my colleague mr špidla, to the parliament to continue to work closely and constructively together on this issue and to state once again that the report by mr howitt and the debate have made a number of important suggestions which the commission will take into account in its further work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the report by amalia sartori, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the action plan for equality between women and men 2006-2010 (2006/2132 (ini)) (a6-0033/2007).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. there are tons of papers on human rights and dignity and many opinions and reports on equality and the empowerment of women and men. but this will not improve unless we take care to educate each individual in the spirit of moral principles. without moral standards and a healthy value system, there can be no moral order, either individual or social. the legitimate struggle of women for equality and empowerment should not lead to the 'masculinization' of women, who, by taking on the appearance of men, lose their value, dignity and their inherent beauty, which is still carried out under the hypocritical and humiliating slogans of sexual and reproductive health, self-realization and equal rights. the growing tendency to depreciate the institutions of the family, marriage, procreation, contraceptive and abortion mentality, unrestrained self-interest, extreme individualism, conflict between parents and children and the extension of the retirement age of women, contribute to their objectification and overburdening, leading also to the destruction of their psychophysical health and the extension of a social pathology, of which women are often the victims. with reference to the recent women's day, i would like to pay tribute to the holy father john paul ii, who died two years ago, and to express my gratitude for his encyclical 'mulieris dignitatem' on the dignity and vocation of women, in which he speaks so beautifully of the mystery and the feminine genius.
madam president! a gender equality policy should be regarded as a fundamental requirement for respect for the rights of the individual. the new action plan for equality between women and men, developed by the commission, does not contain any new legislative proposal or financial resources to implement its crucial recommendations, such as the rapid introduction of national regulations to facilitate women's entry into the labour market on equal terms and under the same pay for equal work principle, and the implementation of specific strategies to strengthen women's entrepreneurship. in this respect, the european commission should review as a matter of priority the council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women, and in particular the provisions on labour inspection and remedies available in the event of discrimination against women. in order to ensure the successful implementation of gender equality policy, member states should designate a competent authority for gender equality at national level, which would be responsible for assisting in the development and revision of the national plans and for monitoring their implementation. priority should also be given to a policy of reconciling family and professional life and to increasing the availability of care services for those who are not self-sufficient. in addition, the commission should be involved in conducting research on violence against women and present a draft directive to that effect. respect for women's rights must also be a fundamental condition for the european union's neighbourhood, foreign and development policies with third countries. given the role of the media in raising awareness, the dissemination of positive examples of women's achievements in various fields, for example through the media 2007 programme, can be an effective tool to combat the negative stereotypes that are still prevalent. i congratulate mrs. sartori on an excellent report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're debating a difficult subject today that has generated a lot of controversy. i have not had a formal involvement of parliament in solving the common problem of the crossborder management of copyright and related rights governing legal online music services, which i consider to be highly inappropriate, especially since this subject has already been raised in the resolution of 15 january 2004. i also did not have any consultation on future regulatory work in this area. it is difficult to regulate the legal situation of a given environment without first hearing the views of the parties themselves. the commission's recommendation only regulates the online sale of music recordings, but as the wording is extremely vague, it could also apply to other online services, such as broadcasting services. the lack of precision referred to here could create confusion as regards the application of different review systems, which could in turn lead to legal uncertainty and have negative consequences, in particular for online broadcasting services. there is also a risk that, by following the above-mentioned recommendation on online interactive rights, rightholders would deprive local collective management organisations of other rights, such as broadcasting rights, thus depriving users of the possibility to purchase rights from the same collective management organisation to use a wide and diverse repertoire. rightholders should be able to enjoy the protection of copyright and related rights where such rights are established for the duration of their validity, irrespective of national borders and the way in which they are used. a multi-territorial licensing system should therefore be established to provide greater legal protection for commercial users in relation to their activities and to support the development of legal online services, while increasing revenue streams for copyright holders. the freedom to provide collective management services across national borders means that copyright holders are free to choose the collective management organisation necessary for the provision of legal online music services throughout the community. this includes the possibility to outsource the collective management of rights or to transfer all or part of the rights online, regardless of the eu country. i believe that increased but controlled competition in the area of collective management of copyright and related rights in the online music sector can be beneficial for all and, as the culture committee has argued, can support cultural diversity, provided that fair rules and transparency are ensured.
, in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks and congratulations to mrs katalin levai, rapporteur for the european parliament's resolution before us. advances in technology and the development of civilization have led to a new generation of cross-border commercial copyright users. they are the providers of online music services. this shows how the market for copyright and related rights is evolving and developing, which only confirms the validity of the initiatives taken in this area. the proper development of the european music market requires an analysis of the impact of multi-territorial and multi-repertoire licences on online music services and the socio-economic effects on rightholders. it is also important to ensure that the european market for online music services can develop freely without compromising europe's cultural diversity. the resolution before us today should be supported. it is necessary for the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of this problem and the results of this analysis should be submitted to the european parliament. furthermore, i would point out that in the current debate we should also consider the possibility of meeting future needs arising from the specific nature of cross-border collective management of copyright and related rights.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. having one minute to discuss crossborder health services, i can only say that, in addition to the real benefits for a certain group of patients who have the possibility of choosing their own treatment in different countries of the union, there are unfortunately very negative consequences for some health care systems, but also for many patients from poor countries in the community who are deprived of access to health care because of the emigration of doctors or for economic reasons. the priority of the old and rich eu countries is to increase the development, competitiveness and security of their own health systems, which are referred to as 'european', without paying attention to the costs borne by other, much poorer countries. it is clear that the rich in particular are getting richer and safer, while the poor are getting poorer, and this is also reflected in sustainable development, equal opportunities and equal treatment, or the principle of subsidiarity, which for european citizens is a perverse one: the weak enrich the strong and the poor the rich.
mr. chairman, please! paper is patient, you can write anything on it, worse with the implementation. this is the best way of summarising the commission's successive communications. declarations are noble, but sometimes they create a virtual reality. the very introduction of the union strategy paper for 2008 mentions, for example, the initiative to establish a european institute of technology. meanwhile, a couple of pages later, it says that the institute will be established, but no earlier than 2009. i have carefully read the dozens of priorities for the commission's work in the coming year. let's not kid ourselves, if everything is a priority, then nothing is a priority. foreign policy talks about the progress of the western balkans on the road to future membership of the union. in practice, however, the acceptance of the countries of the region is made conditional on the institutional reform of the union, i.e. these countries become part of the intra-eu game. this is yet another example of the gap between declarations and reality. i agree with my predecessor that the issues of the countries of the caucasus, their progress towards possible future membership of the european union, should be more strongly emphasised in this document.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. thank you for presenting your strategy for 2008. as regards the priorities set out by the commissioner, i would like to stress our commitment to environmental protection, in particular the prevention of climate change, the need for a common energy policy, the implementation of the social agenda and the enlargement issue. we have many challenges ahead of us. it should be used to create greater cohesion between member states and to increase citizens' trust in the union. in the last year, in the context of our relations with russia, the european union has shown that it can be solidary with its countries and this policy should be maintained. promoting high environmental standards will give us recognition and strengthen our place in the world. in the light of recent enlargements and the results of referendums in france and the netherlands, it is clear that more effort should be focused on integrating the union than on further enlargement. only the accession of croatia seems to be the priority at the moment. let's do something concrete for our citizens, so many of whom are left without jobs and without proper development prospects.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, i welcome the willingness of the european commission and the european parliament to cooperate, which you have emphasised so strongly here. it is clear that the programme and the work of the commission cannot be separated from the needs and expectations of the citizens of the european union. i would therefore like to refer to one of the commission's priorities, namely the solidarity which you emphasized in your speech, and i do not want to talk about economic solidarity, i want to talk about social solidarity. i like the commission's announcements, which show it in action, such as its policy on equal opportunities, the prevention of discrimination outside the labour market, the fight against all forms of discrimination, the reconciliation of work and family life and the elimination of youth unemployment. but that's all, that's the plan for this year, for 2007, which is the year of equal opportunity. i understand that we have to continue this. i am particularly interested in the commission's announcements and actions to promote and protect fundamental rights, with particular emphasis on the rights of the child. including the existence of a forum for children's rights. i like that the commission wants to protect children using the internet and new media, but above all the fact that the commission wants to fight child poverty. it is our duty to ensure that every child has a decent standard of living. and in this context i would like to ask the commissioner what is to be done with the commission's draft legislation which is already before parliament. i am referring in particular to the maintenance order, for which i am the rapporteur. it is intended to enable maintenance to be recovered quickly and directly when maintenance debtors are working in other eu countries and are not paying maintenance. and so their children don't get the standard of living, so their children live in poverty. that is why i ask whether the commission wants to see progress on this matter, because thousands of european children are waiting for these regulations. let's help them.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in nine days' time, the commissioner is to officially present the draft european-american open skies agreement to the transport ministers of the eu countries. these negotiations have been successful, but in fact they are still ongoing, not everything is negotiated yet. this agreement will create a transatlantic open air area, and that means that there will no longer be any tedious bilateral negotiations between the united states and individual countries of the union. in practice, for consumers, for passengers, this obvious increase in competitiveness will result in more connections and lower fares. the united states is not singled out by the union, as there are 16 previous similar agreements between the european union and countries in europe, asia, africa, australia (for example, croatia, ukraine, morocco, lebanon, singapore and australia), and most recently the european commission concluded such an agreement with chile. of course, my predecessor is right, the fact is that this agreement is in some ways unique because of the scale of the flights and their weight. the next step to be taken, since not everything has been done to break the perfectionist barrier and liberalize services, is the possible agreement of the us side to facilitate the investment of european companies in the us carrier market. it is rare, and i congratulate the commissioner on this, for an agreement concluded by the european commission to be so uncontroversial and so clearly beneficial to european consumers. open skies are the possibility of better, more frequent and cheaper communication between europeans and americans. it's a cheaper and more convenient airlift than ever before.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the eu and us aviation markets together account for around 60% of global air traffic, and the eu-us aviation agreement will benefit consumers on both sides of the atlantic. it will contribute to the deepening of transatlantic relations and could serve as a model for further liberalisation and approximation of laws worldwide. the court of justice's ruling finds that several bilateral air service agreements between member states and the united states are contrary to the principles of european union law and that an eu-us air service agreement is the best way to ensure full compliance with union law. in this type of air contract, the synchronisation of legal provisions is of particular importance, especially in the areas of safety, environmental protection and social rights of workers. the key issue is close cooperation between the competent authorities of the european union and the united states on aviation safety, both at the european union and us federal levels and at the member state level. the aim should be to create a single aviation security area, a concept that involves a one-off check on passengers and baggage at the start of a journey, rather than at every transit. i would also like to stress that the exchange of passenger data between the european union and the united states should respect the privacy of european and american citizens, as has already been pointed out in european parliament resolutions. the transatlantic air transport agreement must be based on the convention on human rights and other international instruments guaranteeing civil rights and freedoms. i would also like to congratulate saïd el khadraoui for his important contribution to the european parliament's position on this issue.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation repealing council regulation (ec) no 2040/2000 on budgetary discipline (com ((2006) 0488- c6- 0277/2006- 2006/0151 (cns)) mr. lewandowski has prepared a good report. council regulation (ec) no 2040/2000 of 26 september 2000 has become obsolete with the introduction of council regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 and the introduction of a new mechanism of reserves for credit guarantees for the years 2007 to 2013. the repeal of this regulation will improve the quality of community law. clearly, the removal of obsolete provisions increases the transparency of the law and makes it easier to apply.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by ms katalin lévai on the commission recommendation of 18 october 2005 on cross-border collective management of copyright and related rights in respect of legal online music services (recommendation 2005/737/ec) (2006/2008 (ini)). i would like to point out that a great deal of work has gone into the preparation of this report. the rapporteur has appropriately addressed the seriousness of the copyright problem, the danger of market monopolisation and the issue of consumer protection. in the spirit of the report, i hope that the european market for online music services will be able to develop freely without distorting cultural diversity. i would like to express my support for the call for the commission to carry out a thorough analysis of the impact of multi-territorial and multi-repertoire licences on online music services and to present the results to the european parliament.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by ms katalin lévai on the common crossborder management of copyright and related rights for legal online music services. the commission shall be assisted by the european parliament. mrs katalin lévai has given us a very good report. advances in technology and the development of civilization have led to a new generation of cross-border commercial copyright users. they are the providers of online music services. this shows how the market for copyright and related rights is evolving and developing, which only confirms the validity of the initiatives taken in this area. in the current debate, we must also consider the possibilities of meeting future needs arising from the specific nature of cross-border collective management of copyright and related rights. it is therefore necessary to analyse the impact of multi-territorial and multi-repertoire licences on online music services and the effects on cultural diversity and the socio-economic situation of rightholders.
mr. chairman, please! on behalf of myself (marcin libicki) and mp kamiński i wanted to say that we both voted "in favour" and the card didn't work either.
i just wanted to support my predecessors on the voting system and putting such important votes at the top of the list, which are electronically verified. i wanted to support my predecessors.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out, with regard to the report by amalia sartoria, that during the vote on the 20th paragraph, my machine failed and i was unable to vote against the proposed regulations. at the same time, i would like to take this opportunity to join the words of my predecessors and also to say that, although there was no formal vote, i voted in favour of two reports by mr parish, both in favour. the machine didn't work either, even though it was the beginning of the voting.
mr. chairman, please! the threat of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has been with us for years. in recent years, it has been increased by the danger that fissile materials, chemical weapons, biological weapons could fall into the hands of terrorists. the strategic documents of both our european union and other international organisations, and in particular the comprehensive political guidance adopted by the north atlantic alliance at the end of last year, are an expression of this fear. equally worrying are the nuclear aspirations of some states, notably north korea and iran, as discussed earlier. we note with satisfaction some progress in the multilateral negotiations with north korea and we note with regret the lack of progress in the negotiations with iran. to counter this great threat of proliferation, it seems that four conditions must be met. first, to maintain the current non-proliferation regime under the npt and even to strengthen it in 2010 at the review conference. i join my voice in calling for the european union countries to speak with one voice at this conference. it takes determination and consistency. secondly, it is important that the european-american alliance consistently combat terrorism. third, the effectiveness of the negotiations with north korea and the diplomatic approach to iran is important. fourthly, contrary to the views of some left-wing members, it is important to create a missile shield to protect not only the united states but also america's allies in europe from a strategic missile attack. it is also important that the shield has an interoperable short-range and intermediate-range missile defence system and that this system is an allied system. hence the crucial importance of the tbmd project, which is to be implemented by nato by 2010.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to express my gratitude for the support which is unanimous on many points. we must move from our present situation with greater energy to achieve a unified position in the preparation of the points which we have seen as setbacks in 2005. i would like to emphasize this point: of course, this nuclear non-proliferation treaty has come under pressure from various quarters, but if we are serious about it and after agreeing on the common position of 2005, it provides a basis which we must now also take into account in the current preparatory conference. i would like to emphasize what many people, including you, mr schulz, have said, namely that it is important to emphasize the multilateral approach. in fact, we all know from experience that unilateralism does not help. we need the multilateral approach! and the more we demand this, the more it becomes necessary to have a unified position within the european union to make progress on this issue. the european union has chosen the right path, both politically and diplomatically, particularly with regard to iran. although some may become impatient, as if there were many alternatives, this offer, which the council reaffirmed a few weeks ago, is the right one. we have both: we have a security resolution with appropriate sanctions, but the door to negotiations with iran is also still open. i would like to reiterate what i said at the beginning, in relation to non-proliferation, but also, of course, in relation to disarmament. this issue must remain on the agenda with a view to the peaceful use of nuclear energy, even if there are some differences of opinion on how to minimise the risks. it is important that we get broad support from the european parliament for the discussions that are certainly not easy to have ahead of us. as regards information and cooperation between the council and parliament, i can offer the presidency that we will, on the one hand, inform the committee responsible after the first meeting of the preparatory conference and, on the other hand, also explain how far we have come with regard to the 43 points contained in an earlier resolution, what has been achieved and what has not.
member of the commission. mr president, this was a very useful debate in a difficult situation. we will study your recommendations very carefully, because the preparatory conference in vienna gives us an important opportunity to better prepare for the 2010 conference and thus, hopefully, make up for a very difficult conference in 2005. we know that the seriousness and the importance of the situation as regards non-proliferation goes far beyond what is commonly known among our citizens. we conclude also from recent eurobarometer surveys that our people want positive action. i agree with mr zappalà and mrs neyts-uyttebroeck when they say that the agreement on the importance of the link between weapons of mass destruction, proliferation and terrorism is necessary. this has to be stressed in the european security strategy, and it is being stressed, but we now have to implement it in the right way. it is also my conviction that the efforts of the european parliament to promote coherence and more joint action are absolutely crucial. everyone has mentioned that speaking with one voice is also crucial. therefore, the commission needs your valuable support to maximise its impact with regard to the common objective. certainly, we will contribute to the work that will be done in vienna because this will enhance our credibility, as many have said. i should also like to thank mr pirker and parliament’s delegation, particularly with regard to north korea. i agree that north korea is important not only in itself but also as a possible window of opportunity for progress elsewhere. however, we are still committed to never giving up as long as that is possible. in our headlines, we see the non-proliferation issues mostly referred to with reference to individual countries. however, let us not lose sight of the importance of the issue, as mr schulz has said, of the international system as a whole on the multilateral approach and effectiveness. the most important four principles we should try to enhance again at the preparatory committee and then at the next review conference are as follows. firstly, the question of the non-parties: i think there are three states which have so far refused to adhere to the treaty. let us try to bring them in. secondly, on the withdrawals in january 2003, the dprk announced that it intended to withdraw from the npt – it was the first state to do so. several states believe that the dprk is still legally bound by the treaty and has not followed the correct legal procedures to withdraw. let us try to tackle this question on non-compliant parties. some states which acceded to the nnws have, nevertheless, sought to acquire nuclear weapons in the past and this, therefore, needs to be tackled. finally, there is the question of good faith. it has been mentioned a lot around the table that most non-nuclear weapons states believe the nuclear weapons states have not done enough to make progress towards the goal of nuclear disarmament – article 6. i think this should be the main bone of our contention at the five-yearly review conferences. we also see, therefore that a broad basis for a consensus is necessary, and all the big countries, like russia and china, should be included in such a dialogue.
i have received six draft resolutions. submitted in accordance with article 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12.30 p.m. written declaration (rule 142) of the holder of the procedure
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on childcare.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw the attention of the president, of all those present in this house, and of the representatives of the commission and the council, to the fact that the demographic situation in europe can only improve if the interests of children put more pressure on politicians. and the only way that's going to be possible, to a significant degree, is if we give political rights to children. the right to vote for children, which should be given to children and placed in the hands of their legal guardians, their parents. such an attempt has already been made in the bundestag. the bundestag was discussing a bill that would grant voting rights to children from birth, and that would be available to the parents of these children and their legal guardians. this would obviously require very substantial legal changes, but it would seem to give europe's demographic interest a better chance than the current legal situation. so, unfortunately, when it was being discussed in the bundestag, the bill fell through despite the support of many political authorities and the support of the commission, in which it was being debated. i'm noticing that.
i think the european parliament will join in congratulating my grandson on his birthday today.
mr. chairman, please! europe is getting old. we hear it and we see it every step of the way. in the european union, fewer and fewer children are being born. why would you do that? have we stopped loving our children? no, i'm not going. we are only more aware of the difficulties of raising them, and women in europe are deciding less and less often and later on to become mothers. one reason for this is to ensure that children are cared for while working. only women who have adequate childcare can concentrate on their work responsibilities. countries that provide adequate protection for women during pregnancy, childbirth, breastfeeding and later, during child rearing, have lower rates of female unemployment. the right treatment of citizens, regardless of their gender or origin, their development and protection from birth to old age is a fundamental principle that must be respected in the modern world.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank you very much for your contributions. if i have followed everything correctly, there is a great deal of agreement as to the objective we have set ourselves. the objectives were formulated a few years ago. the commitments have also been taken over. we have seen that these objectives have not yet been achieved in all the member states. we have a relatively short time to reach the target of the 2010 deadline. it is also important that the debate on the alliance for families be given new impetus, and not only in germany, as mr andersson said at the beginning of his speech. the specific issue of whether children may be required to be in childcare facilities was addressed in various ways. so the key word is freedom of choice. freedom of choice is a very important goal. no one dictates what kind of child care you should get or how many children you should have. that's not up for debate at all. however, in special cases this freedom of choice is not given at all because there are no special care facilities. the commission, you in your contributions and the presidency have all made it clear that it is important to stick to this objective in the light of various aspects. the theme of equal opportunities has been raised, as well as the compatibility of family and work, demographic change and education for children. another important point is that we have committed ourselves to increasing the employment rate of women, including in the area of flexicurity. so there are a number of aspects that have been taken into account in this debate. i would like to express my warm welcome once again to what commissioner špidla has said, namely that he will present a document next year to see what has happened as a result of the debates in the council and in the european parliament and what is the state of play in terms of the achievement of these objectives? i would like to thank you very much for this open debate and i can only say once again that each of us in the member state where the objectives have not yet been achieved or where there is a risk that they will not be achieved by 2010 is called upon to provide the political impetus needed to achieve the objectives we have agreed on by 2010.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is quite clear that the objectives of the barcelona strategy are correct and that the debate has confirmed a very broad consensus on this point. it is also clear that many countries are still far from meeting these objectives and that it is therefore appropriate to use all the means at our disposal to encourage member states and change the situation. the reasons for the barcelona strategy are obvious, but let me repeat them. first, without an appropriate childcare structure, the fundamental goal of gender equality cannot be achieved. secondly, without this structure, it is not possible to respond adequately to demographic ageing. and of the questions that came up, two were very specific. the first was whether the commission was following developments in the barcelona strategy. yes, as i have stressed in my report on the lisbon strategy. the second question was whether there are any benchmarks that we can use to compare countries. currently, comparisons between countries are based on data they provide themselves, and there are methodological problems in comparing these data. it's easy to follow developments within one country, but very difficult to compare one country to another. this situation is considered insufficient and therefore work is under way to develop a single assessment approach and should be completed by the end of this year. the third question that was asked was whether we are focusing more on the option for parents in the barcelona strategy or not. yes, the way the goals are worded, it's clear. member states should aim to be able to provide care for at least 90% of children aged 3 and over by 2010. provide care, or give parents a choice whether to choose this option or not. in this sense, the objective is clearly defined and beyond doubt. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate. i think it's absolutely clear that there's still a lot of work to be done, but on the other hand, there's also a lot of work that we can do.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the commission communication on the consumer policy strategy 2007-2013.
member of the commission. mr president, it gives me great pleasure to be able to present to you the new eu consumer policy strategy for 2007-2013, adopted today by the commission. i see this as our contribution to making every citizen safe and confident everywhere in the union. i hope this house will give its support to this goal. this is also our contribution to increasing the economic wellbeing of our citizens and the competitiveness of the eu economy. i know the importance of consumer policy to parliament and welcome the support that has been given to consumer policy in the past. your support for my nomination as commissioner for consumer policy clearly indicated your expectations of the commission, and i trust the strategy will be in line with your priorities. what is important for the consumer financial programme 2007-2013, in relation to which parliament has been a key actor in the legislative process in terms of ensuring the smooth adoption of that programme? the programme is an important tool for the delivery of the strategy, and the changes made in the programme to take account of your views have also been factored into the strategy. the strategy and, indeed, my appointment as the first commissioner for consumer affairs are the beginnings of a response to the vision of this parliament. some of you have been calling for a stronger consumer dimension to all eu policies for some time now. consumer policy seems to me to be equally well placed to tackle the two big challenges the eu faces today: boosting growth and jobs, and reconnecting with our citizens. on growth and jobs, it is clear that the internet is fundamentally changing the retail sector, but these changes have, in practice, so far been limited to national markets. on the retail side of the internal market, we see fragmentation into 27 national mini-markets, and this is both a pity and a missed opportunity as the internal market has the potential to be the largest retail market in the world, with significant benefits to consumers and to the competitiveness of the eu economy. opening up cross-border retail is the key to unlocking the full potential of the internal market. if cross-border shopping becomes a credible alternative to domestic shopping, then competitive pressure will increase, not only in cross-border shopping but also in domestic retail markets. the integration effect does not require all, or even most, consumers to do most of their shopping across borders. our experience in removing obstacles to the cross-border sale of new vehicles shows that it is enough for cross-border shopping to be a credible alternative for competition to be enhanced in the domestic markets. this would be good for growth and jobs. however, we need a strategy that also responds directly to the aspirations of all our citizens. for them, an active consumer policy should be a central part of our efforts to show that they can improve their daily lives by taking advantage of opportunities created by europe in terms of broader markets, lower prices and guaranteed rights and protection. putting consumers at the heart of all eu policies and regulations is important. this is not just about a narrow consumer policy strip of european policy; the strategy commits us all, in parliament as well as in the commission, to look harder at all eu policies to be sure that we have properly taken account of the impact of consumers and have adjusted policies to maximise their benefits. president barroso has therefore decided to expand the mandate of the competitiveness group of commissioners to address the consumer dimension so that all proposals with a significant impact on consumers will in future undergo closer scrutiny. under our consumer policy, we see three main objectives over the next seven years. first, i want to empower europe’s consumers. this means creating the right market conditions for them to be able to make informed, considered and original choices and equipping them with the tools to do so. second, i want to enhance the economic and non-economic welfare of europe’s consumers in terms of price, choice, quality and affordability. third, i want to protect consumers effectively. market failures for consumers fall into two categories – those that individuals cannot address and those that they should address themselves. consumer laws should effectively protect consumers from the former and equip them to deal with the latter. in short, i want the commission to be able to tell all eu citizens by 2013 that they can shop anywhere in the eu, from the corner shop to the website, confident that they are equally effectively protected and to be able to tell all retailers that they can sell anywhere on the basis of a single, simple set of rules. we are a long way from those goals now. important progress has been made, with the help of the european parliament: the directive on unfair commercial practices, the regulation on consumer protection cooperation and the network of european consumer centres have made significant progress. we need to complete this work and act on a number of fronts: better rules on contracts, better enforcement, information, advice and redress all need to work as well in the internal market as at home if consumers and smes are to be persuaded to make this leap. harmonised rules in targeted areas are central to an integrated market – but not to keep lawyers and bureaucrats happy. a simple clear set of rules helps smes, consumers and enforcers, and i am not sure it is possible to encourage consumers and smes to see the eu market as a truly single territory without simple rules, but harmonised rules will not create this necessary increase in current levels of consumer confidence if harmonisation is agreed in a way that provides inadequate substantive levels of protection. my preference is for harmonised rules and good protection. this commission has recently launched an important consultation in this area and i welcome parliament’s opinion on these matters. in conclusion, in such a short time i can only give a brief flavour of the strategy. i think it sets out an ambitious agenda and on that we will require parliament’s support in order for it to be successfully delivered.
thank you very much. thank you. thank you for your well wishes, too. parliament is an institution where nothing is hidden.
mr. chairman, please! it is true that we are not doing enough to deal with consumer policy, and in particular with its health and protection of young consumers. the health of our population determines our productivity, and that determines the amount of economic growth, which in turn determines our standard of living, and therefore our consumption. finally, the fundamental problem is the living conditions of children and young people, which are determined by social, health, educational and environmental conditions. all of this contributes to the increase in births and the raising of healthy, educated young people who decide our future. how will we support these tasks at union level? what should be done in the member states? it is true what the commissioner said, that this is a task and a question for all commissioners.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall start with the group of questions concerning collective redress, beginning with that by mrs patrie. as i said, last week we launched a study on collective redress, and once we have received all the results, we will present them and discuss the outcome with parliament. however, there is no doubt that the collective interest of consumers, in a case such as the small-scale complaint that you mentioned, is very important for ensuring the fairness of the market and also for shaping the market behaviour of producers. we will therefore pursue our efforts in this area, which concerns precisely the first and third pillars of our consumer policy – to empower the consumer and to protect the consumer, not in a paternalistic way, but quite the opposite. this means that we will need more active citizens and more tools available for them. with regard to mr stubb's question about priorities, the competitiveness commissioners will start to systematically review policy initiatives to ensure consumer outcomes are given greater weight. this concerns the information society, the digital world, energy liberalisation and trade instruments. the first initiatives are in our work programme. i believe that once this is done, if i may borrow from one of mr stubb's articles, we will be able to say that europe is becoming more 'cool' and easier to understand for citizens. as regards the question by mrs schaldemose on de minimis rules, i do not think we can label the rules as minimalist or as maximalist. we need a certain amount of very well measured regulation, precisely implemented, and i do not believe that de minimis rules would always be helpful. i shall now turn to the question by mr dimitrov. allow me to switch into bulgarian. г-н димитров, вие представихте това, което считат за правилно провайдърите на такъв тип услуги. вие буквално прочетохте тяхното писмо, с което аз съм запозната отдавна. но аз имам и друго писмо и това е от гледна точка на потребителските организации. в събота, в софия, аз ще участвам в една конференция, която е специално насочена към тези права онлайн. и се надявам, че тогава ще могат да се чуят и двете страни. в противен случай, от тук да коментираме чл. 56 на националното ни законодателство, не е може би най-доброто време за това. но мога да ви уверя, че цялото внимание ще бъде отдадено на това да има повече информация и да могат да се видят различните гледни точки. then, the impact assessment and cross-border problems – how the new approach could go in the right direction: i think this is exactly what the new approach is targeting, but, unfortunately, i do not have a recipe as to how we can avoid any trouble and make implementation go smoothly. this very much depends on the individual country. the only way i know is to communicate more, to explain more and to rely on the european consumer centres, on enforcement bodies in the member states and on consumer organisations. that is why i believe that adding a strong consumer dimension to member state governments’ policies and to non-governmental organisations is absolutely crucial for development. regarding tangible penalties: if there is an infringement i will not hesitate to start such a procedure, but first let us think how better to implement and to enforce, and then, if necessary, we can go further. on the last question about microsoft: frankly, i do not think that i have enough information to speculate on this case. concerning the young generation, i could not agree more that this is one of the commission’s main targets. i very much appreciate the approach taken by my colleague commissioner kyprianou on the health programme, and i think that it would be useful if we had the same approach on the consumer side targeting the young generation. we should really educate and teach the young generation of consumers – somebody called them ‘digital natives’!
we move on to the next item.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr leichtfriede, on his excellent work. europe, like the rest of the world, needs a well-functioning, fully safe civil aviation, covering both passenger and cargo traffic, as well as sports and air tourism and pilot training. appropriate technical, organisational and legal measures must therefore be taken. of course, environmental issues and the needs of airline staff cannot be ignored. all of this, of course, has a financial dimension. the existing regulation (ec) no 1592/2002 is almost five years old and has done its job well. however, today new circumstances arising from the increase in traffic and terrorist threats on the one hand and the need to streamline and harmonise the whole complex system of aviation rules, procedures and standards on the other must be taken into account. the regulation in question must therefore be consistent with other regulations on the subject, starting with the chicago convention on aviation. i am convinced that the european aviation safety agency will be able to carry out its tasks responsibly in cooperation with the individual member states, which i would like to stress very strongly, that there will be unification of safety standards, that these standards will be high. the special role of international cooperation in air transport is worth recalling. the absence of a european union representation in icao, the un agency dealing with global aviation issues, should be considered as a deficiency requiring a solution. the regulation provides for the inclusion of non-eu aircraft in the scope of the aviation safety agency, which is good and will allow the external air operator to be checked for compliance with safety standards before being authorised to operate. i also agree with the rapporteur on the future extension of the agency's remit to the issues currently dealt with by eurocontrol. in supporting this regulation and almost all its amendments, i would like to stress, on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, that the subject of our action must be first and foremost the passenger, and more specifically the safety and comfort of his air travel, both at the airport and in the air. in this context, i see the need to continue the process of harmonising european and global legislation in this important area.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the petitions committee, of which i am chairman, has been dealing with the issue of illegal bird hunting in malta for some time. we've received a petition from a number of bird-watching societies. these associations have a total membership of several hundred thousand. these hunts are reprehensible for three reasons. first, because they take place in the spring. second, because they're held up to traps. and third, because they're done from motorboats from the sea. this hunt is very resisted and recently the committee on petitions received two thick volumes of work on the latest violations of the rules on which the hunt should be conducted. here on the cover, we see a picture of a fish, the osprey, which is a bird that is dying in europe, and that is being hunted. it is worth noting that these hunts are only for migratory birds, because there are no birds in malta that stay for a long time. they are just birds that fly vast distances, often from southern africa to northern europe or vice versa, and come to malta only to rest for a short time and then die at the hands of hunters. ladies and gentlemen! the majority of the population in malta, as we've seen, is against this hunt. the petitions committee held a special fact finding mission on this matter last year. we get the impression that only a small part of the population is involved in this hunt, but because they are recruited from different political parties, they are therefore targeted by different politicians on both sides of the political spectrum, and in effect, although they are a small minority, they are in a strong position because all the parties are targeting them. it's about these hunters who go out and hunt birds. ladies and gentlemen! we have been informed that the government is now once again planning to grant permits for spring hunting, which is causing the greatest loss of bird life in malta, and indeed in europe, because as i say, these are migratory birds. this is a problem for birds in europe, but not in malta, because there are no permanent birds there. i therefore put the following question to the european commission: despite the commission's initiation of infringement proceedings against malta and in spite of the recommendations of the committee on petitions following the fact-finding mission in may last year, the maltese government is preparing to grant a licence for the hunting of wild birds in spring 2007. in accordance with the annual practice of the maltese government since malta's accession to the european union in 2004. and what urgent action does the european commission intend to take to persuade the maltese authorities to effectively ban the practice of hunting wild birds, especially during the spring migration season? considering that many of these birds, including birds of prey such as fish, are endangered species. how does the commission intend to oblige the maltese government to respect its commitments and to implement and enforce the wild birds directive? i'm not going to let you do this. i, the committee on petitions, and this house are awaiting your response.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i'd like to reconcile the two points of view that have been presented here. it is with great pleasure that i reconcile our friends in the socialist party and the people's group. we thank the entire german presidency for the success of this summit and those of its members who come from the spd and those of its members who come from the cdu. it is a very good and hopeful german success, a success of the german presidency and we are happy about it. we are pleased that the pragmatic approach of the german presidency has worked. i would also like to thank the president of our parliament very much, because we know how active and positive a role he played at this summit - thank you very much, mr president. it is a very good and hopeful example of the fact that our parliament wants to play a major role in the process of european integration. the summit was a success because it sent a very important signal outside the european union on two important issues: a signal of unity and a signal of the pragmatic and forward-looking approach of our organisation. everyone around the european union has learned that the union can be solidary in energy matters. it has given a clear signal that it wants this solidarity and it has given a clear signal that we want to build the future of the european union on the basis of a solidarity approach to the question of energy security. i think that what has happened in the last few months has made everyone in the european union aware of the importance of energy security, not just for the economy but even, in the extreme case, simply for the living standards of the individual citizens of the european union. it has shown that we have been able to reach agreement on this matter and i am very pleased to welcome the outcome of this summit. it is good that the union is setting itself ambitious targets to tackle this very important issue for the future of europe, the problem of climate change. finally, i would like to say that it is optimistic that this first summit of the enlarged european union has once again shown that enlargement is not a problem. i think too often our friends from the old eu countries stress that enlargement is a problem. it is worth emphasising, and i say this as a pole, that the enlargement of the european union, both that of two and a half years ago and the recent one, is a success for us all. that's how the citizens of the new countries see it. i wish we could all feel that way. the enlargement of the european union is a success and it is worth remembering. the summit showed that if we play together, we can succeed.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner! i would like to say that the last council under the german presidency is not only an example of effective action but of the combination of axiology, attachment to values and pragmatic policy. europe is about freedom, solidarity and innovation. the idea is that energy policy should also serve this purpose. energy solidarity will serve, it can serve freedom. how can innovation and solidarity be combined in energy policy? i wanted to point out that the countries that have re-joined after a long period of separation from europe are poor countries, they are countries that will not support the 3 x 20 programme and then the implementation of this programme could increase internal divisions. i would appeal to commissioner verheugen to remember that community policy should be directed towards common objectives.
mr. chairman, please! the council summit is a step forward in the construction of europe. however, in order not to get too complacent, let's take a critical look at the status quo for selected areas. and as far as the lisbon strategy, the 3% gdp target for education by 2010, that's an improvement, but it's not going to catch up with america. the intellectual potential of europeans will remain untapped for a long time to come. as for energy policy, the target of 20% renewable energy, the use of fossil fuels, including coal, should not blind us to the current energy problems. the annex speaks of a common european policy, one which coordinates the member states, but which should not, as we have seen recently, undermine the cohesion of europe. the current situation with gas supplies from russia - the gas crisis in belarus and ukraine - is a test for our energy policy and security in general and should be a lesson for us, not just a fleeting ephemeral. the challenge russia is putting to us is not easy, but europe will not be a weak clown on the stage, provided that it speaks with a common voice, which is often lacking. maybe this summit will make a difference. the recent actions of the commission on the ecological concern for the rospud valley, while there was no such vote on the construction of the baltic gas pipeline, show how selective, inconsistent and inconsistent these actions are. she weeps over the dying rose as the forests burn. so he's not talking about strategic events, and he's engaging in imponderables. finally, i would like to point out europe's main weakness. it's a continuous lack of solidarity at the level of government and nations. it is not so much a question of records as of a sense of common destiny rooted in tradition, especially christian tradition, and based on common goals that still need to be defined. the energy problem is now a test for european solidarity, and this solidarity will be the energy for its future development.
mr. chairman, please! it's been a long time since there was such a consensus around the european union summit. this summit is being praised by heads of state, we are praising it here (all the debaters). it's natural to ask the question, what happened politically? how is it possible that for the first time in many, many months, there has been a success that everyone is celebrating? well, there was a great hunger for success, there was a great need to demonstrate unity. but let's be clear, this summit that took place on march 8th is actually preceding a very important discussion on the constitution. and in the shadow of that success, there's an ongoing debate. the dilemma of what the european union should be, even after the success of the previous summit, has not been resolved. the question is therefore whether this agreement on energy will give energy and courage to all those who want to make the difficult decisions about the future of europe. or is it the other way around? it may be that, as some european leaders have said, if we have reached agreement using the old mechanisms, why change the mechanisms? i warn all those who are preparing the berlin declaration, who are preparing constitutional solutions, that if everyone says the same, everyone is praising this success, in fact every country, or most countries, thinks differently. if this summit is to prove to be the european union's last success, because there will be only problems afterwards, then it is a pity that these big words are being spoken in this chamber.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on community statistics on migration and international protection mrs klamt has produced a very good report which raises important issues in the area of effective mechanisms for the collection and analysis of information on migration and asylum in the european union. the enlargement of the union has brought with it an additional need for harmonised and comparable statistics. the provision of accurate information is essential to ensure the development and monitoring of community legislation and policies relating specifically to immigration and asylum.
in writing. the european court of justice's decisions requiring the revision of aviation agreements between the european union and non-eu countries have presented us with a whole new set of challenges. this is particularly the case for agreements with countries such as russia and the united states, and in particular the united states. it must be remembered that the ets decision is binding on one party, namely the european union. the union must negotiate a new treaty. it's our duty to do so. this puts the union's negotiators in a more difficult position in advance. the commission is therefore pleased that the european commission managed to reach a partial agreement, which is not yet fully satisfactory, two weeks ago, after another difficult round of negotiations. it's a first step, a big step forward. in this march forward, however, it is important not to set unrealistic goals. i am convinced that this is the case with the demands for a unified social policy in the aviation sector on both sides of the atlantic, which would in fact mean attempting to impose the european social model on the united states. are we not committing the sin of pride in this case too? i am in favour of the emphasis on the exchange of good environmental practice. because even if global warming is a global myth, the environment itself is a priceless asset.
in writing. i would like to express my support for the idea of a euro-mediterranean partnership and the establishment, in accordance with the barcelona declaration, of a euro-mediterranean free trade area by 2010. as a member of the ep committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to draw attention to aspects related to the liberalisation of agricultural trade with the euromed countries. i believe that the opening of markets between the european union and the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean should be gradual and planned, and that negotiations on market access must be conducted on an individual basis, separately for each product and taking into account the specific characteristics of the agricultural sector in the euromed countries. it is necessary to ensure that sensitive goods (such as fruit and vegetables, sugar, ethyl alcohol, tomato concentrate) are excluded from the planned trade liberalisation and the european community should guarantee the possibility of applying special safeguard clauses which can be the main instrument to counter possible risks associated with excessive and excessively cheap imports. it is also important to encourage the euromed countries to improve the quality of exported products and to comply with the quality and phytosanitary standards required by the eu.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank the rapporteur, mrs pack, for the sound proposal we are discussing today. it is certainly a sign of the progress bosnia and herzegovina has made towards meeting democratic standards. to continue this progress, the people of this country and the elites of its three nationalities must be shown the clear prospect of membership of the union. not today, not tomorrow, not the day after, but in a realistic future. of course, first of all, bosnia and herzegovina must meet all the basic standards in terms of human rights, the fight against corruption, judicial reform, administrative reform, but above all, it must conduct a real interfaith dialogue and dialogue between the nationalities living in this country, a country that is the scene of the largest armed conflict in europe since world war ii. bosnia and herzegovina cannot be held hostage to our intra-eu discussion on institutional reform. the report by mrs doris pack is a green light for this country on its way to the european community.
mr. chairman, please! bosnia and herzegovina, after the bloodiest conflict in europe since the second world war, is moving towards european integration, which will require the multi-ethnic state to make changes in many areas of political and social life, including changes to its constitution. only after these changes will it be ready to fulfil the criteria necessary for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement and, in the future, perhaps apply for membership of the union. to achieve this, the political leaders of bosnia and herzegovina should undertake rapid and substantial administrative and economic reforms. the council should, however, call on bosnia and herzegovina to resolve immediately any border disputes with neighbouring states, and in particular to ratify the agreement on the delimitation of land and river borders, and to end segregation of different ethnic groups in schools. only the council's strong pressure can bring about the changes i have mentioned. we must remember that in the interest of ensuring lasting peace in the balkans, the international community must speak with one voice on bosnia and herzegovina.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i welcome the opening of the debate on the reform of the european union's trade policy instruments. the current system of trade defence instruments, which has remained unchanged for the past dozen or so years, is no longer sufficiently effective to counteract the negative effects of increasing globalisation. since the problem is too vast to be discussed in detail here, i would like to draw attention to the issues that should be changed. first, the basis for the commission to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of a product is to show that its price on the union market does not exceed its cost of production. the commission therefore primarily examines the prices of the factors of production, e.g. wages, prices of materials, energy, etc., and does not examine whether the entrepreneur bears the costs of social security contributions for employees or whether he bears the costs of complying with environmental protection standards. it is thus difficult to conclude that the costs quoted are incomplete and thus the price of the product which does not include them is artificially undercutting the price. secondly, very often the relatively high prices of some products originating in the union and thus the lack of competitiveness on the world market are due to the need to meet very high standards, for example in terms of animal welfare. the european union should require that such products brought into the european union market from third countries also meet such standards. thirdly, the european commission is very cautious about the application of so-called safeguard clauses, which are intended to protect the union market against a sudden flood of the union market by a given type of product. however, this instrument is much faster and easier to use than anti-dumping duties. finally, fourthly, the commission should also endeavour to reduce to the minimum necessary the time between the initiation of the procedure and the implementation of the trade defence instrument concerned. at present, this period is several months, for example, in the case of anti-dumping duties, up to nine months, which exposes european producers to huge losses.
the green paper and the debate on trade policy instruments are of great economic importance and can bring us considerable added value. foreign trade policy must respond effectively to any changes in the production and distribution of goods on the external and internal markets of the european union. for example, our market can promote the purchase of biofuel ingredients that have too high a development prospect and limit imports that reduce production in the sugar industry, for example. in our mutual relations we should help our suppliers who, through promotional or association agreements, could launch production related to our needs. our dumping practices are long-term and indecisive, doing more harm than good. an example of this is the importation of frozen strawberries from china. the provision of anti-dumping protection took several years, which led to the closure and bankruptcy of many plantations. analysis of the efficiency of the operation and a radical reduction in existing bureaucratic procedures can lead to the establishment of clear working rules and responsibilities for the proper and rapid handling of the application. the second problem in the european union is to define the rules of the common commercial policy so as not to give rise to unfair competition from the outside. the issues i've highlighted require constant monitoring. thank you very much for provoking this discussion.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign trade. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to thank the rapporteur for a comprehensive and balanced report, which has a special dimension today. it is a very important guide and aid to the negotiation of the association agreement between the european union and the andean community at a very specific moment for this region of political and economic change. the andean community is an efficient and coherent system of integration of the individual countries of latin america. both the union and the andean community have an interest in deepening their political and economic relations. the guidelines prepared for the council are a coherent and comprehensive document containing the elements needed to create a satisfactory environment for cooperation. the rapporteur stresses the important role of political dialogue, the promotion of sustainable development and education, human rights, but also the fight against drug trafficking, arms trafficking and organised crime. it stresses that free trade should be the basis of this cooperation. the association agreement must progressively liberalise trade and develop political relations, while promoting democracy, social rights and cultural characteristics of the region. i welcome the inclusion in the negotiating directives of the role of smes in the accession process, which i have emphasised in my opinion in the committee on international trade. as we all know, the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is one of the main sources of economic growth and has a key impact on the living standards of the population and on poverty reduction. i therefore believe that particular emphasis should be placed on promoting this sector by facilitating access to credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, eliminating unnecessary barriers to trade and implementing programmes aimed at innovation and development.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr pleite and mr garcía, for their well-done work on the association agreements with the countries of central america. the policy objective of enhancing cooperation is exhaustive. the countries of central america are closely linked to european and latin culture, and it is only natural that we should start negotiations on association. the deal is to secure for us and them a better position in a globalized world. our aid to the area is now mostly humanitarian in nature. we give the fish, not the fish. the catch is china, india, the world's capital building roads, mines, factories, providing jobs and successfully selling their goods. our association negotiations should secure economic relations that will be beneficial to europe and the other associated countries of central america. only on such a foundation can a lasting economic, political and inter-community order be built. let european capital, in addition to supporting china and india, become more involved in the countries with which we intend to conclude an association agreement. the association agreements of other countries with the european union are of great political importance and will pass the test if they ensure economic cooperation on a lasting basis.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to thank willy meyer pleite for the report containing the european parliament's recommendation to the council on guidelines for the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and the countries of central america and luis yañez-barnuevo garcía for the report containing the european parliament's recommendation to the council on guidelines for the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and the andean community. the european parliament's recommendations stress that the objectives of association agreements are the gradual liberalisation of trade, political dialogue and cooperation, the promotion of sustainable social development, social cohesion, the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and full respect for human rights and civil, political, economic and social rights, while taking into account the cultural and environmental dimensions of these rights. the andean community and the countries of central america have made peaceful transitions from authoritarian regimes to democracies in the last twenty years. the european community played a significant role in these processes in the 1980s. the european parliament's recommendations refer to this tradition. the liberalization of trade cannot be an end in itself, but a way to consolidate democracy and the rule of law, social development and sustainable development in latin america. the european union's association agreements with the countries of central america and the andean community must combine politics, trade and development.
mr. chairman, please! in central america, the european union is slowly becoming a dictionary of unknown words. european political influence in the region is declining, despite the fact that it was european countries that back in the 1980s supported the process of democratization in the region. in the last 11 years, trade between the union and central america has fallen by 11%, to 13% today, despite our unilateral preferences. the association agreement may change this situation somewhat. the second association agreement with the andean community comes at a very interesting political time in the region. the union is faced with the challenge of changing the balance of power in these areas following the victories of the anti-american left in venezuela and bolivia. in fact, this is more conducive to the process of economic and political integration of all latin america than mercosur is able to guarantee. i thank the rapporteurs, willy meyer pleite and luis yañez-barnuevo garcía, for the work they have done. i regret that we are debating such important matters shortly before midnight.
mr. chairman, please! despite the undeniable contribution the european union has made to strengthening the peace process and building democratic structures in the central american region, its role has been markedly weakened in the last decade. as already mentioned, this trend can also be observed in relation to trade, which decreased from 24% to only 13% in 2001. this situation clearly demonstrates the importance of signing a new association agreement between the european union and the countries of central america. in addition to the unquestionable economic benefits, this agreement will also impose certain obligations on the eu countries, mainly in relation to supporting democratic and decentralisation processes and improving the effectiveness of administrations in combating violence, corruption and human rights violations. these obligations are therefore the reason why the future association agreement should not only be a trade agreement but also include cooperation on political and social grounds. the fight against poverty, social inequality can be a very useful tool in the process of strengthening democracy, regaining the trust of public institutions and the political elites who should be the guardians of these values. another very important element of the future association agreement seems to be the definition of environmental standards. the incentive system will certainly be tested in earlier cases as an aid to their enforcement. all the elements i have mentioned should be part of the future association agreement and at the same time pillars of cooperation between the european union and the countries of central america. only by playing an active role and being involved in the region can we contribute to its real economic development, social and political stability and the consolidation of democratic values.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate the rapporteur on her work. today we can honestly say that citizens of the union are not always citizens of the same category. there are areas in our community which are particularly difficult to reach because of their remoteness or difficult accessibility. these include island areas, which are often both ultra-peripheral and mountainous. we are talking about solidarity, internal cohesion. these basic principles require that we give proper attention and, when necessary, appropriate help to the people living there. transport difficulties, the scarcity of raw materials, the high cost of energy supply, the difficulty of accessing the internet and telecommunications networks, the difficult topographical conditions, especially in the mountains and in the far north, depopulation and illegal immigration are the main problems addressed in the report. i would like to join the conclusions of the author in urging us not to leave these areas to chance, to ourselves.
mr. chairman, please! each enlargement of the union has led to a systematic increase in the role of islands in all community policies. from territorial cohesion to tourism and culture. unfortunately, the union's policy to date has little regard for the specific circumstances of islands and the problems they face in competing with continental regions. in this regard, there is an urgent need to define statistical indicators to help identify the specific characteristics of all areas with difficult geographical conditions. in addition, it is necessary to take account of the need for access to the common market for island areas on the same terms as those existing on the continent, with priority being given to improving transport links on the islands. any commission should consider granting special aid to these regions as well, as fuel and energy costs have a clear negative impact on their competitiveness. the energy security of the islands and the implementation of the project in this area, based on renewable energy sources and new technologies, are another priority. the commission should also examine the impact of climate change on island regions. in appreciating the work of frontex, the need to monitor the impact of illegal migration on island communities on an ongoing basis should be underlined. member states must not forget to ensure that the exceptional nature of island regions is effectively protected in terms of environmental protection, cultural wealth and the sustainable development of tourism, which is also a factor in the growth of other sectors such as trade, fisheries and agriculture. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-drafted document.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur very much and congratulate him on his insightful presentation of the problem of natural and economic constraints in island regions in relation to regional policy. the special nature of these areas is generally recognised by most member states. however, despite the efforts made in the framework of regional policy, the position of island regions in the regional gdp classification has remained virtually unchanged over the last twenty years. it is welcome that the european commission has noted that gdp per capita and unemployment rates are considered insufficient indicators to measure the socioeconomic situation of regions with natural disadvantages. in these areas, the capacity to respond constructively to economic change is limited, and island economies are more affected by economic crises. the economic situation in island regions often depends on a limited number of economic sectors. the islands are heavily dependent on the public sector. another important issue raised by the other speakers is illegal immigration. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should assess the special needs of island regions and make proposals to address them, and that this issue should be duly taken into account in the fourth cohesion report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the role of local government in solving the problems of urban and rural communities cannot be overestimated. it therefore welcomes the fact that all the documents analysed by the author recognise them as full development actors, commit to recognise their powers, and underline their importance and key role in achieving various objectives. it's too bad that this positive image is only declarative. few people, whether governments or organisations, are using the experience of local governments to really solve local problems. they are not used in the sphere of planning or social economy. knowing that the presence of local governments throughout the country enables them to provide a proximity policy and regularly communicate the expectations of the communities concerned, that they are able to solve local problems, that their involvement can contribute to strengthening local democracy, we continue to rely on government administration. we need to use our knowledge and faith as soon as possible to support the actions of local governments and to create the role they fully deserve. i think mr pierre schapira's excellent report will help to do that.
mr. chairman, please! local governments play a key role in development by stimulating and coordinating the activities of economic and social actors present at the local level. the involvement of local governments in development policy is essential to achieve the millennium development goals and to ensure good governance. local authorities have been experts in all sectors of development for over 30 years. remember that local governments have increasing budgets. they form a global network of solidarity that spans five continents. local governments are closer to the area than national or international donors, enabling them to observe the local impact of national and international development strategies. i would like to thank mr pierre schapir for producing a comprehensive report which takes account of the various aspects of the relationship between local government and development cooperation. the european parliament's report combines 60 years of european cooperation between cities with development policy in today's global civilization. i would like to stress in particular that in our report we ask the commission to launch a global observatory on local democracy and decentralisation, in partnership with local government organisations. this could lead to the establishment of a global map of local governance, containing a list of projects, entities, budgets collected by local governments around the world. this would facilitate coordination, coherence and synergy between the various local authority partners.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by supporting the idea expressed in mr schapira's report that the european union should rely mainly on local authorities in the african, caribbean and pacific states in supporting their development. in this context, firstly, there is a need to strengthen the capacity of local authorities in acp countries, as only a strong local government is able to take responsibility for the provision of basic public services. secondly, it is essential that local governments are able to provide the most important services for human development, such as education, health care and culture, and to meet basic needs such as water supply, waste disposal and public transport. thirdly, it is necessary to direct a significant part of the budgetary assistance of the european union to developing countries directly to local governments in consultation with central authorities, because only in this way can the effectiveness of the aid provided be improved and the corruption and bureaucracy associated with it be reduced. fourth, support is also needed for the restructuring of local government financing systems so that their budgets can generate their own development finance, so that they become more financially self-sufficient.
we are debating today about local government and development cooperation at different levels of government. there is no doubt that it is at local government level that matters of importance to citizens and local communities in europe and around the world are dealt with on a daily basis, and that different problems are often dealt with according to specific circumstances. local governments play a key role in development by stimulating and coordinating the activities of economic and social actors present at the local level. my country, poland, is an example of increasingly dynamic local communities. i had proof of this when i visited the districts of choschensk and łobez in the west pomeranian voivodeship. it is to be hoped that the european union and its aid programmes and legislation will stimulate economic development in local communities rather than inhibit it, through excessive bureaucracy and bad regulation in europe and in developing countries.
in writing i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pierre schapir, for a very important project. there is no doubt that the role of local authorities in development cooperation is very important. this is true both in donor and recipient countries. that's because local government is closer to the people. they are better informed about the needs of local communities, social, economic and infrastructure problems. this will make development aid used by local governments more effective. we should use these features of local government more often and appreciate its competence. in turn, the development of local governments in developing countries can help reduce poverty and inequality. it is therefore worthwhile to support and even invest in the development of local governments. i agree with the demand that local governments receive funding to enable them to play their part in the achievement of the millennium development goals. many local authorities, especially in the new member states, are not in a position to finance this task from their own budgets. local authorities can also mobilise other local actors - universities, ngos, businesses. this mobilisation shall be aimed at stimulating citizen participation in public life in general and in development cooperation in particular. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to say that i voted for the malta resolution because there is almost no progress from the maltese government. we continue to see the killing of a huge number of birds in malta, many millions of them, in violation of all the fundamental principles adopted by the european union. i also wanted to say that in the voggenhuber report, by mistake in paragraph 2, in the first roll-call vote, i voted for and i wanted to vote against, and i would like to make a note of that.
in writing. i vote in favour of adopting the report on the respect of the charter of fundamental rights in the commission's legislative proposals - a methodology that ensures systematic and rigorous monitoring. mr johannes voggenhuber has produced a very good report on the fundamental issue of fundamental rights. it stresses the need to respect and respect them and to create instruments of freedom. the charter of fundamental rights should be binding without reservation. the commission's systematic monitoring and surveillance of all commission legislative proposals for their compliance with fundamental rights seems appropriate. the commission, as the main legislative body, should be responsible for checking the compatibility of draft legislation with other international instruments concerning the rights and freedoms guaranteed to citizens. i welcome the commission's position that, until the charter of fundamental rights enters into force, it intends to apply the charter of fundamental rights in its legislative proposals. the protection of fundamental rights and the guarantee of their observance should be one of the priorities of the union. the early review of commission acts for their compliance with fundamental rights seems to be a good sign and points to the direction of action by the union's institutions, which will hopefully end up giving binding force to the charter of fundamental rights.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my great satisfaction that the european union is moving in the right direction by increasing the role of local authorities in our cooperation with individual countries, and in particular with third countries, thus towards decentralising cooperation, decentralising aid. local authorities play a significant role in local and regional development because they know the needs of these communities best, are located closest to them and are usually democratically elected. they play a special role in the fight against poverty and inequality. there are institutions that are very much involved in education, health, the environment and entrepreneurship. it should be stressed that they usually do not have sufficient financial resources for these purposes, especially in poor regions where there is high unemployment. these local authorities do not receive adequate support from the budget of the member states. the inclusion of local government in our development policy therefore deserves our full support, now and in the future. this is confirmed by our experience of working with local authorities in the countries of the union, including in my country, poland.
the next item is the commission statement on the banning of seal products in the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their very constructive contributions to this afternoon’s discussion. first of all, i would like to repeat that from the conservation point of view there is no basis to take any action, because in 1970s we had 2 million seals of the most hunted species, and now we have 5.8 million of these seals. we are looking only at the second issue – it is very important. as regards the study, firstly i have to repeat that the commission fully recognises the high level of public concern regarding the application of humane killing methods, and in line with its commitment to high animal welfare standards, we will examine all available information. there are reports – which are partly contradictory – that seals are being hunted and killed in some regions in an inhumane way. the assessment that i referred to – and which one of the speakers found to be necessary – will present balanced, objective and operational conclusions and recommendations. the overall outcome should enable the commission to draw some conclusions and to come back with possible legislative proposals if this is warranted by the situation. regarding the moratorium, in legal terms the commission does not have available an immediate remedy to impose a moratorium on the import, export and trade in seal products. it would not be possible to refer to the safeguard measures provided for under the public health and animal policy that would allow for a temporary ban when public or animal health is threatened. for example, the decision to temporarily suspend imports of wild birds was adopted in order to protect animal and public health because of the risk of a worldwide spread of avian influenza. furthermore, under the trade policy there is no immediate remedy possible. any measure the european union decided to adopt would need to be necessary and proportional and would need to be notified to the world trade organization. at this stage it is therefore not appropriate, nor is it feasible, to impose an immediate trade ban. the commission first needs to carry out an objective assessment of all available information. the outcome of this assessment should enable the commission to draw sound conclusions and to come back with possible legislative proposals if this is warranted by the situation. reference was made to the united states, and its marine mammal protection act was enacted in 1972, which was before the international convention on trade in endangered species entered into force in 1975. furthermore, member states have the opportunity to impose measures according to the case law of the european court of justice, but the community has no such legal basis. i would ask you to urge your governments in your member states to impose bans – they have the legal means. we need to have the appropriate legal basis before we can impose bans at european union level and that is what we are trying to do by having an impact assessment and by gathering information. however, if you show your concern in your countries and urge your governments to impose bans, this will facilitate internal market reasons for the european union to take steps. finally, i wish to reiterate that the commission is strongly committed to high animal welfare standards, both within the european union and at international level. a full objective assessment of the animal welfare aspects of seal hunting will allow us to see the whole picture and have a solid basis before drawing any conclusions. we shall examine all available information and take the necessary steps. if it is established that seals are being hunted and killed in an inhumane way, a ban on the import and export, as well as the placing of products derived from the seal hunt on the market, will also be considered. we will report back to the european parliament within the shortest possible time. i repeat that we have already asked the european food safety authority to conduct the scientific part of the study, and i have written to the canadian government to ask that we be allowed to participate in a mission, and the european parliament is also invited to participate in order to see how the hunt is being organised. what you said previously about your experiences is very interesting.
mr. beazley, i understand that you have a formal request.
member of the commission. i saw in your letter that you fear the study will take years. that is not so. it is a matter of months.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the attack on galina kozlová, member of the administrative board of the organization mari ušem and editor-in-chief of the literary magazine ontšõko.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in this room, we protest against those who do not respect human rights, who violate the rule of law. we should consider the effect of our actions, which are the result of the solidarity of people of good will. i don't think it's what we wanted. and it's one of the ways to stop social processes that are bad for all of us, like the disregard for the human individual, the violence, the struggle for the freedom to express one's views, which every citizen of a democratic state should have. one such example is galina kozlov, a member of the board of the mari ušem organization, publisher of the literary magazine ontšõko. she is the wife of vladimir kozlov, chairman of the council of the republic of mari el. a man of great service to the republic, but who, like many journalists, does not conform to the political views of his opponents. as europeans, we have a duty to monitor, highlight and condemn discrimination against the mari people and attacks on their representatives and journalists. we are with mrs. galina kozlová in her fight for the interests of the people of mari and democracy.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament is concerned about the attack on galina kozlová, a member of the board of the national organisation mari ušem and editor of the literary magazine ontšõko in the republic of mari el of the russian federation. galina kozlov is the wife of the president of the council of the republic of mari el and the candidate for the 2006 sakharov prize, vladimir kozlov (remember that this prize was presented by the current president of estonia, then member of the european parliament toomas ilves). the question is, where is russia headed? we have more and more attacks on independent activists, journalists, more and more unsolved cases. the issues of repression, violation of human rights and the rights of minority ethnic groups in the russian federation are increasingly raised. are we looking at a deepening authorization of president putin's regime? this case should give us a lot to think about and we must demand from the russian state authorities an explanation and find the perpetrators of this robbery.
member of the commission. mr president, this has been an impressive debate and i have taken good note of all the points raised. it is good to focus our attention, from time to time, on issues which do not necessarily make the headlines in the eu. the attack on mrs galina kozlova was one such event, and i hope very much that she will make a full and speedy recovery and continue with her responsibilities. as i have said, the commission would like to have a constructive dialogue with russia on such matters. we are aware both of the criticism of the present situation regarding the mari people and of the efforts which have been made at official level in russia to safeguard their rights and their culture. modern societies need to find ways of addressing the situation of minorities to encourage peaceful and harmonious social economic development. we all need to continue making efforts in this respect. we shall aim, therefore, to use our contacts with russia, and in particular the human rights consultations, to identify ways in which we can work together to improve the situation. i have already mentioned that 3 may is one of those meeting days. the commission will continue to raise concerns about human rights at all levels, from the summit down. for a more detailed discussion, the best forum for an exchange of views with russia is the human rights consultations.
i have received three draft resolutions. submitted in accordance with article 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 5 p.m. today.
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on guatemala.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in guatemala, we have seen in recent months unexplained killings and unexplained threats and intimidation of union activists, politicians and the general public. human rights watch released its latest human rights report in january 2007, which found that the dirty war that ended in guatemala in 1996 left some 200,000 people dead over the 36-year war. i repeat, 200,000 killed in 36 years of dirty war in guatemala. in the last 20 years, we have seen democratization in guatemala, many advances in the rule of law and the formation of democratic institutions. however, guatemala remains a country where the rule of law is under threat and democracy is not really firmly rooted in the country. we're looking at a confluence of the realms of unexplained murders and disappearances of the past and the realm of big gangs and international crime of today. let me remind you that in july 2005, between 70 and 80 million documents related to the disbanded national police were discovered in guatemala. these documents contain a lot of information about the so-called missing during the dirty war. but to this day, the archive has no place in the world. it is high time that these issues were resolved in guatemala in a democratic way. today, mr president, this house voted on the recommendations to the commission on the association agreement with the countries of central america. my political group has stressed that we are combining trade liberalisation with a political perspective. trade liberalization in latin america cannot be distinguished from democratization. the european union must do everything it can to help the guatemalan people now to deepen democracy, to explain all the murders of the dirty war and to consolidate the peaceful transition towards real, genuine democratic structures in that country.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in the far-off country of guatemala, three of our fellow parliamentarians from that country were killed. and then, like in a crime movie, four police officers arrested in this case were shot in prison, including the head of the guatemalan anti-mafia unit. it sounds like a script for a sensational movie, but it's not a movie, it's life, it's life in guatemala. it is very good that the european parliament is reacting to this. i'm reacting to a country whose president has publicly admitted that the police in his country are corrupt. we're talking about a country that has a few thousand murders a year and is, along with colombia, a drug den. as you know, the central american parliamentary authorities are currently in talks with the re-elected president of nicaragua, daniel ortega, to move the seat of the central american parliament from guatemala, because it is so dangerous, to nicaragua. the paradox is that ortega becomes a sanctuary. i think that in this situation, indeed, mr posselt and mr pinior are right, we must take a firm, hard stand.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. guatemala is one of the poorest countries in latin america. of guatemala's 11 million people, more than half live below the poverty line. the civil war certainly had an impact on the present situation. it lasted 36 years, and it is estimated that over 200,000 civilians died. guatemalan society continues to be one of those that experience in a particular and permanent way violence, intimidation, corruption, violation of their civil rights. we cannot talk about democracy when politicians and high-ranking state officials responsible for maintaining public order are brutally murdered. a society cannot develop and function normally when it is constantly affected by violence. police corruption prevents any attempt to redress the bloody record, and it is well known that the military is largely responsible for crimes and serious human rights violations. the corruption of the state, politicians, administration, public services, all of which allows pathology and poverty to flourish. a frightened community becomes hostage to a criminal. reports from many international organizations indicate that guatemala is a haven for organized crime. this latin american country is listed as the place on the world map where the practice of trafficking in human beings, especially children, is widespread. every effort must be made to support and protect all those who dare to say 'no' to the illegal and corrupt structures linking the state with organised crime. ending impunity by prosecuting political violence is an essential step in this process. therefore, as in the case of other countries that flagrantly violate human rights, the union should ban from its territory politicians who, in the name of political correctness, accept corruption in public institutions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. our resolution on the murder of three salvadoran members of the central american parliament, along with their driver, near guatemala city, the capital of the country and the seat of the central american parliament, is a protest against the banditry that affects innocent people. guatemala is a country that has had its own government since 1839. it is inhabited by indigenous people of mayan culture, 80% of whom are catholic. unfortunately, the people of this country have had no luck with their government. undemocratic governments, military coups, civil war, drugs, corruption, poverty, all these things are conducive to those who spread a culture of violence and disregard for human rights. guatemala is a presidential republic, with legislative power exercised by the national congress. these centres of centralized power should take a firm stand against the pathological phenomena which destroy democracy and violate human rights. i think the resolution will help to accelerate the work on the values that are fundamental to all of us.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in some countries, unions are more than just unions. it was once in my country, in poland, solidarność it is today in cambodia. in poland, a quarter of a century ago, communists murdered trade unionists, and now the same thing has been done to a trade union leader in cambodia. so far, no one has been charged in the case, even though cambodia committed itself to respecting human rights and democratic principles in a special agreement signed between the country and the european communities a decade ago. this is, of course, a part of a larger whole, as my previous speakers have spoken so eloquently about. i would just like to remind you that for the last three years, we have been pushing for the adoption of an eight-part anti-corruption law in this country. we need to speak out loud about the situation in cambodia today so that we have no reason to speak out in the future.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: there is no doubt that we should also be concerned today with the situation in zimbabwe and the recent crackdown on political opposition in that country. my political group is presenting a resolution on nigeria. the situation in nigeria is currently being closely scrutinized by us due to the so-called "same sex marriage prohibition act" which has already had its first and second readings in parliament. nigeria has a huge prestige and importance in africa itself and in the global order of the world today. at the same time, in nigeria, we still have to deal with violence, civil rights violations, or even human rights abuses like forced child labor and child trafficking. the bill i'm talking about right now is of particular concern. i would like to point out that not only does it prohibit same-sex marriage, but it threatens arrest and imprisonment for even speaking out about the rights of different sexual communities, for organizing in clubs, for organizing in associations and cultural organizations. there is no doubt that the passing of this bill by the nigerian parliament could represent a very serious violation of human and civil rights in the country. i would like to point out that this is the way the bill was treated by human rights watch, which in its statement of january 28 described the bill as a manifestation of homophobia. the european parliament must call attention in all countries, especially in countries which enjoy such prestige and respect as nigeria, and which are such an important reference point for us in shaping the international political order, to respect for human rights, civil rights and modern culture.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the bill we are discussing here today, which is due to be adopted at third reading at the end of the current legislature in nigeria. the draft law openly violates fundamental rights and civil liberties, openly discriminates against some citizens and may lead to an increase in homophobia in society. the prohibition on the registration of any association or assembly that brings together people of different sexual orientation is additionally sanctioned with prison sentences for any public attempt, or even private presentation, of similar content. furthermore, there is a risk that this policy will consequently limit access to health services for lgbt people, thus undermining the effectiveness of the measures already taken to combat aids. in view of the above, the member states and the commission should take decisive action and prevent the nigerian authorities from adopting the act in its current form. the european union must also draw lessons for the future and give greater weight to the prohibition of discrimination in agreements with acp countries and third countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i've seen a lot of legislation in this house that i didn't agree with, and that's natural in politics. this is the first instance of an act being passed by this house that i disagree with so strongly. and i disagree so strongly because of his incredible hypocrisy. my judgment is based on five facts. firstly, the european parliament wants to interfere in other people's affairs, but not in criminal matters, not in criminal matters, but in legal acts which a sovereign state wants to adopt to regulate its own affairs. secondly, the joint resolution proposed here mixes criticism of the proposed legislation with alleged crimes that are to result from these legislative acts. third, nigeria is fighting a dramatic battle against aids. it wants to cut both the ways in which aids is most commonly transmitted and sex tourism, european sex tourism. we want to stop them from doing that under the guise of protecting them from aids. fourth, we're proposing the unlikely. the fourth item is sanctions. sanctions that were not applied to genocide in china, in tibet, in sri lanka, in sudan, and here it turns out that we are treating this country as it should have been treated, and it wasn't treated, the countries that commit the worst crimes. fifthly, i think it is highly inappropriate to put this on the agenda item on human rights. sixthly, i will be against this joint resolution, i will vote for the ppe resolution, although i also disagree with it, but i think that there is a better chance of overturning this resolution, which simply offends common sense.
i voted for the epp resolution on nigeria, i don't think it's a good one, but i think it would be a much bigger embarrassment to this house if a joint resolution was adopted, which was proposed by the left. i also think that the epp resolution is a better solution.
mr president, i would just like to add a word to what my colleague mr libicki has said: the epp proposal is not the result of a compromise.
madam chancellor, mr. president, i have to go. the two greatest successes of integration are the common market and enlargement. the common market has brought prosperity to europeans, and enlargement has given the european union a strong position in global affairs. yet, rather than showcase these successes, the berlin declaration hides them under vague terms of openness and cooperation. it is a serious mistake to significantly underestimate the role of the member states: the declaration is written in the name of the citizens themselves. if we want to develop integration, we must give greater weight to those member states which are the supporters of integration rather than the enemies of it. mr. schulz, please! do not use the constitutional treaty, president kaczynski or president klaus when it comes to enlargement. blocking the expansion will only be an expression of our own, and yours, fear of the future. the omission of christianity is also disturbing. it is a manifestation of the prejudices that make european values simply impossible.
i'm not going to let you down. i would like to thank you first of all for having succeeded in bringing europe out of its melancholy, its sense of failure and sadness. europeans not only sang "ode to joy", but they were joyful on march 25. the berlin declaration, madam chancellor, is about how it is implemented. its place in the history of the european union depends on what happens next. the berlin declaration states a very important thing: that the unification of europe has taken place. and it tells us who made this union possible. but it may also be said that the unification of europe is only now taking place, and that between east and west. it's about combining two different memories and sensitivities. there is also a need for a strong and integrated europe. it is the task of european unification. and there is also this sentence in the berlin declaration, which is striking: the european union needs to recover its foundations. he needs to redefine his foundation. this means that without a treaty that gives it a political dimension, that allows it to take decisions effectively, europe will not move forward. and i think that saying that we are together should mean that we are together to push europe forward.
the long-anticipated text of the berlin declaration came as a surprise to the nations of europe. perhaps not because of the content, which the press has called "a masterpiece of indefiniteness", but because of the lack of public debate. it is significant that only three persons - representatives of the institutions - signed the declaration, not representatives of all 27 member states of the union. in fact, this declaration does not commit to anything, nor does it remove differences of opinion on the role and functioning of the union. there is no agreement on a common foreign policy, no concept of a european defence policy. the strong opposition of some countries to the reference to the christian roots of europe calls into question the definition of common european values. however, given the many outstanding issues, we must not turn in the future from dialogue and consultation to blackmailing the countries that raise objections.
the berlin declaration was signed at a very important moment for the european union. the 27 countries involved summarised the results of an ambitious idea that was launched 50 years ago with the signing of the treaties of rome. the founding act of the future union was then signed by six countries in war-torn europe. today, half a century later, we are delighted to see the union living in peace. it has almost half a billion citizens. it covers most of the continent and means more to the world than ever before. the fruits of integration are impressive: a single market, a common currency for the 13 countries, free movement of people, goods and capital. the union is committed to environmental protection and sustainable development, and is an active and visible player on the international stage, bringing stability and prosperity to its neighbours. the berlin declaration is an important symbol for europe. yet, despite the apparent sense of success, there is a certain lack of achievement. we could have wished that on the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome, the union had its own constitution. we are facing new challenges: global economic competition, new challenges in the areas of social policy, environmental protection, energy and security. citizens want a more efficient and stronger union, based on transparent principles. we must remove the obstacles which still exist for citizens, especially from the new member states, to the free movement of persons and services. we must complete the enlargement of the schengen area and the euro. we should have a common energy policy. europe needs growth, jobs and better social protection. in this context, the declaration that the institutional basis of the european union must be agreed by 2009 is very important. this should serve to mobilise effectively all member states to bring about the necessary institutional reform. chancellor angela merkel deserves congratulations for her significant contribution to our common success. today the union has a female face. the union is a woman.
madam chairman, mr chairman of the commission! we, the citizens of europe from behind the former iron curtain, value freedom, including the free market, and our polish specialty, our regional product, one might say: solidarity. and we know what it costs to defend those values. for decades, we have dreamed of returning to the european family of free nations. we grew up listening to the forbidden radio broadcast from munich, which was proudly called "free europe". and to this europe, free and united, we are today faithful. as members of the european union, we have every right to shape it. it is not enough to say 'europe, europe', but we must also say 'europe, yes, but what europe?' europe must be a project that has the full confidence of all its members. there can be no forbidden subjects in the european debate. the treaty rejected by the french and dutch gives each country the right to re-examine and take up those aspects of it that are controversial. it cannot be that the president of the socialist group, mr schulz, puts the leaders of those member states in a corner every time they dare to have a different view of the institutional structure of the european union than his own or a different view from the political correctness which the left is trying to impose. the debate on the treaty proposed by the german presidency should be characterised by openness and a willingness to find compromise solutions, even on such difficult issues as the search for a new, fairer way of voting in the council of the european union. i also find that the berlin declaration does not mention the christian roots. i would like to end by quoting the belgian politician, paula-henri spaak, in whose building we are sitting today, who once said in 1957: 'i told you one day in strasbourg, when present times will have changed, that we will all have disappeared for many years and that we will not be able to tell the story of the human adventure we have lived, whatever our religious or philosophical convictions, but that the people of this time, of this century, will have lived together the immense adventure of christian civilization.'
thank you, madam president! in this report, the european parliament took a stand on the difficult problem of determining the future shape of kosovo. the province is at the heart of europe and europe should therefore play an active role in shaping its future. but he can't do what the report says without the legitimacy of the un security council. it's impossible to get legit without russia agreeing to it. for the russians, kosovo is a great bargaining chip with the west. they may want to use it to negotiate the next steps on iran's nuclear program. it should also be noted that the granting of independence to the province will set a precedent that the russians will invoke in talks about other regions such as abkhazia, transnistria and south ossetia. it is therefore necessary to emphasise that the situation in kosovo is unique and unique and that it cannot be used as a means of restoring russia's power.
madam president! today we are debating a very important issue for international relations, and the pretext for this discussion is the problem of kosovo. for the first time in many years, the international community is violating the territorial sovereignty of one of the countries of europe. the new entity is not proposed to be politically independent, but this new quasi-state organism is to have its own anthem, flag and mini-army. it is also to be placed under international control for an indefinite period. this novel design of international intervention in the internal affairs of an independent state sets a precedent. in the future, this could lead to attempts to manipulate the international community into the internal affairs of other countries with much smaller problems. the only sensible solution is to leave kosovo formally within the republic of serbia and to give it a very high degree of autonomy and to move quickly to integrate the region into the european union. after all, there will still be a very large serb minority in the republic of kosovo, which will destabilize the country.
madam president! the status of kosovo is a real test for the emerging foreign policy of the european union. firstly, the efforts of mr martti ahtisaari, the special envoy of the united nations secretary-general for the future status of kosovo, and his plan should be commended. secondly, the european parliament stresses that all arrangements for the future status of kosovo must be in accordance with the democratically expressed will of the people of kosovo, with respect for human rights and international law. thirdly, the kosovo issue must be seen in the wider context of the situation in the balkans. i would like to stress in particular, at a time when we are celebrating the 50th anniversary of the signing of the treaties of rome, the political responsibility of the european union to define the conditions and ensure that serbia is on the path to future membership of the union. the european union must play a historic role in contributing to the development of democracy and prosperity for all the peoples of the western balkans.
madam president! it is difficult to count on one hand the number of times the european parliament, other community institutions and the council of europe have called on the belarusian authorities to refrain from practices that violate fundamental civil liberties. the fact that the lukashenka regime is responding to all the calls of europe was seen last sunday, when the day of freedom became a pretext to remind the belarusians that they are in captivity. gas, sticks and water cannons - that's the tyrant's answer to the people's cry for bread and freedom. we cannot allow one man to mock the whole of europe and then exercise his authoritarian rule without any consequences right on our borders. as representatives of a united europe, we cannot stop working for a free belarus. in this context, it is necessary to consider whether the measures taken so far are sufficient, whether the demands made on the authorities of that country should not be supported even more decisively, or whether the democratic opposition should not be supported even better and more openly.
mr. chairman, please! the berlin declaration points to values common to all europeans, including human rights and democracy. this is undoubtedly the advantage of the declaration, which concisely presents the values common to the countries and citizens of the european union. finally, the document points to the principles that underpin european integration: equality and solidarity, and to the values that have always been respected in the union: diversity and sovereignty. the declaration is a response to the citizens of europe that only the union is an effective means of meeting the challenges of globalisation and competition. the document did not explicitly refer to the future of the enlargement of the union or to the future common foreign and security policy. in my view, the declaration is a document that is a good introduction to future work on the new framework of the european union. it's more formal than a thrilling opening, though. however, the member states must be willing to make the berlin declaration a new opening. the future of europe is in our hands. we have to remember that.
in recent weeks, the european press has been writing about the conflict between the polish authorities and environmental organizations defending the unique rospudy valley complex, a protected area under the natura 2000 programme. we already know today that the european commission has referred the matter of the bypass crossing the rospud river to the european court of justice. while i appreciate the previous efforts of the commissioner for the environment, stavros dimas, i am deeply concerned that no way has been found to resolve this impasse and reach a compromise with the polish government without unnecessarily antagonising the polish public. as a result, breaking eu law could expose poland, and specifically polish taxpayers, to multi-million euro fines, and the current halting of work without adopting an alternative route design will not solve the current transport problems of the inhabitants of this region. the ignorance of the law and the stubbornness of the authorities will most likely be paid for by the citizens.
despite the widespread interest in organic farming from consumers, producers and the media, the development of this agricultural sector is still too slow. what are the causes and what can be done to increase consumption and thus the production of organic food? in my view, the most important thing is to provide stable conditions for development and adequate support. stable conditions include, inter alia, appropriate provisions on the certification, labelling and control system, including controls on imports from third countries. in short, we need a good law. the distribution of organic products is too costly and therefore not in the interest of large retailers due to the small scale of the trade. however, it seems appropriate that this part of the organic food chain can be supported by external means and organic farmers should be organised. it is desirable to give more weight to the importance of organic farming in the educational process and in the promotion area.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you down. in the debate on the future of the european union's own resources, i would like to make a few comments. first, the current system of the union's own resources is opaque and, most importantly, unfair. it was further complicated by the so-called christmas presents at the european council in brussels in december 2005. secondly, it is a system that clearly shows the reluctance of individual member states to finance policies that do not benefit them. the most telling example of this attitude is, of course, the british rebate. thirdly, unfortunately, the proposed solution of creating a new system of own resources, and in particular the proposal for a new european tax, is unacceptable for at least two reasons: it would mean an increase in the tax burden on citizens and, secondly, it would also result in the removal of part of the tax power from the national states. fourthly, the report's findings on the inefficiency of cap spending are very worrying. the food security problem is one of the foundations of the european union's existence and, for that reason alone, agricultural spending should not be questioned. the proposal to renationalize the common agricultural policy is also unacceptable.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! football is no longer a sport and entertainment, but a tool to make big money, to gain power. it's not a new religion. to prevent football from becoming a tool of lawlessness and violence, we need a rapid and radical reform of the football environment, that is, of the business environment, including the media. i would like to thank the author of the report, ivo beleta, for tackling such an important subject and for highlighting most of the problems and their solutions. i think we need to take drastic action to stop the rich communities from monopolizing football. first, full disclosure and transparency of club revenues and expenditures and high penalties for their violation. second, limiting or limiting the increase in spending by the richest clubs in subsequent years. third, financial and other support for countries, organisations and clubs investing in youth and sports infrastructure. fourthly, an agreement with fifa to combat corruption and lawlessness in football. poland wants to be the host of the 2012 european football championship, where fair play and healthy fighting spirit will prevail.
mr. chairman, please! i should like to begin by congratulating both rapporteurs, but i should like to congratulate mr beleta in particular on the work he has done. the report covers all the key elements of european football, from the legal context, through governance, competition, the internal market and social issues, to tackling criminal behaviour such as racism or doping and tackling corruption in football competitions. the subject was easy on the surface, because football is the sport that ignites the strongest emotions. the number of amendments the rapporteur has had to deal with shows that our house is not free of them. one of them has proved to be particularly important, since it concerns the management of the sale of television broadcasting rights for football matches. in the course of earlier discussions, i advocated a collective system which guarantees a fair redistribution of the revenue derived from this title and thus better safeguards the competitive balance necessary for sporting competition. i now support the oral amendment proposed by the rapporteur. as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i would also like to express my appreciation for the inclusion in this report of the employment issues relating to the contracts of players with clubs, the legal regulation of the situation of football agents and their transactions, and the education and training of young footballers, including the guarantee of the best of them a place in the club team. i believe that football can be a foundation for development and self-fulfilment and that is why i am pleased to see these reports, which speak of the need to support clubs that create conditions for young people to train and learn. finally, i would also like to point out that sport, including football, has become the first area of genuine free movement of workers throughout the european union, and i hope that other segments of the eu labour market will soon be involved.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to pay tribute to mrs marthe vincenzi and mr gilles savary for their reports. these are two regulations from the package presented by the commission - and here i thank the commission for responding so fully to parliament's expectations. i wanted to focus on the liability issues. first, i welcome the introduction of ceilings which, in my view, ensure liability at levels high enough to ensure that in most cases the injured party can obtain appropriate compensation. i wouldn't be afraid of the accusation that these ceilings are too high, because the ideal situation is when we don't have to pay compensation at all. i also welcome the mandatory civil liability guarantee. that it will be for shipowners to apply to the authorities of the member states for a certificate confirming the existence of guarantees in respect of any damage caused to third parties. it is good that this certificate will be issued by the member state. it's just a way to test the reliability and the soundness of the companies. i also welcome the obligation to submit such certificates. i think it's a good thing that we have an expanded concept of an unforgivable mistake that allows for the removal of responsibility for wrongdoing. it is therefore suggested that this interpretation of the concept of an unforgivable error be extended, taking account of the professionalism of course.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think the timing of this meeting is indicative of the attitude towards the new member states. it's after ten twelve. we are talking about the very important issue of the inclusion of the new member states in the common agricultural policy, the only common policy of the european union. i would like to congratulate mr csaba tabajdi, in particular, on his initiative in preparing a report assessing the effects of the integration of the new member states into the common agricultural policy and for the intensive work he has carried out over several months on this subject, which is of such importance to us as new member states. experience from the early years of eu membership has shown that integration has brought many positive aspects, including increased social change in rural areas, improved food quality and safety, animal welfare and increased exports. however, we must remember that the agriculture of the new member states, compared with that of the old 15, operated under very different conditions in the years before accession to the union - without direct subsidies and without any instruments to guarantee the stability of production. the decision to grant lower direct payment rates compared to farmers in the old european union and the insufficient production quotas adversely affecting the competitiveness of farmers in the new member states, rather than in the old ones, are all the more unfair and unjustified. it is therefore important that the evaluation of the current state of the european agricultural model and the discussion on its future, planned for 2008-09, focus on trying to better adapt it to the realities and social expectations of these countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr tabajdi's report shows the effects of enlargement in an optimistic way. i agree that there are significant positive effects of enlargement for agriculture in the new member states, and also for the old ones, but there is also a slightly less optimistic side. the union we are in is not the same union we entered. we have entered the union, which is a kind of club for farmers, and we are in a union which is gradually abolishing its agriculture. all the so-called reforms of agricultural markets for sugar, fruit and vegetables, wine or tobacco have one common goal - that farmers produce less, or preferably nothing at all. less agricultural production, less hassle for the bureaucracy. we entered the union with the hope that together with the old member states we would develop our agriculture, and we are in a union where together with the old member states we are beginning to wind down agriculture. we are participating in a short-sighted policy that is compromising europe's food security. this policy must be changed, because europe will become hungry, and a hungry europe will not be able to integrate further.
mr. chairman, please! it is now the third year since the great enlargement of the union with ten new countries, countries with a very diverse agriculture that requires a lot of restructuring. the union did not offer good conditions for integration in the field of agriculture for the new member states. the production quotas are too low and the direct payments started at 25% of the old 15. the changes to the common agricultural policy that are detrimental to the member states were introduced in june 2003 in luxembourg at a meeting of the agriculture ministers of the old 15, when we did not yet have a vote. all this has the effect of making the restructuring of agriculture in the new countries too slow, although positive developments are evident, which should also be emphasised. the report presented is too optimistic, too little about the problems and difficulties and too much about the successes. it requires further work in the context of the next review of the common agricultural policy.
mr. chairman, please! the new member states have suffered high social and economic costs in adapting to the rules of the common agricultural policy. these costs were the result of historical circumstances, but also of direct payments which were much lower than in the old member states and of the commission's and the council's clear reluctance to provide assistance to the new member states. this concerns, among others, soft fruit, blockades of polish exports by russia, ukraine, imports of honey from third countries. and from that experience, questions arise. is there really a common agricultural policy? if so, why are the new member states not getting the help they deserve, not only in external markets but also in the european union market? why is it that the eu is allowing more genetically modified products to enter the eu market, crowding out the healthy, organic products of the new eu member states? finally, what will happen to the family farms which are the basis of the agricultural system in many regions of the european union, which are already on the verge of bankruptcy?
, in writing. the union undertook the biggest and most courageous enlargement in its history in 2004. therefore, a preliminary assessment of this fact is very important. the question is whether we're going to present the evaluation of this event in a way that's as true as possible or distorted. this is important for the future of agriculture in the eu. while i appreciate the enormous work of the rapporteur, i cannot agree with the wording of all the compromise amendments. you can't argue with numbers. and these clearly indicate that the new member states (npcs) have been harmed! this is according to official eu figures. i quote the total expenditure on agriculture and rural development per hectare of agricultural land in 2007 and 2013. the eu-15 is the largest producer of maize in the world, with a market share of around 10% in the eu-27. the commission has also published a report on the implementation of the cap. the commission dg for agriculture, october 2004. poorer countries have received, receive and will receive less financial support from the common budget to bring their level of economic development closer to that of the richer eu countries! the current implementation of the cap is contrary to its objectives and principles. in the light of the above general assessment, i would urge you to vote in good conscience and with a sense of responsibility for the future of european agriculture.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as you can see, 2007 can be a tense year for the union's foreign policy. but the reason is not to implement the missile shield project. the problem is the danger of some member states adopting the russian perspective on this issue. russia is deliberately using false arguments. it is clear that the ten intercept stations in poland are not a threat to russian defense. contrary to suggestions, consultations with russia on this matter have been and are ongoing. by making these false arguments, russia is hoping to create divisions within the european union. paradoxically, the placement of the shield elements in europe can only accelerate the implementation of similar nato plans in this matter. it would be unintended, but what a beneficial effect. poland will be as open to such initiatives as it is today. that's why i'm very surprised that the german spd - chancellor schröder's party - is so eager to echo president putin's arguments on this issue. it would be more natural if the social democrats listened to the voices of their eu partners in denmark, the czech republic, the united kingdom and poland.
mr. chairman, please! the question of the missile shield is currently at the stage of the proposal made by the united states to some members of the north atlantic alliance. it is being thoroughly analysed. it should be stressed, however, that the decision on this matter is the sole responsibility of the states and governments concerned. notabene spoke about it today mr solana. the definitive rejection of the constitutional treaty by france and the netherlands has put an end to plans to introduce a common foreign and security policy for the union. it would be wrong for some member states to ignore this fact and, using the union emblem, to put pressure on the sovereign decisions of the governments of the countries covered by this proposal. i would also caution against the resurgence of anti-american sentiment in europe, as was the case recently with the curious report on cia flights.
mr president, i met the high representative for the first time when he was foreign minister of spain, and then when he was representing the presidency. whatever the fate of the constitutional treaty, mr solana, you are our foreign minister. thank you for your extensive presentation and in-depth analysis. we have to put all our efforts into making the eu’s genuine common foreign and security policy commensurate with the eu’s ambitions and importance as a global player, and its relevance from the point of view of the union’s values as proclaimed in the berlin declaration for the 50th anniversary. in this context, developing and consolidating democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms should underpin our foreign policy. it should be a value-based foreign policy if it is to be truly european. our parliamentary diplomacy contributes to that dimension. our debates in parliament should aim at possible consensus, rather than creating additional divisions, as has been shown in this debate. we should not merely pronounce our views on the issue; we have to act jointly and promptly when necessary. at this particular time our thoughts should go to belarus. we are bound to react to what happened last weekend: when we were celebrating the 50th anniversary of european integration, belarusian democrats were being beaten and jailed on our doorstep. the common foreign and security policy today is a multifaceted issue. it covers not only classical foreign and security aspects, including the question of nuclear arms, but also a very large range of non-conventional threats to democracy, peace and security on such topics as terrorism, poverty, energy security, climate change and so forth. but broadly, and without referring to all the points which you raised, high representative – which would be impossible in the time permitted – we share and support the line which you have taken on all the burning issues of foreign policy around us in the world. the message that i would like to address to the council and to you personally is the following one: parliament wants to assert an influential role in cfsp; it is in the interests of the union, not only parliament. we do not seek new powers. rather, we would like to build upon our past experiences and enhance our influence in the field of foreign policy in agreement and cooperation with you and the commission by adding more legitimacy to it and by bringing it closer to european citizens, making it more understandable and more widely and democratically supported and based. we want to do that in cooperation with the european institutions – the council and commission. as you know, we are developing close contacts with the council with your support and with that of the commission. we would like to use this opportunity to assure both our partners that smooth and effective relations are very important for us and that we should work together, build synergies, complement each other and help in this supremely important, difficult and most delicate area of the union’s policies. very briefly, on anti-missile defence, as you said, we do not have the authority to take decisions on defence, but we have do have the authority to discuss defence. for that reason, the committee on foreign affairs is proposing a debate on amd and crisis management on 7 may, in your presence, with the chairs of all the foreign and defence committees of the national parliaments, and possibly mr de hoop scheffer. on 28 june, the committee on foreign affairs and the security and defence subcommittee will be holding another meeting on the amd system, this time with general obering from the us.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to speak today about the conditions for the effectiveness of the cfsp, but the demagogic speeches of mr schulz and mr cohn-bendit force me to reply and to correct. first, a few years ago, the original national missile defense project was turned into missile defense by the americans. the idea was to cover not only the united states but also the european union and nato member states with a shield (a protective umbrella). this was done at the explicit request of the countries of western europe, including germany. so why the wave of criticism now? secondly, we europeans have been building our own european theater ballistic missile defence for several years now. in case of doubt, i refer you to the declaration from the last nato summit in riga. it is to be ready by 2010 and somehow neither mr schulz nor mr cohn-bendit are objecting to this. third, russia's objections to the shield are just another expression of russia's criticism of various u.s. strategic initiatives. think of the wave of criticism of the sdi under president reagan, or the wave of criticism of the americans for withdrawing from the abm treaty. i'm a big supporter of talking to russia about the shield, but please, no hysteria. fourthly, i am also in favour of a debate in the european parliament on the shield, although we must remember that the decision will be taken by the sovereign authorities of the european countries. i would ask the left and the greens not to use false arguments in this debate and not to mislead our public. the consequences of such an attitude can be tragic. it could deepen divisions in the european union and trigger a wave of anti-american sentiment, as in 2002 and 2003.
mr. chairman, please! the missile shield threatens to create a new iron curtain and in this context does not guarantee international security and peace, and may even lead to an escalation of already existing conflicts worldwide. let's not start another arms race! the missile shield is primarily for the united states. if anyone asks me if we should be defending peace, defending the united states against, say, terrorists, i'll say yes. the missile shield's design raises many questions. we cannot create new dividing lines in europe and we must seek a peaceful compromise with russia, not conflict. i have also repeatedly approached the polish government with the proposal to hold a public debate in poland and in europe, but the current right-wing government in poland, as for example on the constitutional treaty, remains on anti-european and unconstructive positions. although the european union is not a defence alliance, it should be made public whether the issue of the missile shield should not be subject to joint political decisions by the union and, of course, nato.
mr. chairman, please! the first stage of work on the future of own resources was completed by today's vote. in my opinion, this is a very early stage of the work and although i do not share many of the views expressed there, i voted in favour of it, considering that in further work many things could be changed. the future own resources system should be transparent and fair. the conclusions to be drawn from the review of the union budget that we will carry out in 2008-2009 and the priorities that we will adopt for the union for the years after 2013 should be used. finally, we must respect the union's fundamental principle of cohesion, which is to promote the development of the least developed regions. the financing system for food security, energy and environmental issues requires particular work.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr alain lamassour on the future of the european union's own resources. this is an important element in the preparation of a comprehensive review covering all aspects of eu funding and expenditure, as the current own resources system is fundamentally flawed. it is a system with four different sources of resources and a number of rebate mechanisms. it should also be noted that nearly 70% of the european union's revenue does not come from its own resources, but is transferred directly from national budgets. moreover, the current budget deficits, particularly in the larger member states, do not allow the european union to have sufficient resources to implement all the strategies related to its policies. the european union needs an efficient and transparent funding system. the reform of the community's revenue should aim at creating genuine own resources for the european union. they should be based on a tax already levied in the member states, which would feed into the union budget. in addition, i believe that the possibility of introducing a genuine union tax should be considered.
mr. chairman, please! in view of the disastrous situation of polish producers of soft fruit, i.e. strawberries, black currants, cherries, asparagus and apples, i am putting in the hands of the president of the european parliament the text of the protest and the demands, together with the signatures of several thousand signatories. the protest is an expression of opposition to the current situation on the soft fruit market and the cry of thousands of farmers who blame the failures of the common agricultural policy for their tragedy. the feeling of loneliness, injustice and betrayal on the part of the union is the reason for the loud cry for help. the european parliament is the place where this voice should be heard and where it should be given the desired response. i therefore appeal to the president, but also to the whole house, to support the solutions proposed by the polish farmers.
mr. chairman, please! one of the polish columnists proposed to amend the nature protection program natura 2000 by including the life of unborn children, which would then - like plants, worms or amphibians - be protected, which would ensure the effectiveness of protecting their life before and after birth. the fact that the polish state has been punished by the strasbourg court of justice for not killing a child shows the deep moral crisis in which the european union finds itself, and the declaration of the refusal to kill a child as illegal may be the first step towards the recognition of abortion as a human right. i would like to remind you of the words of pope john paul ii, who warned that a democracy without values sooner or later turns into an open or disguised totalitarianism. what is the name of a system in which a category of people who have been born claim the right to life, but that right is taken away from those who have not yet been born or who are offered euthanasia as useless?
mr. chairman, please! it is a good practice to invite the world's leading figures to visit the european parliament. i would like to ask you, mr president, and i think my voice will not be an isolated one, to invite the holy father, benedict xvi, to the european parliament. he was recently invited to the united nations. benedict xvi is both head of the catholic church and head of the vatican state. his message to europe and the world is not just religious, but it touches on the most important issues of our time. the invitation would not only be a sign of our hospitality but would also give us a better insight into the profound humanism and nobility of the man in white who, although he has no division at his disposal, is concerned about the future of europe, a europe that is not ashamed of its christian roots.
mr. chairman, please! i thank you for your very liberal approach to members who wish to speak, even though you are not from the liberal group. the meeting between commissioner kyprianou and the russian foreign minister in cyprus yesterday was largely devoted to the embargo on polish meat exports to the russian federation. everyone knows it's political, not polish meat. it's about russia's strategy towards our union. russia's strategy, which has its own interests to play with the union and treats this matter as a bargaining chip for further negotiations on other issues altogether. it's a consistent, historically known russian tactic. when russians talk about meat, they think about something else. i believe that the european union will show solidarity in this and other matters and that it will continue to intervene not only on behalf of the community as a whole but also on behalf of individual members of the union who have trade problems with moscow.
mr. chairman, please! there is a debate in parliament, and particularly in the imco committee, about health services. these services were excluded from the scope of the services directive because of their specific nature. the committee will be discussing this evening whether it is appropriate to support the proposal to draft a directive on this matter. i am absolutely against this for a number of reasons, not least because healthcare is a national responsibility and the european union has no mandate to regulate it. there is therefore no treaty basis on which to base a request for a proposal for a directive. instead of proposing further legislation, we should focus on solutions that already exist in the market, such as improving cooperation and the flow of information between countries, improving patient mobility, or, ultimately, the use of infringement procedures. i believe that this is a much better and, above all, more effective solution than proposing another directive.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the initiative of the directive is certainly right and justified. however, there are some concerns. the creation of payment institutions raises the question of whether they will operate on the principle of profit maximization or the public good. and those are mutually exclusive approaches. the question therefore arises whether there will be a real increase in competition between institutions or whether there will be a concentration and indeed an oligopolisation of the payments market after a short period of time. if so, it is essential that this solution be introduced for the countries of the euro area. the newly admitted countries will then have time to see whether or not the system is beneficial. in addition, they will be able to see what the costs of implementing this system are, as they may be relatively high due to software and control, which cannot be estimated at this stage.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. despite the great efforts of the rapporteur, mr mikolášik, our position on advanced therapies may be seriously flawed. if we don't support the ethics package, it will not be enough to guarantee countries that don't want to destroy human life for therapeutic purposes. it may not guarantee human dignity, which is threatened today by the commercialization of the human body, the interference with the human genetic line and the possibility of creating animal-human hybrids. europe is rightly setting the standard for human rights in the world, even though it may seem hopeless at times. the question is, why do we take such a passive approach to biotechnology and advanced therapies? we're in for a double surrender. without a clear ban on the commercialization of the human body, we risk capitulating to the market that will dominate the trade in cells. without a ban on interference with the genetic line, we risk capitulating to an anti-humanitarian, cruel and eugenic philosophy. this philosophy will always put the quality of life above its intrinsic value and dignity. it is a shame that it is asia that is setting the standards for the european union today. without a package of ethical changes, you can't support this legislation.
(missing text) and advances in biotechnology and biomedicine are leading to the development of therapies described as advanced, including gene therapy, somatic cell therapy and genetic engineering, which should aim at preventing and improving human health. meanwhile, technology is being used to experimentally create human-animal hybrids, chimeras, and to perform experiments that alter the human genetic line or clone, which not only violate ethical principles but are medically problematic, and can lead to side effects and damage to health and the commercialization of the human body. the situation is made worse by the intense competition between medical and pharmaceutical companies, which has not been the first reason for the production of drugs or the use of d-therapy with dramatic side effects. the rejection of amendments prohibiting immoral experiments is evidence of the irresponsibility of people who, by agreeing to the violation of human dignity, also endanger the health and even the lives of the people they are supposed to help. at the same time, solutions at the european level can be a form of coercion to accept those who do not agree to violate moral principles. this constitutes, in addition to a distortion of values, an obstacle to scientific research which is consistent with the principles of respect for human dignity.
mr. chairman, please! the essence of the project under discussion is the introduction of a centralised procedure for the marketing authorisation of advanced therapy products by the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. the european commission also wants to provide financial support for companies producing such preparations. these claims are valid, and would be valid, if it were not for the fact that advanced therapy products include those that are manufactured using controversial technologies. these include products derived from human embryos, products derived from human-animal hybrids or chimeras, and pharmaceuticals that alter the human germ line. in the european union, some countries, such as germany, do not allow ethically produced products to enter their markets. the commission proposal contains an exception which would allow such countries to opt out of the rules of the common market for controversial products. but now it is being said that in both cases - both the draft now under discussion and the 2001 directive - we are dealing with a legal error. the supporters of this view argue that, under article 95 of the treaty, which aims at full market harmonisation, designating it as the legal basis for the proposal for a regulation on advanced therapy products means creating a free european market for these products. in this situation, the european parliament was faced with the choice of either bowing to the european commission's proposal or remaining cautious and not allowing controversial experiments. members of the parliament's legal affairs committee opposed the draft inclusion of unethical products in the regulation, arguing that despite the powers of the member states and despite rapid progress in some areas, no compromise on human rights could be allowed. they agreed that the principle of prohibiting the commercial exploitation of the human body should be respected and that the creation of human-animal hybrids or chimeras violates the principle of human integrity and human dignity.
the president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. they will vote on the regulation on medicines for novel therapies on wednesday. this regulation has been put forward since the beginning of 2006, first by the austrian presidency of the council and then by our finnish colleagues, and we have done everything in our power since the beginning of the year to reach an agreement quickly. the regulation aims to ensure safety for all patients who need medicines in a highly innovative and extremely important area of medicines manufacturing by means of uniform quality standards in europe. quality products for all in europe: it is therefore right to say that today life, the improvement of living conditions and the prospect of new life are indeed on the agenda. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biotechnology in the manufacturing of foodstuffs. in the last few weeks, decisive progress has been made in the negotiations on the regulation in the council working party and also with a view to reaching agreement with the european parliament. the negotiations, taking into account a large number of very good amendments from the committee responsible, were and are the basis for a good compromise and a rapid agreement between parliament and the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rapporteur has tabled a package of amendments, and a package of amendments has also been drawn up by the spe, alde and gue groups. both packages take up the debate on the envi grant and the proposals developed therein to the greatest extent possible. the two packages are close in this respect, although it is clear that the package of shadow rapporteurs from the above-mentioned council groups is capable of reaching agreement. in the face of all the controversy, i think it is essential to stress that the first and foremost concern with these new types of therapeutic products is quality and safety. it is quite clear that ethical considerations play a role in this context. but there is already, since the adoption of the directive on cells and tissues, an agreement that ethics in europe is a matter of subsidiarity and must therefore be regulated by the member states. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the german presidency would ask you to take this into account in the vote. the subsidiarity approach ensures that national legislation - for example, on stem cells, mrs breyer - is not affected by the regulation. this is not only our view, but it has also been clearly stated by the legal affairs committee of the parliament. for example, in my country, the legislation on stem cells is not touched. on the other hand, the regulation would give everyone else the greatest possible security. one or other of you has quite rightly made comments on the ethical framework. there were warnings of what might happen. i share these concerns and i am quite sure that the member states will take them into account anyway. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the german presidency, given the importance of the document to be decided on - the future of many patients in our europe is at stake - has a great interest in making this legislative process a success as quickly as possible. we have a great opportunity in this important area to show our citizens that we are capable of creating european added value in a very consistent and targeted way. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of national quotas for the production of milk and milk products. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. perhaps you can postpone them in view of the important higher purpose of getting this regulation quickly. we, the citizens of europe and the patients, would be extremely grateful to you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if in a community of 27 countries there is no consensus on an ethical issue - and this is the case here - then there is only one way for civilized people to deal with it: tolerance and respect. then we must tolerate and respect each other's opinions. we should also take our conscience seriously. but we cannot make it the standard by which others measure their actions. my conscience, for example, tells me that i cannot accept that this new field of medicine should not be left in a legal grey area but should be left in a state where anything is possible, without any legal or qualitative limitations. that is why my conscience tells me that we need this regulation. and my conscience also tells me that i couldn't be responsible for telling a terminally ill person, "here's a drug that could help you, but there were some ideological concerns why we shouldn't use this drug". my conscience tells me i have no right to do this. and so i say to you, the only way we can deal with this issue is to do it the way it's proposed here, which is to allow those who have ethical concerns to act accordingly, and those who don't, within the limits of what the statute will allow - because it doesn't allow everything - by god - to do what they want to do. let me address some of the arguments that have been raised. on the question of the non-commercialization of the human body, yes, it is essential, and you will not find anyone who agrees more than i do. this principle is already firmly anchored in the directive on human tissues and cells. the european principles of donor and recipient anonymity and donor altruism must be respected. that is clearly true in this context too, and there can be no doubt about it! it has been said that the commission proposal is not clear, it is not watertight, so to speak, when it comes to the question of national bans and their continuance. the president's representative has already given the necessary answer. i can only confirm that. the necessary changes to take account of the concerns of the european parliament's legal service are contained in the compromise package. i have already said that the commission supports this compromise package, and i want to repeat what state secretary schröder said: the legal service of the european parliament has explicitly stated that these amendments solve the problem and has explicitly endorsed this. i would like to make it clear that it is not a correct interpretation of the treaty to say that article 95 - that is, the internal market article - would not guarantee that no products would be authorised which a member state does not want to have authorised. the internal market rules are quite clear on this point. each member state shall at any time have the right to refuse to allow a specific product to be placed on its market if it invokes ethical or public morality grounds. there is no doubt about it: we have a secure jurisprudence, a secure practice and also a secure legal basis in the eu treaty. you really have nothing to worry about at this point! my final point: it has been said that the technical package is inadequate. i must say that the council and the commission have now been extremely willing to compromise in order to allow an early conclusion. we have accepted the vast majority of parliament's amendments - this is particularly true in the area of small and mediumsized enterprises - for example by means of fee reductions, exemptions from central authorization. all of this is included. what we have here in the bill goes beyond what we have already done. we already have a commission regulation of our own, which allows small and mediumsized enterprises to benefit from up to 90% reduction in costs in the authorization procedure. i believe that everything possible has been done here too. so i ask you once again to consider whether it is not time to bring this debate to a happy ending: a happy ending for those who are doing research in this field because they want to help people, and a happy ending for those who are in dire need of these medicines. (applause from the centre)
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr zingaretti on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights on the amended proposal for a european parliament and council directive on criminal law measures aimed at ensuring the enforcement of intellectual property rights (com ((2006) 0168 c6-0233/2005 2005/0127 cod)) (a6-0073/2007).
mr. chairman, please! the directive on criminal measures for the enforcement of intellectual property rights represents a reversal of the commission's approach to criminal law. the proposed document reflects the interpretation of the european court of justice judgment of 12 september 2005 adopted by the european commission, which allows for the application of criminal sanctions at community level where they are necessary for the effective implementation of union law. in view of the growing problem of intellectual property infringement worldwide, the approach proposed by the commission seems not only appropriate but also necessary. the european union's gdp is shrinking by about €8 billion a year because of counterfeiting. individual companies lose between 45 and 65 billion euros every year because of this. the scale of the problem is so great that it is estimated that about 40 percent of the world's computer software is derived from illegal sources, as are 36 percent of the world's cds and music cassettes. in view of the above, it is welcome that in the case of serious crimes committed within criminal organisations, the maximum penalty can be up to eur 300 000 and/or 4 years of imprisonment. it should also be noted that, according to parliament's proposal, criminal measures will only be applied to entities and persons who commit intentional infringements for commercial purposes. it is very important to note that the directive does not cover infringements of the above property rights by private users who are not motivated by a desire to make a profit. moreover, it seems justified to exclude the proposed patent law directive from its scope, which will avoid any prejudice as to the content of future legislation on this matter and will limit the scope of the directive in question to intellectual property rights only. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr zingaretti, on a very well-drafted document.
mr. chairman, please! contrary to what some of my colleagues in this chamber are saying, the proposal for a directive was made in response to the growing practice of intellectual property theft. we are well aware that current eu law does not provide for a community policy to punish piracy and counterfeiting. the commission rightly notes that the differences between the systems used by the member states are too great. this obviously makes it difficult to protect intellectual property effectively, and this in turn has a direct negative impact on the value of innovation investments. i am convinced that it is essential to combat this practice at community level. and when we realize that counterfeit products, such as drugs and toys, can be dangerous to our health and lives, the problem becomes even more serious. it is obvious that to counterfeit any product requires additional packaging, graphic designers, distributors, etc., so one person cannot do it. this is the work of more or less organised criminal groups, and it is these groups that the directive is intended to target in particular. the solutions proposed in the draft directive should be considered as favourable. infringement of intellectual property rights is a crime and must be punished. but there is a debate about the limits of responsibility, and more importantly, who is responsible. those who produce and market counterfeit goods should be held absolutely accountable. it would be unacceptable to punish those who have acquired or used goods or services without knowing their illegal origin. the commission proposal does not define intentional conduct clearly enough in the context of intellectual property infringements and this needs to be corrected. in conclusion, the adoption of the text of the directive is a necessary step, and it is only to be regretted that we cannot afford another one today. it is possible to identify groups of crimes that are particularly difficult to combat effectively in a globalised world, based on dozens of different legal systems. i believe that greater harmonisation of criminal law in the european union would greatly improve this efficiency, and the course of today's debate confirms this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of course, we need to think about the impact of the further enlargement process on the effectiveness of cohesion policy, but it would be worth thinking in constructive rather than destructive terms. on the other hand, i have the unfortunate impression that mr pieper's report is above all an expression of dissatisfaction and frustration with recent enlargements and, irrespective of political decisions, it seeks to impose financial blocks against possible further enlargements of the european union, and in particular against turkey. turkey is particularly badly treated here. the report treats future enlargements almost exclusively as an economic burden, without any positive aspects. it does not answer the question of how best to finance cohesion policy in the future. i think it's a very controversial piece. during the work of the regional development committee, we tried to change its negative, destructive tone, but unfortunately we did not succeed completely. the alde group is now proposing another package of fundamental amendments. if, however, they fail to pass, we shall be forced to vote against the whole report. we believe that the policy of the european union as a whole cannot be changed without consulting the committee on foreign affairs, which is responsible for the enlargement process.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's an old polish proverb that says if you want to hit a dog, you can always find a stick. if the european elites, including the european parliament, are against the enlargement of the union to include more countries, they will always find some pretext to prevent it. the most elegant, 'hands-on' way of delaying the accession of the balkan countries, for example, is to make the enlargement of the eu dependent on, first, institutional reform of the union - a reform that we do not know when it will take place, if it will take place and in what form - and, secondly, as this report specifically states, on changes in the rules for financing new members of the union. the argument that turkey will receive colossal subsidies as a member of the union is so manipulative that countries such as croatia, montenegro, macedonia, serbia together with kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina and albania should be added to our european family before ankara, which is natural. and the last sentence: let's not treat our obsessions at the expense of these countries.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that enlargement and cohesion policy are among the most valuable instruments of european union influence, provided they are used rationally. the european council decision of june 2006 states that the european union should be able to maintain the momentum of european integration when it welcomes new members. today's report makes it clear that the union is not ready for turkey to join, also for budgetary reasons. i am not going to discuss today the question of civilization shock or the lack of will on the part of the citizens of the european union. turkey's accession would reduce the union's gdp per capita by 10.5%. the union does not have such absorption capacity. from an economic point of view, it would be easier for us to take the whole of the western balkans, ukraine and belarus together than turkey.
mr. chairman, please! the report we are discussing today is important because it is the first proposal for a european parliament opinion on cohesion policy after 2013. as you can see from the debate, everyone finds something different in this report. some of them are about cohesion policy, others only about enlargement and therefore about the european union's foreign policy. this report raises new questions about what this future policy should look like. the old questions of renationalisation of policy are returning, as well as the question of whether cohesion policy should be reserved for the least developed countries or, as it is today, also be a mechanism to promote growth and job creation - in this sense it should also be available to the more active. the first option, for the poorest, raises again the question of the criteria for the weakest regions and, of course, leads to future debates on the financial perspective and whether we first calculate the necessary resources on the basis of the policy assumptions and the needs arising from the criteria used, or whether we first define the available resources and then adjust the criteria and the distribution methods accordingly. the years 2007 to 2013 will probably prove that it was right to extend the scope of cohesion policy to include actions for the lisbon strategy, but today it would be difficult to assess and plan changes to this policy. it is clear that policy decisions on future enlargements must take account of the conduct of cohesion policy after these enlargements. the new enlargements will change cohesion policy, its scope and financial and legal instruments. enlargement does not threaten this policy, enlargement not only costs but brings certain benefits to the existing members. the effectiveness of cohesion policy should be an incentive to pursue a consistent integration policy through further enlargement, well prepared in terms of financial and legal instruments.
mr. chairman, please! further enlargement of the european union is inevitable. the impact of successive enlargements of the union on the effectiveness of the current cohesion policy is an important issue discussed in the european forum. undoubtedly, taking steps to welcome new members into the european community is important for deepening integration on the european continent. however, given the demands of the lisbon agenda and the fact that there are still wide differences in the levels of economic development and, therefore, in living conditions among the current member states of the european union, we must be particularly careful about the question of further enlargements. the union budget is not a bottomless pit. it has some limitations. we all know what the amounts are for regional policy until 2013. the priority should be to maintain the processes and actions taken to achieve cohesion and a level playing field in the european union, and the community regions should not lose their statistical eligibility for aid until their competitiveness and the level of structural change are satisfactory. an attractive package of preaccession assistance should be offered to countries aspiring to join the european union, which will effectively stimulate their growth and economic development and structural change, even before they become full beneficiaries of cohesion policy.
mr. chairman, please! the report makes proposals for rationalising regional development spending, assessing the possible consequences of the accession of turkey, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the western balkan countries to the european union. further enlargements of the european union, according to analyses carried out, could increase the area of the european union by 35% and the population by 27%, on the one hand, and the community's gdp by only 4%, which would mean a de facto decrease of 18% in gdp per capita, on the other. so there are pros and cons. but the union should develop. following the review of the financial framework at the turn of 2008 and 2009, a decision should be taken to initiate the institutional, financial and political reform of the union. the evaluation of the results of the current cohesion policy will help to determine when we can afford further enlargements. it is worth remembering, however, that all the previous ones have always added value to the union. i am convinced that this will continue in the future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the annual budgetary policy strategy for 2008, i would like to draw attention to three points. first, the author of the report is right to suggest that the european commission should prepare a results-oriented budget for 2008, thus ensuring the best use of limited financial resources. secondly, the author rightly points out that the growth of decentralised agencies and the creation of new ones will certainly reduce the margins available under the headings of the multiannual financial framework and may even lead to a reduction in operational funds under the programme-specific appropriations. this may result in a deterioration of budgetary flexibility and a restriction on the implementation of specific operational programmes. thirdly, the author of this report seems to be placing too high hopes in the announced review of budgetary expenditure for 2008 and 2009. the suggestion that the review will allow the effectiveness of cap spending to be called into question is absolutely unacceptable. the common agricultural policy ensures food security for the individual countries of the european union and the community as a whole, and thus the most important security for every person. it will be difficult to question the cost of this, since there is no price for providing such security.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good, in-depth start to our annual procedure. i agree with the chairman of the committee on budgets, especially on the strategic approach. one thing is the annual budget procedure, which we are starting now for 2008, but at the same time we can also take more strategic approaches, for example looking at how to improve the annual budget procedure in general as well as relations between both institutions, because there are things which deserve improvement. we need to make it faster and less bureaucratic, and we need to be more realistic as regards time constraints and the number of papers we produce. between the lines of today’s discussions on the aps, as people involved in the budget we more or less have the same opinion, but we cannot rely solely on ourselves – things also depend on the environments in which we work together. so we can improve, and i think we will achieve a great deal of mutual understanding, as we have in recent years. i hope we obtain the best possible outcome for our 2008 budgetary procedures, but we can also try to attain some more strategy goals together.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr friedricha-wilhelma graefe zu baringdorf on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the proposal for a council regulation opening tariff quotas for the import of raw cane sugar into bulgaria and romania for supply to sugar refineries in the marketing years 2006/2007, 2007/2008 and 2008/2009 (com ((2006) 0798 - c6-0003/2007 - 2006/0261 (cns)) (a6-0072/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i can be fairly brief. it was an interesting discussion on a very technical issue, and the rapporteur managed to mention a few other issues as well. regarding this whole discussion on parliament's codecision on agricultural issues, we all know that this was a part of the treaty rejected by two member states. the rapporteur is aware that i have always been in favour of making the agricultural sector subject to codecision. it is unfair to say that the commission is not listening to parliament. i should like to use the sugar reform as an example. we had very good and very close cooperation on that, and, as far as i can remember, as i am sure the rapporteur remembers, the restructuring fund was parliament’s idea and it was included in the final reform. therefore, even if we are not in codecision we are in cooperation, which, at this stage, seems to be a very good solution. i shall not go into detail about the sugar reform. we know that there have been certain deficiencies. next month i shall present to the council a report that i am sure will remedy the problems we have seen up to now, so that we can achieve our aim of reducing internal sugar production by between 5 and 6 million tonnes a year before the end of the restructuring period.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr janusz wojciechowski on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1868/94 establishing a quota system for the production of potato starch (com ((2006) 0827 - c6-0046/2007 - 2006/0268 (cns)) (a6-0137/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr wojciechowski, and members of the committee on agriculture and rural development for the work that has been carried out on this report. i shall start by placing this proposal in its context. since the potato starch production quotas were introduced back in 1995, we have been trying to define a strategy that could secure, enhance and promote the development of this important sector. however, over the last decade the european union’s agricultural policies have changed dramatically, becoming more market-oriented with the decoupling of most aid payments, and reforms of the market organisations in almost all sectors. in spite of the existence of quotas, potato starch production exceeds demand on the european market with the result that we have to export about 40% of our production into the world market, usually with the benefit of export refunds. concerning the proposals that we are discussing today, it is of vital importance to preserve the stability of this very fragile sector while at the same time taking the fundamental changes due to the reform of the common agricultural policy into account. the main objectives of the proposals are firstly to roll over the quotas for another two years, which will allow us to review the potato starch system in the framework of the health check. an extension of four years, as you propose in your report, would not allow us to take the opportunity to go into details with this important sector in the health check, and therefore you will understand that we cannot accept this amendment. the second main objective is to roll over the existing quotas, which have actually provided a relatively stable market for potato starch in the european union. i am aware that there have been repeated requests from some member states for an increase in their quotas, and i have not forgotten the declaration made by the council. however, an analysis of the current market situation has shown that an increase of the potato starch production quotas should be avoided at the moment. if we increase the quotas in a situation where we have over-production within the european union, this would put even heavier pressure on the prices. we should take the opportunity to take another two years as suggested, and then, in the health check, go into details to see what a viable future for our potato starch production could look like.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is the fifth time that the european parliament has considered a regulation on potato starch production quotas. i have the honour to report on this regulation for the second time. i had the pleasure of meeting you in 2005. in practice, we have two issues to resolve. firstly, for how long the system of limiting potato starch production is to be extended and, secondly, whether the production quotas allocated to individual countries are to be maintained unchanged or adjusted. the european commission proposes to maintain the quota system for another 2 years without any change in the amounts. however, in the committee on agriculture, many meps pointed out that two years was far too short for any sensible planning and the commission therefore adopted a four-year period. as rapporteur, i supported this proposal. and it's right, because farmers and starch producers can't be surprised by too much change too quickly. the question of the production quotas for starch is more difficult. the two new member states, poland and lithuania, indicate, as they did two years ago, that the amounts allocated to them are too low in relation to their potential and needs. lithuania has a quota of around 1200 tonnes and cannot maintain even one plant, as a consequence lithuania has stopped producing starch, but wants and needs to produce within 4,7 thousand tonnes. poland, the largest potato producer in europe, or more precisely in the european union, received 144 thousand tonnes, several times less than the largest german, french and dutch quotas. as rapporteur, i proposed an increase in the quotas for poland and lithuania, totalling less than 40 000 tonnes, which is less than 2% of the total quota of 1948 000 tonnes. however, by a margin of 17 votes to 20, the proposal to increase the amounts was rejected in committee. as rapporteur, i have a duty to present the arguments of the majority, which is small. it is also my duty to mention the reasons of the minority which has tabled its amendments. the committee was concerned that the increase in quotas could destabilize the market. i think that's an unwarranted concern. first, it is a small increase, less than 2% of the total. second, the market has changed. potato starch, although of better quality, is replaced by inferior grain starch. the proportion of potato starch in total production has decreased over the last 3 years from 25% to 20%. it means there's just no potato starch. thirdly, there is a disproportion between the old and the new member states. the old countries have 90% of the quota and the new ones only 10%, although they represent more than 25% of the union's population potential. fourthly, the amounts allocated are often not used, by a few or even a dozen percent. if a crop fails, the market is short of starch and this is not compensated for in subsequent years, beyond the allowable balancing within the limits of 5% of the amount. fifthly, the fact that poland and lithuania are being disadvantaged by the quota system is not even disputed by the european commission, which two years ago, through the very mouth of the commissioner present here, mrs fisher boel, promised to take account of the special situation of these two countries, and nothing of the sort has happened. sixthly and lastly, in the face of the obvious needs of the two member states, which are clearly harmed by the current system, european solidarity is needed, not european egoism. the accession negotiations concluded certain matters five years ago, but that does not mean that we should be their eternal hostage and that we should turn a blind eye to the economic changes that have occurred since then. high isbo! in closing, i would like to draw attention to amendment 8, which may be the basis of a good compromise. its meaning is that if in one year there were any unused amounts in the whole system, then in the following year the member states concerned, but only the new ones, could ask the commission to grant additional amounts within the limits of the unused amounts in the previous year. in this way, actual production settled over a multiannual period would not exceed the 1948 thousand tonnes ceiling and the new member states would be able to apply for higher amounts. i'm asking you to consider accepting this amendment, which could lead to a good compromise.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is the second debate in the european parliament on the potato starch quota during the current term of office. the first took place in may 2005. unfortunately, little has changed in the past two years with regard to the increase in the quotas for potato starch production for the two new member states, poland and lithuania. despite the european commission's declaration in 2005 that the quotas would be reviewed and requests for an increase in the quotas allocated to these countries would be considered, nothing has been done in this regard. i can therefore reiterate what i pointed out in my speech two years ago, namely that the commission's production figures for starch do not reflect the production capacity of polish and lithuanian plants, the raw material resources and the growing demand for starch. there are voices that increasing production quotas is like opening pandora's box. if the amount is increased for poland and lithuania, this will result in similar demands for other agricultural products from the other member states. however, we must bear in mind that the starch market is a constantly developing market and the demand for these products is increasing. moreover, since poland's accession to the european union, there has been a systematic increase in imports of starch and starch products, and a marked increase in the trade deficit in starch turnover, which is the result of the reduction in production volumes. the european commission considers that negotiations within the world trade organisation are likely to lead to a reduction in the level of export refunds and a lower level of customs protection for imports of manioc starch, thereby increasing the availability of starch on the community market. however, it does not take into account that during the period of application of the quotas, i.e. during the next 2 marketing years, there is virtually no possibility of implementing any provisions of the future agreement on agriculture in the framework of the world trade organisation. thus, the impact of the multilateral agreements on the level of availability of imported starch on the community market will remain negligible. i hope that the report by mr wojciechowski will be supported by the members of parliament and that the european commission will accept the request of the polish and lithuanian governments to increase the amounts.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this discussion shows quite clearly the solidarity of the old 15 in allowing the new member states to secure potato starch production even for national needs. poland, the traditional producer of this article, has to import it. a similar example is in milk quantities, where the limits granted by the european commission are also lower than national consumption. there was a discussion about soft fruit here recently. the commission's lack of interest in helping the new member states to protect their markets was evident in this room. it repeatedly refers to the accession treaties, which were negotiated under very high pressure and are in many areas highly asymmetrical in terms of the amounts for the new members, preventing them from competing on equal terms in the community markets. there is so much talk in this room about the need for new member states to match their development. actions such as the commission's continuous maintenance of production quotas, which lead to the closure of production plants and the liquidation of farms, show that the new member states are not treated as partners in the union. if parliament rejects this symbolic correction once again, it will mean that we have really two unions. the commission has therefore decided to make a number of proposals to the council to ensure that the european union's integration process is not significantly slowed down.
mr. chairman, please! in the debate on the quota system for potato starch production, several important issues relating to this market should be mentioned. the arguments of those opposed to the increase in the quantities, concerning possible difficulties on the market and the emergence of a significant surplus of potato starch, are not true. the arguments concerning the wto negotiations, which are to lead, among other things, to the elimination of export subsidies, probably after 2013, are also irrelevant, since we are talking about the amounts for the next two years, i.e. 2007-2009. i don't think everyone realizes how versatile and wide-ranging the potato starch is. and let me remind you that we use it in food, feed, paper, pharmaceuticals, textiles, even metallurgy. as the market for starch products is developing and the demand for numerous starch products - there are over 600 of them - is increasing, i see no reason not to increase the harmfully low amounts for poland and lithuania. commissioner, polish starch products are able to compete on the foreign market because they are of better quality. the commissioner is trying to make the eu's agriculture competitive in the world, and will it be competitive if we limit production to low amounts? since there are signs from the market that demand for this product is increasing, it should be possible to increase the quantities for those countries that request it. since the 2003 reform aims to make the union's agricultural sector more market-oriented, let us raise the amounts.
mr. chairman, please! the potato starch problem has returned to the european parliament and will continue to do so until responsible and fair decisions are taken. this problem will continue as long as the largest potato producer in the european union, poland, is being harmed in the allocation of starch production quotas and as long as the commission ignores parliament. i would remind you that two years ago the european parliament almost unanimously supported the idea of transferring unused amounts from the old member states to the new member states. unfortunately, the commission did not follow this recommendation. now he says no. we polish mps are not surprised. when it comes to polish affairs, commissioner fisher boel always says no. her dislike of poland and polish farmers has become almost a public norm. he has no mercy for little lithuania. the refusal to grant it an additional allocation of just 3,500 tonnes of starch is the best proof that in the union the big take all and the small can only ask for it. but there is hope. what mr graefe zu baringdorf said today shows that there are parliamentarians in the european union who can think in terms of the whole of society and understand the victim, for which i thank the honourable member very warmly.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate on the potato starch quota system is perfectly illustrated by the proverb: the rich will never understand the poor. it is difficult to understand, and even more difficult to explain to farmers, why some countries, although not using production quotas, cannot use them when they have been allocated small quotas. why the fears of eu officials are more important than the logic, the needs, the solidarity of the peoples of the european union. polish farmers, if their colleagues from denmark, france, italy or germany were harmed, would stand behind them. the rapporteur's proposal to increase production quotas will not cause any damage to anyone, nor will it lead to changes in the budget, but its non-introduction will show that the principle of 'what is yours is mine' applies in the union, but what is mine is not to be moved. is that what we're doing?
the commissioner has been asking the polish members of parliament to increase the production quotas for potato starch for poland and lithuania since poland joined the european union. at the council meeting of 30 may 2005, the commission even declared that it was ready to consider the request of poland and lithuania in this matter, but after a two-year period of application of the current production quotas. it's a phase that passes. we are debating a council regulation on this matter, but neither the council nor the commission intend to act on the previous declarations. the increase in the production ceilings for starch for the new member states, mainly poland and lithuania, should be for at least three reasons. firstly, under the current production quotas, 90% of potato starch is produced in the 15 member states of the european union, and less than 10% in the 10 new member states. however, as far as the volume of potato production is concerned, only 70% is produced in the old 15 and as much as 30% in the new 10. secondly, starch production in the new member states is carried out by small processing plants which have a huge impact on the local economy and rural development, and therefore an increase in production quantities would have a positive impact on reducing unemployment in these areas. thirdly, agricultural production in the new member states has been subject to significant restrictions, both in terms of crop and livestock production, which has a negative impact on rural development.
member of the commission. mr president, this has been a very interesting debate, clearly showing that there are huge differences between different members of the european parliament as regards the possibility of modifying the starch quotas for two member states: poland and lithuania. it has already been mentioned today that these quotas were allocated to the new member states on the basis of historical production. they were accepted by all of the new member states, including poland and lithuania. we have to bear in mind that we have to be very careful to keep the market balanced. i would not want to upset this balance, and nor would other starch-producing member states. i think that the proposal of a two year rollover allows us, as i said previously, to include the discussion on the future of quotas for starch in our health check. it will also allow us to analyse the first effects of our sugar reform, where sweeteners, also based on cereal starch, will now face fierce competition from out-of-quota sugar in the chemical and fermentation industries. i am quite sure that this might have a knock-on effect on the starch market, leading to additional pressure on the potato starch market. finally, i want to react briefly to the point raised by the rapporteur about the reallocation of unused quotas. this has also been included in a new amendment. it is obvious that this proposal will lead to an increase in overall potato starch production. therefore it has to be seen in connection with the supply situation of the potato starch market, where, as i said before, currently 40% of production has to be exported. it also raises the question of equal treatment, as quotas are fixed by the same method for all member states. i think that the member states that have generated this shortfall want to benefit from the carry-over. so the commission will not support the idea of a four-year rollover.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. can you solve the world's problems without cleaning up your own mess? in the case of the european union, the answer is a resounding yes, if we look at how the problems of the new member states are being solved. today we are discussing another problem of the new member states. only two of them this time, in the potato starch market. the figures clearly show that the current organisation of this market is artificial, unfair and not based on the real situation. the largest potato producer in the eu, poland, has become an importer of potato starch. it's not because he can't produce it, it's not because he produces it too expensive, or it's not because he delivers a poor quality product. it is an importer because that is the policy decision on the amount of quotas. these are decisions that we should be ashamed of, because they are contrary to reason and common sense. they cause the inferior quality of the "godly" starch to be supplanted by the superior potato starch. do we really need to make the union a laughingstock and lose credibility in the world? the wise man corrects his error, but the foolish man is stuck in it. the current allocation of the starch quota certainly meets all the criteria for error. i believe the union can afford to repair it. building an enlarged europe is often like building a house from the roof, not from the foundations.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr antolína sánchez presedo on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the green paper: claims for compensation for the use of restrictive practices and abuse of a dominant position (2006/2207 (ini)) ().
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, we are here tonight to debate an issue of fundamental importance: rights. the court has been clear: the right to damages is necessary to guarantee the effectiveness of community competition rules. but consumers and business customers do not use their rights. injuries are left uncompensated, while society and the economy absorb the loss: that is just reality. that is clearly unjust, incompatible with our community of law and at odds with our shared competitiveness objectives. the european commission and, i believe, most members of this house will not tolerate this situation. our green paper set out the problems. finding appropriate solutions requires a very careful, measured approach, grounded in european legal traditions and developed through dialogue with stakeholders and, in particular, with parliament. that is why the commission will present a white paper, accompanied by an impact assessment, for further discussion around the new year. mr sánchez presedo’s report provides a wealth of pertinent input into this process. i congratulate the rapporteur wholeheartedly and thank the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs for all their work. i also thank mr doorn and the members of the committee on legal affairs for their contribution. we will give most careful consideration to all parliament’s recommendations in preparing the white paper. i am aware that some are concerned that fostering private damage actions might lead to a us-style litigation culture. we will certainly take this into account in drafting the white paper. but the scales are currently tipped against the victims. carefully balanced european solutions need to be found. common solutions that meet the strict tests of proportionality and subsidiarity should only be developed where national rules do not guarantee the right to damages effectively. i have also heard it said that more private actions will create additional costs for business. we heard similar arguments years ago as regards the ‘polluter pays’ principle for the environment. the fact is that today cartels and other abuses cause huge but hidden costs. empirical research shows that international cartels raise prices by over 20%. recent cartel decisions by the commission covered synthetic rubber, gas-insulated switch gear and acrylic glass. all these cartels increased input costs for business and harmed european competitiveness. the time has come to introduce the ‘competition-infringer pays’ principle. let us not forget that, whilst some industries have to create some pollution to do business, in the competition environment there is no need and no excuse for infringements. infringers may not like having to repair the damage they cause, but they should simply not break the rules in the first place. it is their choice. i believe that making sure businesses and consumers do not lose out because of the illegal behaviour of some companies is worth fighting for. i sincerely hope that this week parliament will send a strong message of support for this objective. we will discuss the detail together later, on the basis of a white paper that will be balanced and measured and subject to the vigorous and very valuable scrutiny of this house.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members, over 40 years ago in van gend & loos, the court gave eu market players and citizens the rights they need to play a central role in our european project. the legal environment in which the victims of antitrust infringements currently find themselves is not acceptable. i got the message that everybody agrees on that. i would like to thank you for the stimulating debate here this evening on how we might gradually improve this legal environment, and i look forward to parliament’s vote on the report. so far, so good. i would now like to respond to a few issues raised in our debate this evening. mr doorn raised the question of legal base. that is important and quite clear. at the stage of a green paper, and in the absence of any commission proposal, it is rather premature, if you will allow me to say so, to discuss the question of legal base at this stage. the treaty offers appropriate, specific and general legal bases for measures in this area and i imagine that we could agree upon that. however, a pertinent base, and hence the applicable procedure, can only be identified in line with the nature, objectives and scope of any individual measure possibly envisaged after the white paper. i will, however, consider the extent to which it may be appropriate to say something about legal bases in the forthcoming white paper. so, there is still something to look at there. i am aware of the need to be sensitive as regards national procedural rules. there is no doubt about that. that is quite a clear warning. on substance, we already have one uniform european competition law, and by their very nature, breaches of the antitrust rules have a cross-border impact because they affect our internal market, and that is what we are protecting. it makes sense to me that the right to compensation should also be equally enforceable throughout our internal market. it is only to the extent that the procedural rules of the member states do not guarantee effectively the substantive rights conferred by the treaty that the commission may seek some approximation of these rules. any measures proposed would have to meet the strict tests of subsidiarity, proportionality and necessity. the white paper will be accompanied by an impact assessment, as i have already said. mr evans mentioned the need to avoid encouraging a litigation culture and the risk of unmerited claims being brought. the commission is encouraging a competition culture compatible with our existing european legal cultures. we will pursue a measured and balanced approach, because like you, we are determined to avoid opening the door to the excesses which some other jurisdictions have experienced. but fear is a very bad adviser. none of the key characteristics of us antitrust litigation is suggested as an option in the green paper. many of those of support facilitating damage actions, like mrs bowles, stressed the need to avoid tilting the scales too much in favour of claimants. however, these same commentators also recognised that the scales are currently tipped against the victims of antitrust damages, and hence that something should be done. the commission is striving for a proportionate and measured approach developed in consultation with stakeholders. mrs wallis mentioned collective actions for damages claims. given the costs of litigation, it is unlikely that individual consumers will bring small-value damages claims against the perpetrators of competition law infringements. so it is worth looking at options for collective redress, as she rightly mentioned. the green paper looks at representative actions brought by consumer organisations. so let us be clear – and i repeat – us-style opt-out class actions are not on the agenda and will not be on my agenda. in opt-out class actions, lawyers act on behalf of an unidentified class of persons and mainly pursue their own interests. in representative actions, the latter have no separate interest different from that of the injured parties they represent. the commission thus believes that the interests of consumers are better served by a representative action than by an opt-out class action, and i hope this will also reassure mrs berès. your involvement signals the importance of the debate launched by the green paper, and is a reason for hope, as we are all aware that there is something to be done. there is no doubt about it: the devil is in the detail. i should like to leave you with two key messages. first, i hope that this house will send out a strong signal that the current situation is not acceptable and that is what i have got from you. this is all about rights, and this house has been a consistent supporter of rights across all policies and all areas of european cooperation. we have to give european citizens and european businesses the ability to exercise their rights under european competition laws. this is an area in which the community can show its relevance to the daily life of citizens and to business. second, it is by working together in dialogue, through ideas and constructive criticism, that we will be able to make improvements, at the same time avoiding the known pitfalls. i look forward to taking this process forward with the white paper at the turn of the year. thank you for the interesting debate and thank you especially, rapporteur, for your hard work on this important file.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european parliament will decide today whether to grant discharge to the institutions of the european union for the implementation of the 2005 budget. since the court of auditors has not shown in its reports any flagrant negligence on the part of any of these institutions, i am of the opinion that we can give each of them this discharge. however, this does not mean that the annual accounts submitted to parliament are free from errors. first, although the court of auditors found that, on the whole, the financial statements of the european communities gave a fair view of the financial situation of the community at the end of december 2005 and that it did not find any significant irregularities, it did find a number of errors both in the amounts recorded in the central accounting systems and in the reports submitted by the member states. it is particularly worrying that certain types of irregularities continue year after year, despite the critical remarks of both the court and the european parliament. secondly, i would like to join the voices of both the court of auditors and the european parliament in calling for greater transparency in the use and management of union funds. in particular, i would like to support the commission's efforts to make public the amounts of direct payments received by the largest agricultural producers in the member states. i also expect simplification of procedures for both awarding contracts and receiving grants, which will increase the transparency of the commission's work and reduce the risk of corruption.
madam president! i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their insightful and very thorough reports. i also thank the court of auditors, whose reports provide us with a wealth of information on the implementation of the union budget. but i feel that these reports and reports are written in a language that is not very clear to the average citizen and that we should improve the communication of our documents, because we are not only developing them for ourselves, but also for the public. in budgetary control procedures, the greatest attention shall be paid to the reliability of the accounts. and this is important, but sometimes in accounting, everything is right, and in reality, the money is wasted, it's spent inefficiently. i would like to see more attention paid in future to the evaluation of the merits of the expenditure and not just to its formal correctness.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am pleased to be able to speak in this chamber in such an important debate on one of the most important issues and threats of our time: the fight against hiv and aids. the world today seems to have become somewhat accustomed to the problem of aids and hiv and to place too little emphasis on fighting this problem and too little financial resources in relation to the importance and the problem of the threat of this epidemic. and the reality is terrifying and completely different. nearly 40 million people worldwide are infected with hiv, and more than 95 percent of these people live in developing countries. this fact must lead us to give more aid to these countries. alarmingly, more than half of all new hiv infections are among young people under the age of 25. the number of infections in the european union and its neighbouring countries continues to rise at an alarming rate. also, remember that among the groups most at risk and at risk for hiv infection are drug users, immigrants, and homosexual men. all these groups require special care and assistance. this is why it is so important to regularly include the fight against hiv in the agenda of all institutions and organisations that will encourage a safe lifestyle, avoiding all risks. it is also important that the commission uses the neighbourhood policy to reach out to endangered habitats in countries neighbouring the european union, with particular attention to the kaliningrad region, where the threat is increasing at a pace that is also alarming. but what should be most important for us is to support campaigns that clearly communicate hiv infections as a preventive measure against the plague of our time. i want to emphasize once again that only prevention and education, especially among young people, about the risks of hiv, will help to avoid a global epidemic.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we have just voted amendments extending the starch quota system for four years, and that is good news for the old member states, which have 90% of the quota and are happy with it. let's do something nice for the new states that are less happy with their quotas and pass the eighth amendment. it introduces balancing with carry-overs: what the old member states do not use in one year would be used in the next year by the new member states, with the commission's agreement. i would point out that this amendment to the multiannual financial statement does not increase the amounts and i would urge you to approve it in the name of european solidarity. if this amendment is adopted, i have the uen group's authority to withdraw the fifth, sixth and seventh amendments, which lead to increases in the amounts.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i vote in favour of the report by mrs edit herczog on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2005. mrs herczog rightly identified the problem of the growing number of community agencies which seem to be out of place in the overall context and whose tasks do not always correspond to the real needs of the union and the expectations of its citizens. i support the call on the commission to set out a general framework for the creation of new community agencies, to present a cost-benefit analysis before each new agency is set up and to present a value-added analysis of each existing agency every five years. i welcome the decision of the agency's management board to adopt internal control standards based on the standards adopted by the commission and iso 9000.
mr. chairman, please! this report addresses two fundamental problems facing the european union. the first is future enlargement, the second is cohesion policy in its new dimension, after the accession of new countries to the community. the continuation of the negotiations with croatia and the need for full stabilisation in the western balkans require an analysis of the implications of enlargement for the european union as a whole. the analysis is all the more important as we are in the midst of a long association and are currently negotiating with turkey, but we must remember countries such as ukraine. the report is a good start to the work on the budget review that awaits us in 2009. this type of work is preparing the future of our community for its next 50 years. the accession of 10 central and eastern european countries in 2004 and of bulgaria and romania since 2007 has increased the competitiveness and dynamism of the community as a whole and contributed to stability and security and to the consolidation of democracy. cohesion policy is a solidarity and integration tool for the less developed countries, which is why this report is so important.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr virrankoski on the commission's annual policy strategy for the 2008 budgetary procedure. this report is the first step in the annual budgetary procedure. it sets out the political priorities of the european parliament for 2008 and provides a guide for the commission in preparing the preliminary draft budget for 2008. the report covered most of the important issues. the issue of increasing the coherence between the legislative work programme and the budgetary procedure was raised and the need to respect the assumptions of the financial perspective 2007-2013 was emphasised. in addition, meps agreed to give priority to the motto 'budget focused on results' again in the 2008 budget, as they had done in the 2007 budget.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that in the andreyev report, when voting on point l of the preamble (it was a roll-call vote), i voted for by mistake, and i wanted to vote against.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the fight against hiv/aids in the european union and its neighbouring countries in 2006-2009. the report by mr georgs andrejevs is a very good response to the european commission's programme 2006-2009 to combat hiv/aids in the european union and its neighbouring countries. the rapporteur rightly points out that there is a need to launch a comprehensive social campaign to raise awareness of aids prevention and to combat the stigma and discrimination against those affected by the disease. recent trends indicate that the number of people infected with hiv is steadily increasing. georgs andrejevs emphasises the role of international organisations in the fight against aids, but notes that they lack sufficient funding. the rapporteur is taking a welcome initiative to encourage the commission and the member states to carry out an assessment of ways of helping healthcare systems that face the challenge of ensuring universal access to expensive antiretroviral therapy.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my approval and support for the idea of incorporating the athens convention of the international maritime organisation into community legislation. my position is entirely consistent with that of the legal affairs committee, of which i am a member. i am also in favour of extending the limits of liability in passenger transport within the european union, both by sea and by road. i'm particularly interested in all kinds of incidents where passengers suffer, which is to say, in a very simple way, the most important thing is to increase passenger safety. i therefore believe that before the athens convention of the international maritime organisation is incorporated into community legislation, it should focus on the issue of regulating the insurance of carriers covering the obligations provided for in the 2002 protocol and the application of a reasonable tariff of charges. i think it would also be appropriate to consider the possibility of a reasonable charge for this type of insurance for carriers and the question of a possible exemption of carriers from liability in the event of terrorist incidents. and one last note. in my view, it would be appropriate to pay more attention to the situation of small national waterway operators in the context of passenger safety.
madam president! i'd like to begin with a quote from what i believe to be the world's greatest marine, joseph conrad. well, in the book of the mirror of the sea, he writes that the uncharted and heartless sea has given nothing to men who seek its uncertain graces. unlike the earth, it cannot be tamed by endless patience or the heaviest sweat. the ocean, as if too great for ordinary virtue, knows neither compassion nor faith nor law nor memory. these words were written by conrad in the age of the end of the age of sailors, but still today the sea is an element that is largely unpredictable and governed, as conrad himself would probably say, not so much by its law as by lawlessness. maritime transport is therefore not comparable to inland transport, especially in europe's inland waters, which are often man-made channels or artificially regulated quiet rivers, or waterways. the commission's proposal to equalise the liability of passenger carriers on the sea and inland waterways therefore seems to be completely flawed. it's a good thing the transportation and tourism commission rejected that proposal. i hope that we will be able to maintain this trend in the vote in plenary. the time limit does not allow me to give any other arguments, so i will mention only one, namely that if we are looking very hard for ways of reducing the burden on road transport, which we are doing, we cannot impose burdens on potential alternative means of transport, which is what inland shipping is supposed to be.
mr. chairman, please! mr. sterckx's report is designed to prevent accidents and collisions. from this point of view, it is important to identify and analyse situations in aviation, called near collisions. the proposal to set up an independent maritime safety authority raises some questions. for example, in poland there are already maritime authorities that can and do enforce safety rules. perhaps it would be enough to extend their powers to investigate accidents. the baltic countries have good solutions. these experiences and solutions can be transferred to the mediterranean and black sea regions. i thank the rapporteur, mr kohlíčko, for his inquiry and flexibility in preparing the report. especially since i represent a landlocked country. regarding the report by mr paolo costa. i think it is good that we are supplementing the liability of shipping companies for accidents both at sea and inland. i am in favour of the unification of rules and the inclusion of all transport, including inland passenger transport by sea and river, in the athens convention. the package of regulations promotes greater responsibility for safety, promotes the protection of life and the environment, but it will cost. from this point of view, consistency in the enforcement of these new regulations is very important. consistency in enforcement so that all shipowners, ports and states are equally committed to the effort. if there are gaps in enforcement, we will be faced with a distortion of competition within the european union. i wanted to finish by thanking commissioner barrot. i welcome the commission's comprehensive and coherent presentation of seven proposals on maritime affairs.
member of the commission. i have had similar experiences of uncivilised behaviour by security officials outside the european union. however, i do not think that the european union, the commission or any other union institution can have any impact on the behaviour of countries outside the european union.
member of the commission. the experience gained from the application of regulation (ec) no 2204/2002 is currently being used by the commission in order to establish revised rules applying to aid for employment of disabled workers in the context of the preparation of a new commission regulation, which will revise, consolidate, simplify and harmonise the existing block exemption regulations. this new regulation, which forms part of the implementation of the state aid action plan, will replace existing instruments, including regulation (ec) no 2204/2002. the commission adopted a first draft of the regulation just today. this will allow the commission to consult member states and listen to the views of other interested stakeholders, including the european parliament, in the coming months, in line with the procedure established by council regulation (ec) no 994/98 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty establishing the european community to certain categories of horizontal state aid. block exemption regulations only apply to measures which constitute state aid within the meaning of article 87 of the ec treaty. the fact that regulation (ec) no 2204/2002 includes provisions on employment aid in favour of disabled workers does not mean that all state measures in favour of disabled workers are to be considered as state aid. as made clear in recital 6 of regulation (ec) no 2204/2002, some state measures in favour of disabled workers do not qualify as state aid, for instance because they are general in nature. such measures will continue not to be considered as state aid in the future. the purpose of the block exemption is to ensure that member states are not obliged to notify the commission of those state measures which do indeed constitute state aid under article 88 of the ec treaty, as long as the aid measure concerned fulfils a number of conditions as specified in the regulations.
mr. chairman, please! thank you, chief. the problem is that the lack of legal certainty in some member states, including my own, has led to a dramatic decline in the number of companies and businesses interested in employing disabled people since poland joined the european union, due to concerns about the level of public aid being exceeded. that's why i'd like to ask you again about this case. i share the line of work which is to say very clearly that the employment of disabled people, wherever it takes place, whatever the sector in which they are employed, is not regarded by the commission as public aid but as a substitute for the professional activation of those who would otherwise be on the margins of social activity.
vice-president of the commission. members have said that these people are losing their jobs due to a selection process. this is not the case. the contract between the european institution and the private body will end and the functions will be taken over by a european agency, so this is a different process and it is really impossible to transfer people from a private body to the staff of the european union without normal procedures. you must understand that you have in the european institutions people who are working full- or part-time – up to 40 000 people – and the rules to recruit people are very strict and very seriously followed and watched by staff unions, so the commission is committed to following these rules very clearly. the rules are that everybody must be treated equally, and to recruit people from outside, the procedure must be under very clear staff regulations and rules, so that is the basis. we had these problems when, under the administrative reforms, we transferred people from different types of contracts to the contract agent model, which was adopted as part of the administrative reform. it worked quite smoothly, so i think that those people have every possibility to continue their work, but they must pass the necessary procedures, and this is the selection procedure of epso.
vice-president of the commission. the question concerned the funding of building policy. of course, the commission is solely responsible for its buildings and is not in a position to comment on the other institutions’ plans. as far as the commission is concerned, every effort is made to ensure that the funding of accommodation for commission staff is judiciously managed to minimise administrative costs in this area. the commission closely follows the property market in brussels and luxembourg and has proven to be a successful negotiator of the financial conditions for its buildings. the commission analyses the cost-effectiveness of the various options – purchase or leasehold. the commission has established a policy of decentralisation by locating some of its offices and dgs outside the european quarters of brussels and luxembourg. in so doing, not only are the prices of these decentralised buildings lower than those of the equivalent buildings in the european quarter, but there is also less pressure on property prices in the european quarter. and, very importantly, the commission pays special attention to building efficiency by ensuring the flexibility of the fittings and by using the maximum available surface. waste of space is reduced to a minimum. the eco-management and audit scheme was launched in 2002 to improve energy performance, consumption of resources and emissions checks in buildings. the commission is currently developing a new life-cycle cost methodology to assess the technical quality of buildings, including energy efficiency. this is expected to be applied as of september 2008. all the less efficient buildings are progressively being replaced by better designed buildings at lower cost. thank you very much for explaining parliament’s buildings policy, but, as i said, this is the commission and we do not comment on other institutions’ building plans.
mr. chairman, please! it seems to me that it is important for all of us that this saving is not just in the commission, but everywhere. we have a huge shortage of money for various scientific and research programmes that bring us added value. the money lost in the various buildings that are not being used is a typical loss for all of us - for the commission, the council and the european parliament. does the commissioner think that we should simply analyse the situation of the total real estate that the european union has and come up with some strategic action plan to make better use of this real estate and possibly to gain benefits?
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate ms. lichtenberger on a job well done. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to express my support for this multilateral international agreement in which the union plays a leading role, despite the technical and systemic differences between the partners. we are thus nearing the end of a long and arduous process that began many years ago. we are thus achieving the goal of a free, safe and common civil aviation market in europe. we are experiencing both positive and negative effects of the rapid development of both passenger and cargo aviation. in this context, i am very pleased that the polish aviation market is the fastest growing in europe, with an average of over 11% per year. in the world, only china has a faster growth rate in air traffic. the development of low-cost airlines is clearly contributing to this growth. it also helps to develop very important regional airports. already, it can be seen that the level of air traffic in europe is close to full saturation and a critical phenomenon in the form of bad weather, a breakdown or a strike is enough to cause serious disturbances in the entire european system. i would like to stress that the european common aviation area will be responsible for the supervision of air navigation services in the individual countries, that it will cooperate with these services and with eurocontrol. sesar will play a very important role in this management. two final points. the european common aviation area should become the precursor to a single global airspace. i will refer to the commissioner's statement here. and the second point. in all the activities covered by this agreement, the subjectivity of the passenger, including the disabled, must not be lost, as the rapporteur has said. in this context, i think that the example of the recent firefighting strike at brussels airport was very negative.
mr. chairman, please! the galileo satellite navigation system will decide the place of the european union in global civilization in the next century. the particular interests of companies and states must not override the essential interest of the european union as a whole in this matter. the european parliament is concerned about the delays in the implementation of the galileo project and calls on the european commission to present a plan to guarantee the launch of the european union's own satellite navigation system. the european commission should receive the support of the european parliament in its efforts to build galileo in an alternative way, through a different group of contractors than the consortium identified in 2005. we must bear in mind that europe may be overtaken in the construction of satellite navigation systems by the russian glonass system and also by the chinese beidou system. the galileo system is the civilized future of the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the flood risk assessment directive emphasises the need for action, which unfortunately is not always respected in practice in business. flood risk assessment and management is the basis for, among other things, the development of multiannual construction plans for facilities, information systems and other flood mitigation activities. it seems that this directive should be linked to the provisions on the assessment and prevention of the risks of drought, which are increasingly causing enormous material and environmental losses. both topics are related to water management and management. the collected flood waters can be used to reduce the effects of droughts. both systems should operate across river basins and take into account the interests of all countries and regions associated with them. i would like to thank mr. richard seeber for preparing a very useful paper. the amendments submitted complete and enrich the document.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. seasonal and regional variations in waste, long-term climate change and lack of coordination between countries have led to severe flooding, which accounts for 43% of all natural disasters in europe. they are often cross-border in nature. human activity has played a role in this, through industrial deforestation in mountainous regions, which has accelerated soil erosion and rainfall runoff, and urban development in former floodplains. trends in the frequency and intensity of floods in the future will also be closely linked to meteorological conditions, climate change and river flow changes. it is therefore necessary to take measures to prevent and reduce floods. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the ozone layer is a very important one. in the past, the emptying of reservoirs in one country has resulted in severe flooding in another. given the cross-border nature of floods, efforts should be made to ensure effective international, regional and cross-border cooperation, including with third countries, to improve preparedness and to contribute to flood mitigation.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's been almost half a century since the first roman report was written. since then, natural resources have dwindled, but we've made tremendous technological progress, learned to use resources and energy better, and have access to resources that we couldn't even dream of using 50 years ago. have we done everything that knowledge, technology and experience allow us to do? i'm sure you didn't. the rapporteur has made this clear. i fully support the report, but at the same time i see that the european union is doing a great deal, much more than other countries, to protect the soil, the air and the water. it also does a lot for recycling and reusing raw materials. however, there is a need to step up efforts to make better use of post-production waste, which not only reduces environmental pollution but also contributes to better use of natural resources.
mr. chairman, please! of the major european political and economic problems, not one can be solved without dialogue and cooperation with the united states. only a common euro-atlantic market can give us a competitive edge against china and india. only american-european cooperation can bring success in confronting the threat to our security posed by iran - today's greatest threat to world peace, a nuclear power and an open enemy of western civilization. only together can we stop korea from uncontrolled aggression. only by maintaining proportions together can we stop russia from abusing its military and energy power in europe and the neighbourhood. we have a chance to go into more pragmatic waters in this area today. it's not just a matter of changing the power in washington, but also in paris, berlin. i hope very much that this will succeed and that europe's identity will never again be reduced to an artificial, cheap, harmful confrontation with the united states in the face of serious threats to our security and our values.
mr. chairman, please! the european union countries are now wavering between two positions: reservation and distance towards the united states and support without taking european interests into account. both of those attitudes are wrong. the answer to the age-old question of whether to have more competition or more cooperation with the us is obvious. in the current world situation, a conscious, intelligent cooperation is the only chance for the united states and the union. let's start with the full, quite obvious cooperation in economics, in technology. it's not worth studying what's already been done on the other side of the atlantic, for example. for example, we're better at renewable energy, americans are better at clean coal technology. let's fully open the market to each other and to technology exchange. let us develop a wider cooperation within the european seventh framework programme and the us national science foundation. let's not compete so fiercely in the gas and oil markets. let's get together, let's work together, diversification is important on both sides of the atlantic.
mr. chairman, please! relations between such important world leaders as the united states and the european union have always been a source of great excitement, not only because of their impact on the international order, but also because of their complexity and the range of issues they address. all the issues raised in the resolution should be considered important and should be the subject of a wide-ranging debate at the forthcoming summit. the commitment of both partners to cooperate in strengthening the transatlantic market is very welcome. i also agree that these relations need to be given a new impetus and that the way to do this is to update the new agenda. we are now witnessing a huge increase in international competition from countries like china, india and russia. therefore, it is in the interest of both the european union and the united states to deepen trade and economic cooperation by establishing a common methodology or reducing regulatory divergences. i would also like to draw attention to an issue which is currently one of the major problems in the context of the eu-us relationship, namely the missile shield problem. it should be made public whether the issue of the missile shield should not be subject to joint political decisions by nato and the european union within the framework of the common foreign and security policy. i agree that we must support the united states in the fight against terrorism and in the defence of security in the world, but we must not allow the emergence of new dividing lines in europe. such divisions within the european union itself continue to exist, for example, in the area of the visa-free regime. citizens of the new member states and of greece continue to be discriminated against in the context of free entry into the united states. i appeal to the principle of loyal cooperation and non-discrimination.
mr. chairman, please! for several years now we have been calling for the united states to abolish visas for citizens of certain member states. but all this time, ineffectively, which is understandably frustrating in these countries, including poland. it cannot be that the visa policy of the united states divides the european union into first and second class citizens, allowing some to enter the united states without a visa and others to wait in long queues for a visa. however, since december last year, there has been a willingness on the american side to make changes to the visa waiver program. we were told about this both at the capitol and at the state department and the department of homeland security last december. we must seize this opportunity and, at the next summit, put pressure on the americans to finally lift the visa requirement for all european union citizens. i would like to make that appeal to the presidency and to the commission. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the exchange of personal data of persons travelling to the united states does not infringe the principles of data protection.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the recommendation for a council common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing regulation (ec) no 2320/2002. mr paolo costa pointed out that the additional security measures proposed by the european commission do not require armed guards to be on board aircraft. such action, according to the rapporteur, is possible if the competent authority of the member state is in favour. the problem of financing additional security measures was also well presented. the security costs are to be borne in part by the member states and not by the air carriers alone, as the european commission's draft envisaged. the cost of in-flight security included in the price of the ticket should be indicated separately on the ticket or communicated to the passenger in a legible manner. i also agree with the proposal in the report that specific measures implementing the common basic standards, such as the european commission's decision on restrictions on the taking of liquids on board, should expire six months after they come into force. a thorough reassessment of safety risks and costs will be required to extend their validity.
mr. chairman, please! we have just adopted a very important report on croatia's progress towards joining the union of 27. there should be no doubt that croatia is part of our european family and that it should soon become a full member of the community. although some societies are opposed to further enlargements to include turkey and ukraine, and although there is a need to reform the eu institutions so that they can function efficiently, we cannot stop the integration process that began more than 50 years ago. i am confident that croatia will continue the reforms it has initiated, including in the areas of justice, administration and the fight against corruption, and thus fulfil all the political and economic conditions for membership of the union, namely the copenhagen criteria and the conditions laid down for the stabilisation and association process. i hope that croatia will be the 28th member of the union, which is what i wish for it and what we wish for ourselves.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr hannes svoboda on the progress made by croatia in 2006. the rapporteur has presented an in-depth analysis of the current political, economic and social situation in croatia. the report presented is objective, indicating on the one hand the efforts made by the croatian government to meet the eu requirements, e.g. with regard to the political accession criteria, and on the other hand the problems still to be solved. an important element of this is the implementation of the acquis in all its areas, given that the joint review process was successfully completed in october 2006 and negotiations on specific aspects of the acquis have started. in addition, the rapporteur rightly drew attention to the positive and leading role played by croatia in south-east europe.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. i should like to begin by congratulating mr simon coveney on his contribution to the presentation of this report to the european parliament. as co-rapporteur of this report on behalf of the socialist group, i would also like to thank mr coveney for his cooperation. mr coveney's cooperation with other political groups can serve as a model for political work in the european parliament, and i wanted to emphasise this today. the report before us today is one of the most important documents of the european parliament. the issue of the report on human rights in the world is a matter of ordering the matter, because we are dealing with many reports on the observance of human rights in the world. these are reports from international organizations like human rights watch, amnesty international. such reports are submitted by the parliaments of the member states of the european union, and by the united states congress. the european parliament is therefore in a particularly difficult position to combine what is most important in terms of human rights in its report. i would like to point out that in working on this report we have worked very closely with international organisations - human rights watch, amnesty international, the national parliaments of the european union countries, and we have also had a dialogue, within the framework of the eu-us delegation, with members of congress and senators of the united states congress on the human rights issues raised in this report. one of the most important issues we have to consider today is the question of the european parliament's effectiveness in the field of human rights. i wanted to highlight what i think we have achieved in parliament in the last year - such as the human rights work in belarus, the work of the ad hoc committee investigating the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners and the report that this committee presented to parliament. the european parliament can undoubtedly be proud of these achievements. human rights should be a fundamental element of the european union's external policy.
mr. chairman, please! the union, which is founded on values such as the defence of human dignity, the principles of democracy and individual freedom, must constantly send clear signals that it is prepared not only to affirm its commitment to these values but also to actively fight for all those who are persecuted for their beliefs, for their religion, tortured or sentenced to long prison terms for their opinions. the report rightly points to the need for a global strategy for peace in the darfur region. the union must act in cooperation with the united nations high council for human rights. only effective engagement of the union in the work of the united nations will allow for the adoption of dynamic and effective measures to provide a concrete response to this humanitarian tragedy in africa. however, many issues remain unresolved and there has been no clear progress over the past year. suffice it to mention the fate of five bulgarian nurses and a palestinian doctor imprisoned and sentenced to death in libya, on absurd charges of deliberately infecting children with hiv, the violation of the rights of religious and ethnic minorities in china, the restriction of freedom of speech and repression against democracy defenders in russia, terror in communist cuba, and finally turkey. the situation in this country is extremely worrying. a country that aspires to membership of the union does not show significant progress in the field of human rights protection. on the contrary, i'm not. religious freedom is clearly under threat, as the tragic events of recent days show, when three christians who worked for a bible publishing company were killed. there is a witch-hunt atmosphere in the turkish media, with christians being the victims. i believe that the 50th anniversary of the european community and the debate on the future treaty are an opportunity to develop a new and effective policy for the protection of human rights in the external dimension. the international role of the european union in this area must be strengthened and appropriate provisions should be introduced in the new treaty, and the role of the fundamental rights agency in this area should also be given special consideration.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we very much welcome your decision to include the current situation in ukraine and the european union's relations with ukraine on the agenda. the importance of ukraine for stability in europe cannot be underestimated. i am therefore pleased to have the opportunity to make a statement on behalf of the presidency of the council on ukraine. the orange revolution has demonstrated the power of civil society movements in eastern europe. the largely free and fair democratic parliamentary elections in march 2006 serve as an example and a model for other states in the region. but this is not the first time that ukraine has been at a very difficult point in its difficult transition and transformation process: the orange revolution, which was already in itself the crisis-like intensification of a political conflict, then the months-long back and forth, the difficulties of coalition and government formation after the parliamentary elections in march 2006 as a conflict over the country's internal and external orientation, and now the decision by president yushchenko on 2 april 2007 to dissolve the parliament, and the refusal of the government and parliament to comply with this decision. the position of both sides is met with considerable constitutional concerns in ukraine itself. the ukrainian parliament has called on the constitutional court to rule on the constitutionality of the presidential resolution on the dissolution. the council is following events in kiev with great attention, but of course also with concern. since the outbreak of the crisis, the european union has maintained close contacts with both parties to the conflict. javier solana spoke to the parties involved on several occasions and expressed the european union's position. the day after the resolution was announced, we, as the presidency, called for restraint and for dialogue on the basis of democratic rules and the ukrainian constitution. we are also in close contact with the groups involved in the crisis and the protagonists on both sides as the local presidency. the european union will continue these contacts. only if the ukrainian constitutional court can decide on the constitutionality of the parliament's dissolution without external pressure can it fulfil its difficult task. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. we therefore welcome the continued willingness to talk between president yushchenko and prime minister yanukovych. we strongly welcome the assurances from both sides that violence as a means of settling the conflict is out of the question. we expect both sides to stick to their public statements and commitments to the european union to avoid further escalation of the crisis. despite all the changes in political conditions in kiev, democracy, free and fair elections, freedom of expression and the press remain the basis of political and social life. we are therefore confident that ukraine will find a way out of this political crisis that is in line with our shared vision of democracy and the rule of law. the european union will continue to support ukraine in this process.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i thank you for the invitation to speak here today on relations between the european union and ukraine. this debate is of the utmost importance and more timely than ever. one reason is that on 5 march we began negotiations on the conclusion of a new, enlarged agreement, which will put our relations with ukraine on a new footing. the other reason is the development of the internal political situation in ukraine. the resolution of the current crisis is of the utmost importance for the further consolidation of democratic relations in the country and the continuity of the reform process. the commission has been closely following recent domestic developments in ukraine. we are concerned about the hardening of the front between president yushchenko and prime minister yanukovych following the dissolution of parliament by president yushchenko. we are very keen to see ukraine continue its reform course towards full democratisation, stability and prosperity. stability is vital for ukraine and its future in europe, and it is also important for the european union, because we need stability and prosperity in our neighbourhood. ukrainian democracy is currently undergoing a maturity test. president barroso, during his meeting with president yushchenko last week, pointed out that there is no political problem in a democracy for which a political solution in accordance with the law cannot be found. the open political debate and the largely peaceful demonstrations in the streets of kiev so far have shown that the people of ukraine understand how to resolve internal political disputes in a responsible and democratic way. it is crucial that all relevant political forces work together constructively and sincerely seek a political compromise. this should be done in full respect of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. all political forces must respect the democratic rules of the game, fight corruption and respect the independence of the constitutional court and its judgments. in ukraine, there is also a need for a participatory process leading to a new-style constitutional reform based on political compromise, which is durable and provides the political system with clear control and regulation mechanisms. it cannot be the role of the european union to intervene in this crisis by direct mediation. we can and should appeal to the sense of restraint and reason of all those politically active in ukraine and call on them to find a compromise together. this should be our message, confident that the young ukrainian democracy will pass this test and that politicians will continue to work for the good of the whole country and for the future of relations between the european union and ukraine. since the so-called orange revolution and the adoption of the eu-ukraine action plan, the eu and ukraine have become much closer and their relations have developed in a positive way. the success of the european neighbourhood policy is exemplified in ukraine. our policy dialogue has reached a considerable degree of intensity and the number of sectors of our cooperation has steadily increased. we have decided to increase our annual support under the new instrument of the european neighbourhood and partnership programme to eur 120 million. we have initialled the agreements on visa facilitation and readmission and are preparing far-reaching steps in the field of trade which will lead us towards a free trade area in the context of the new enlarged agreement. we've just started to make our relationship even closer. on 5 march the commission opened negotiations with ukraine on the new extended agreement. the negotiations were aimed at concluding an agreement which reflects the importance of eu-ukraine relations and opens up new prospects, such as the prospect of a deeper partnership in the energy sector. the second round of negotiations took place in kiev on 2 and 3 april. we are very pleased with the progress made in the talks, which have been substantial, and with ukraine's strong commitment. the commission intends to continue negotiations on the new extended agreement as planned. ukraine is a key partner of the european union and we remain firmly committed to further developing and strengthening our relations with this important neighbour.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, president-in-office, commissioner, the political crisis in kiev is a matter of concern to those who welcome the political progress made since the orange revolution. let me remind those here of the leading and pioneering role played by parliament in 2004. it is vital that today’s situation be resolved in line with the rule of law and democratic principles consistent with european values and, above all, in accordance with the democratically expressed wishes of the ukrainian people. in my view, we could have done more to prevent this crisis from developing, notably by providing more substantial moral and financial support to help ukraine overcome the very difficult political legacy of its soviet past. we must devote every effort to the task of nurturing and encouraging ukraine’s democratic gains. it is now time for europe to engage in a more committed and consistent manner. a new enhanced agreement should establish relations between the eu and ukraine on a new, reinforced basis commensurate with the challenges posed by reality. the european union must understand and acknowledge the context in which this crisis has arisen. there is little use calling for ukraine’s leaders to reach a sensible internal settlement when not all the sides in the conflict are willing to share power, and the normal constitutional mechanisms have fallen into disrepair. some may use the crisis in ukraine as a pretext for not doing anything, claiming that the situation there creates an obstacle to more serious engagement on our part. that is exactly the opposite of what we should do. the difficult internal situation is a challenge to the union to set out a practical course of engagement for resolving the crisis, which might as such have wider implications for europe. it is high time to do more for ukraine. tangible progress has been made since the orange revolution, but may be wasted if it is not further pursued. let us support ukraine in its european choice.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament was very much involved in ukraine during the orange revolution. we were very impressed by the call from the maidan in kiev for respect for dignity, for a democratic state of law, for a state free of economic and political corruption. we've been waiting for this ukraine all along. from this place, from the european parliament, i appeal to both sides of the conflict in ukraine, to president yushchenko, to yulia tymoshenko - the symbol of the orange revolution - and to prime minister yanukovych - the representative of the ruling coalition - to resolve this crisis through negotiations. compromise is a highly valued feature of the european union, a value that has been shown time and again to prevent many conflicts. it's good that both sides are sitting down today. we hope that they will be concluded quickly and successfully. we would like to continue to have the basis and the conviction to declare ourselves open to the european aspirations of the ukrainians here in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! three years ago, we rightly supported democratic change in ukraine. today, ukraine has a free media and better functioning democratic institutions. now only ukrainians can decide on the future of ukraine, on the resolution of democratic tensions or crises. but we have something to do, too. we have also assumed some moral obligations in supporting the ukrainian reforms, and at the same time we want very good relations with that country. so first of all, we should start serious talks with the ukrainians about close energy cooperation. we have the ability to secure our oil and gas supplies through ukraine to the union, independent of russia. secondly, an active investment stance in ukraine is required. this is mainly due to gas and oil pipelines, which are underfunded or incomplete. thirdly, we also need to be diplomatically active with the caspian sea countries, which are potential suppliers of oil and gas to the union via ukraine. fourthly, and most importantly, we should pursue an open door policy towards ukraine, treating this country as our closest strategic partner, a future member of the union. this will be a real support for an independent and stable, democratic and free market ukraine. it's up to us and it's our duty to do it.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we agree on many points in our assessment of the situation in ukraine, and i take up what many of you said in the debate, namely that the political authorities now have the power to decide, including with respect for the institutions that have been created in ukraine, such as the constitutional court. you have to be able to make that decision without pressure. it is not appropriate at the moment for the european union to play any sort of mediating role, but it is first and foremost an internal matter where the responsible parties - the president and the prime minister - must approach each other and find a solution to this crisis. on the other hand, commissioner špidla made this very clear, and the european union has also shown a path of closer cooperation, namely that negotiations have been opened and that many steps towards economic and political development for ukraine are possible. that should be our path for the next few weeks. i mentioned that javier solana is in close contact with both groups. it is important that we do not stand aside, but that we remain, so to speak, neutral in relation to what others have to do in ukraine. i hope, however, that this perspective, which the european union has given to the ukrainian people, will be accepted by the citizens. i am glad to see that both political camps have not lost sight of the direction europe is taking and that there is agreement on this.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission broadly agrees with the european parliament's assessment of the current political crisis and welcomes the prudence shown by the european parliament in the current situation. we will continue to monitor the crisis and make our contribution by encouraging the ukrainian authorities to seek a lasting political compromise for the good of their country. as already emphasised, the commission remains firmly behind the negotiations on the new enlarged agreement and fully committed to ukraine as one of our key partners. we shall be following with interest the european parliament's further debate on ukraine and look forward to the final version of the kamiński report.
madam president! i'm asking for a motion under rule 167 of our rules of procedure for the debate on homophobia. the reason for this conclusion is that our house has been misled as to the reasons for this debate. we are here to talk about a bill that never was, that doesn't exist and that will never come to pass, according to a very clear statement by the polish prime minister. we are being asked to reflect on the statements of some polish politicians, which were corrected by the polish prime minister, who made it very clear that the polish government does not propose any form of discriminatory policy towards homosexual communities. i think that's enough to reject the proposal to discuss this because this discussion has no basis.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. aggressive behaviour towards homosexuals is a problem in many european societies. it's certainly not the most important problem. we also have a problem with this kind of behavior from government agencies, like the police, for example in germany, england, italy. however, it would never have occurred to me to debate this matter in the european parliament and to give advice. the member state governments know best how to deal with such cases. it is very unfortunate that this rule does not apply to some members, for example poland. there can only be one reason. the european parliament is being fooled by an extremist group of meps who are irritated by any word of polemic (applause) with homosexual demands or attitudes. i remind you that homosexuals are not exempt from the right to criticism. it's the foundation of democracy. this easy succumbing to homosexual censorship is becoming a trademark of our congregation. i assure you, it doesn't add to our credibility. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! a few remarks on behalf of the polish delegation to the alde group of liberal democrats. first, we do not recognize any form of discrimination and we are in favour of full tolerance in the matters that are the subject of our debate. secondly, we would like to emphasise that there is a big difference between non-discrimination in this area and the promotion of homosexual attitudes. tolerance is yes, non-discrimination is yes, but promotion is no, because promotion in this field is not a measure of respect for human rights. and finally, this is not a political struggle issue and should not be won as such. this is a moral problem, deeply rooted in the pluralism that must characterize the european union.
madam president! those who so willingly just now voted for the need for this debate so willingly and so quickly left this room, which is the best evidence that their intentions were not real, that they were artificial, political. this is an attempt to hunt down the government in a country that doesn't like the different options: liberals, leftists, leftists etc. i understand that, but - by god! - if in your countries in not so distant history thousands of piles were burning then all the refugees from these countries gathered in poland. in poland, jews were gathered from all over europe. poland is a symbol of tolerance. the attempt to tell the world and europe that poland is the main center of intolerance for homosexuals is a huge obscenity and a political lie, a cynical ploy that aims to fool public opinion in europe. i object to this kind of game because it is fundamentally false. (laughter) (applause)
madam president! every human being has the right to life and deserves respect and help. also the lost and wounded one who succumbed to homosexual tendencies. but the solution is not blind acceptance or intolerance but understanding and love. the solution is to help the suffering and heal them, which is what they expect from us. the acceptance of homosexuality as something natural and normal is the glorification of pain and brokenness. it's hypocritical and damaging political correctness. homosexual acts are against the natural law because they deprive a person of the gift of life. their propaganda hits the family and leads to pathology. my fellow europeans! instead of pointing the blade of unwarranted criticism at poland, you should be drawing on polish models of morality, tolerance and normality. it was in poland that the book "get straight: understanding and healing homosexuality" was published by richard cohen, who freed himself from homosexuality and is now a happy husband and father. let's use this testimony. the so-called human rights defenders who today raise their voices, exaggerating the problem, why are you silent about the demoralization in the media, about the discrimination against normal families, why are you turning a blind eye to the mass killing of babies in the womb? are you aware that by promoting a civilization of lies and death, you are leading europe to destruction?
mr. chairman, please! campaign against homophobia and lambda presented a report on the social situation of bisexual and homosexual people in poland for 2005 and 2006. the report gives a picture of the persecution. one in five homosexuals have been pushed or kicked. half of the subjects were insulted, harassed, blackmailed. recently, there has been an increase in persecution. of those who have experienced physical violence, nearly 42% have experienced it more than three times in the past year. i note with deep sadness that homosexual persons cannot count today on effective protection of their dignity by the institutions of the polish state governed by a conservative-nationalist-populist coalition. many statements by various government officials openly advocate an ideology of hatred, intolerance and discrimination against homosexual communities. that is why today's resolution is so important, my fellow poles, from the right! the european parliament remains for these people in poland a guardian of rights, a beacon of hope for the defence of fundamental civil rights and a dignified life. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! thank you so much for your patience. just today, polish mps from various political groups met with the polish border guard general, who is the liaison officer at our embassy in belgium. it has made us even more aware of the importance of the issues we are discussing today. i represent poland, the country which, next to finland, has the longest land border outside the european union. the problem of effective management of external borders through control and protection, combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings is therefore all the more important. the teams we are talking about will be all the more necessary as the union becomes an increasingly attractive economic haven for immigrants from several continents, including the former soviet union. i agree with my predecessor, mr coelho, who spoke of the greatest crisis the union is about to face. there is only one condition for the establishment of such rapid intervention teams - the full agreement, indeed the proposal, of the member state whose border is affected.
mr. chairman, please! the rapid response teams have the potential to become an effective instrument in the hands of the member states and frontex. this is nothing new for frontex. we've been through a lot of joint operations before. we need rapid reaction teams, provided that their use does not constitute a smokescreen for the primary responsibility for border control which, under the existing treaties, lies with the member states. it is therefore important that teams are actually used in crisis situations not foreseen in previous risk analyses. only then do the member states have the right and the duty to activate european solidarity mechanisms. i am well aware that the burden of controls at the union's external borders is distributed differently between member states. we have the southern countries with the difficult sea border and the countries with the long land border. the teams, together with the other elements of the integrated border management system, including the important external border fund, can contribute to increasing cooperation and coordination in the fight against illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. however, it expects frontex and rabits to take into account the rights and needs of people crossing the border in good faith. the increasingly better border services for this category of travellers should therefore also be coordinated. in the context of rabits, i would like to draw attention to the need to inform the public about what rapid reaction teams are and what their rights and obligations are when ordinary cross-border people come into contact with them, in order to avoid misunderstandings and uncertainties. we need an information campaign on this. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr deprez on the consensus reached on the creation of the teams and on the excellent report.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the light of eu law, control of the external borders of the european union remains the responsibility of the member states, including poland. the current possibilities for providing assistance at european level for border checks at external borders and for the protection of these borders should unfortunately be considered insufficient. we must not forget this, because the proper management of the european union's external borders is aimed at combating trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration on the one hand, and at preventing threats to the internal security of the member states, public policy, public health and international relations on the other. such control is therefore not only in the interest of the member state in whose territory it is carried out, but is equally important for all member states which have abolished border controls at internal borders. the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) has already been established by a council regulation. now we have to take it a step further. rapid intervention teams should be set up and deployed in the territory of the member state in need of such assistance, but not intended to provide long-term support. the agency should, however, be responsible for coordinating the composition, training and secondment of rapid border intervention teams. this approach will contribute to increasing solidarity and mutual assistance between member states.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. sound public finances are the basis for sustainable economic development. i am very pleased to see that in the last year we have seen a marked improvement in this respect in the european union. but the current good economic situation allows for even faster debt and deficit reduction. in this year's report, the european parliament therefore encourages member states to take advantage of the good economic climate to make the necessary adjustments in the public finance sector and to accelerate structural reforms, such as reforms of the labour market, the services sector and the reduction of administrative burdens on businesses. i congratulate mr. lauke on his excellent report and thank him for his cooperation. i would like to draw attention to four things. first, this year's report, in paragraph 26, encourages the european commission to examine the benefits of establishing independent national authorities responsible for setting annual deficit levels that would ensure that the budget is balanced in the medium term. i therefore ask commissioner almunia, through mr borg, to examine whether a fiscal policy council, independent of political pressure, would be a useful instrument in the fight against the deficit. in particular, it is a matter of making better use of good economic times to improve public finances. i think i agree with my predecessors on this. indeed, studies show that governments tend to run excessive deficits and that reforms are only undertaken when a crisis occurs. secondly, however, i would like to point out that we cannot agree with the wording of paragraph 20, which seeks to declare the incurrence of a new public debt unconstitutional. i would remind you that every government has the right to act within the framework set by the maastricht treaty, which allows a 60% level of public debt. of course, a debt that exceeds this level can be considered unconstitutional, and i would therefore support the amendment tabled by the alde group which thus marks this limit. third, the report underlines that the revised stability and growth pact is a key instrument for maintaining budgetary discipline in the member states. i agree with the author that the reform of the pact has increased both its flexibility and its effectiveness. we therefore call on the commission to monitor closely the member states' compliance with the rules of the pact. finally, parliament recommended that a uniform budgetary procedure be introduced in all member states. the single procedure would cover both a common timetable for preparing the budget and common assumptions in the field of basic macroeconomic parameters, uniformly estimated for the whole of the european union. i believe that these changes would not only strengthen budgetary discipline in the member states but also improve fiscal policy coordination within the union.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr lauk is a very insightful description of the situation and a clear lesson for the countries which have not yet joined the european monetary union. mr lauk rightly highlighted the main threats to the european union, namely the persisting high budget deficits and the inevitable increase in budgetary expenditure linked to the ageing of the union's countries. he also noted that the disaster could be prevented by accelerating the pace of economic growth. however, the report fails to address the fundamental question of how to achieve this, given that eu economies are less competitive with world leaders and that there is hardly any active family policy in the eu. the report by mr lauka makes it clear that the internal club of the union, the european monetary union, has no recipe for preventing the coming threats. he gave two examples of the avoidance of a fundamental issue facing the countries of the union. for example, in eu debates, relocation is not seen as an opportunity but as a threat to jobs in countries that produce more expensive goods by countries that produce them cheaper. in these debates, we often talk about the demographic situation, as if we didn't know that we were talking about a dramatic decline in the birth rate. so there's a lot of talk about the right to prevent pregnancy, the right to terminate a pregnancy, there's a lot of debate about homophobia - and today we had the third debate in the last two years. i ask where the debate on proactive family policy in the union is. only a rise in the birth rate can prevent this mysterious demographic situation from worsening. the representatives of the eu member states are eager to debate the maturity or immaturity of other countries, but for the countries that have committed to adopting the euro, this report is undoubtedly an important lesson.
mr. chairman, please! the rapporteur is to be commended for tackling an important issue - the seriousness of the threats to the member states of the union due to the progressive ageing of societies. in short, the words of appreciation are due to the rapporteur for the diagnosis made and the prognosis as to the possible development of the disease. however, the proposed therapy of reducing the budget deficit of the member states and of unifying the financial policies of the member states is totally opposed. the paradox is that this therapy is being proposed by a german member of parliament, a member of parliament from a country which does not respect the budget deficit and which, secondly, raises tax rates, for example by raising the vat rate. the therapy proposed by the rapporteur is controversial for a number of reasons. because of the lack of time, i will limit myself to two of them, which i think are the most important. first, only a strategy of actively promoting entrepreneurship, eliminating red tape, radically accelerating the financing of infrastructure investments, abandoning the costly policy of financing agriculture and allocating these funds to research and development and regional programmes can result in a solution to the pension financing dilemma. secondly, the union's single fiscal and budgetary policy is an attempt to put a strain on the finances of the new countries, to ignore their specific development characteristics and, consequently, to prevent the development gap from being closed. we therefore take the opposite view by not agreeing with the rapporteur's conclusions. the european union needs more freedom in the conduct of budgetary and fiscal policies by the member states, and this can solve the dilemma of the poor.
mr. chairman, please! as i take part in the debate on the report on public finances in the countries of the economic and monetary union in 2006, i would like to make the following observations. first, it is true that public finances in most eu countries improved significantly in 2006. however, i have serious doubts whether this improvement is due to the reform of the stability and growth pact, as the commission seems to suggest. i think it's more of a coincidence. secondly, despite the improvement, i do not think that the public finances of the individual member states are in a satisfactory state. despite the exceptional economic situation, only three euro area countries are in surplus. more than half of the euro area countries have a public debt above 60% of gdp. third, it is worth mentioning that the public finances of the new member states appear to be in a better state than those of the other countries, e.g. the average public debt in the euro area in 2006 was over 63% for the old 15 while it did not exceed the 60% threshold for the new 12. fourthly, and finally, i would like to point out that, despite the revision of the pact, the commission's conciliatory attitude towards the largest countries of the union has not changed. the commission has tolerated and appears to continue to tolerate significant deficits, and in particular the public debt of these countries. this contrasts with the very strict attitude of the commission towards smaller members, and in particular newly admitted countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on simplifying and rationalising the reporting of the practical implementation of the directives is of importance for employment policy. the emerging common labour market requires constant monitoring of the health and safety at work of our citizens in the countries of the union. different country conditions require a continuous process of monitoring compliance with the directives and periodic reviews of their suitability, effectiveness, transparency, cost and impact every five years. these evaluations, based on clear and transparent guidelines, should allow for improvements in the legal situation and the common safety and health policy. there is also a need to monitor on an ongoing basis the directives on safety and health at work and the impact of these directives on the health and safety strategy in the member states. the european agency for safety and health at work and the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions should play a significant role in this respect. i would like to thank mrs ilda figueiredo for her report.
mr president, switzerland is seen by many as a historic model of european integration - it is enough to mention jean-jacques rousseau and johannes von müller. but there is still the island of sonderfall, outside the area of the united europe that surrounds it on all sides. let us remember that it was the swiss themselves who, by a majority of 50.3% in the 1992 referendum, voted against their country joining the european economic area. i don't want to interfere in any way with the internal affairs of the confederacy. while i would like to emphasise the good cooperation between switzerland and the union in practically all areas, i hope that the tax matters, which are difficult, will also be resolved quickly. it's very necessary for the clarity of this collaboration. in particular, i would like to express my appreciation today, on behalf of the new member states, and among them my own country, for the result of the referendum held on 26 november last year, which approved the creation of a swiss financial instrument of one billion francs. these countries, in turn, have opened themselves up to the flow of capital from swiss investments. for example, in poland, imports from switzerland increased by 20% during that period, while exports were only 5% lower. i am confident that the swiss funds will be rationally used for innovative activities, including research, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and environmental protection and regional development. and i would like to conclude by saying that switzerland is particularly well regarded in the european union. according to my data, about 72% of europeans would very much like to see the swiss confederation in a common european home. maybe it's worth taking advantage of that positive attitude.
mr. chairman, please! switzerland has a lot of referendums and that's one of the reasons why i wouldn't want to be a canton of even such a nice country. switzerland is a rich country that doesn't need to be in the union and doesn't want to be in the union yet. at the same time, it is a strategic and good partner of the european union, and with a strategic and good partner, commissioner, it talks and negotiates, not initiates procedures. i agree with my colleague from the european people's party on this. the case of switzerland reminds me, as a polish member of parliament, of the unfortunate and so far unsuccessful attempts by some german politicians, as well as french politicians, such as mr nicolas sarkozy, to unify taxes within the european union, which would de facto lead to higher taxes in my country. there's no way that's going to happen. it is no wonder that the swiss are now complaining about brussels' interference in their country's internal affairs. the whole thing shows that the union should look after itself, reform its own economy so that it becomes truly competitive, without resorting to procedures, penalties and injunctions against third countries or its own members.
member of the commission. the european commission is concerned about the situation of disabled women, who are victims of double discrimination: on the grounds of gender and because of their disability. the different discrimination faced by women and young people with disabilities prevents them from living independently, as these barriers often prevent them from accessing education and the labour market. it is totally unacceptable that nearly 80% of disabled women are victims of assault. the risk of being sexually abused is four times higher for women with disabilities than for those without disabilities. the european union must protect the rights of these people and allow them effective access to all areas of protection. i would like to thank mrs herranz for taking the initiative in drawing up this report to raise public awareness of the dramatic situation to which i have just referred. in the context of the european year of equal opportunities for all, the adoption by this parliament of a resolution on the situation of disabled women in the european union is absolutely relevant. the draft resolution rightly mentions the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which was signed by the commission on behalf of the european community on the same day it was opened for signature, 30 march last. at least 22 member states have already signed up to this agreement. i would also like to point out that the commission inspired the specific provisions of the convention on the respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms of disabled women. the adoption of the resolution by this parliament is also fully in line with the european disability strategy, a strategy which contributes to the implementation of the measures mentioned in the report. the commission is already implementing the provisions of the directive against discrimination, particularly against disabled people who wish to have access to employment and vocational training. the new structural funds regulation also introduces the use of accessibility for disabled people as a selection criterion for projects. i also note the call on the commission to draw up legislation to guarantee the autonomy of women and men with disabilities. in this respect, the commission intends to launch an impact study to consider the possibility of proposing new legislation in this respect, based on article 13 of the treaty, which would allow the scope of the current directives to be extended. finally, the commission will shortly launch a study on the current situation of disabled women, taking into account the provisions of the united nations convention; this study will enable concrete actions to be defined on this basis, as well as the collection of data and information by the commission.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the attitude towards the weak, the sick and the disabled is the measure of the maturity of a society. therefore, all actions supporting disabled, sick or with adaptation difficulties not only prevent social exclusion or poverty, but also promote social integration, improve the living conditions and mental and physical health of people with disabilities, enabling them to live a full life. any action to increase information and awareness about disability, architectural adaptation, enabling education and the de-bureaucratisation of the aid system, together with increased resources, especially for women and children with disabilities, should be a priority in national and european programmes. improving access to the labour market, including through the internet, and using fiscal incentives to support the employment of disabled people with adjusted working hours, especially for mothers raising disabled children, would be important. equally important would be increased availability of institutions and control over the distribution of aid, the spread of rehabilitation services, psychological support, an increase in the number of certified therapists and addiction therapists in the provinces, or the inclusion of children in the appropriate health program, mainly children from rural and small town environments. however, helping and caring for disabled people, by promoting their physical and personal development, should not encourage self-centeredness. but the problem, especially in my country and in other poor countries that have become members of the european union, is not so much a lack of willingness to help people who are physically or mentally disabled in some way, but poverty and unemployment, lack of funds for public transportation and wheelchairs and other devices that, in combination with overcoming architectural barriers, would make it easier to move around. disability in poland affects almost 15% of the population, who face many problems on a daily basis despite the extensive network of ngos, the multitude of volunteers who want to devote their time to helping others. in poland, there are no schools for autistic children, there are no materials in braille for the blind, and the poor disabled cannot afford specially adapted cars. in addition, almost all the benefits for people who were already living in poverty, even extreme poverty associated with low pensions, were abolished. in particular, previous socialist governments have long made disability a macroeconomic priority, eliminating family allowances and severely restricting disability benefits, while adapting legislation to the european union, where neoliberal utility is paramount, rather than human worth and dignity. most children with intellectual disabilities are educated in special schools rather than in the general system, which is not conducive to integration. therefore, even the best written reports and reports on disability will remain a theory with no practical application in the face of the greed of the rich and the replacement of moral principles and values by market laws and the free flow of capital in a specific direction from the poor to the rich. we therefore call once again for solidarity, not just on paper in eu documents, but in decisions and actions, especially those who make decisions, those responsible for health and social protection.
mr president, i wish to propose that the word ‘welcomes’ be replaced with the word ‘notes’ in paragraph 150. the rest of the sentence would remain the same.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before we vote, i would like to make a brief comment. the content of the resolution does not correspond semantically to the concept of homophobia. the word in the title is misused.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution could be better or more precise. but concern for the image of our country cannot be an excuse for silence on the issue of discrimination based on sexual orientation. homosexuality is not a disease, as some of the polish participants in today's debate claim. homophobia is a disease that many societies suffer from, including poland. the resolution touches on a fundamental issue - the tragedy of many thousands of citizens in europe, including thousands of my fellow citizens. in poland, as in other member states, there is an atmosphere of hostility towards homosexuals. however, in no other member state or public figure do they express content that violates basic civil rights and, as such, the principles and values that underpin a democratic system. in poland, i regret to say, people with a homosexual orientation are harassed, insulted, and when they come out, they are met with verbal or even physical aggression. all this is happening with, if not the support, then certainly without the opposition of the ruling class. just as there is no place in a modern democracy for racism, anti-semitism, there can be no place for discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, not in the 21st century! i therefore, in good conscience, will vote in favour of the resolution on homophobia in europe, because it calls for the rights of those who still have many, and in particular in poland, who would like to have those rights taken away.
in writing. i vote against the resolution on homophobia in europe. i do not entirely agree with some of the wording of the european parliament's resolution. the text, based solely on the facts in poland, does not reflect the intentions and title of the resolution (resolution on homophobia in europe). homophobia is something we unfortunately encounter in the eu every day. the lack of mention of the violations of the rights of homosexuals in other european countries makes this document incomplete. fortunately, the words of politicians such as maciej giertych, jarosław kaczyński or ewa sowińska do not translate into concrete legislative actions. there are no draft laws that address the rights of homosexuals. however, i fear that may change. there is no agreement that teachers who promote homosexuality among students will be fired. such irresponsible statements offend those who wish to live in a free, tolerant and open poland. they are a threat to democracy and do not reflect the views of the majority of polish society.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the events of march have dramatically underlined the escalation of the long-simmering crisis in zimbabwe. the brutal treatment of peaceful protesters and opposition politicians, as well as the threats against western ambassadors, show a regime that has finally dropped the mask of the rule of law. president mugabe is fighting to the death to maintain his power. in view of the desolate economic situation - i can only recall 80% unemployment and over 1 700% inflation - and the increasing repression, the mood in the country is turning more and more openly against him. now it's not just the general population. his party, zanu-pf, is no longer united behind him either. his attempt at the party congress in december 2006 to postpone the presidential elections by two years to the date of the 2010 parliamentary elections was referred back to the committees and failed. in the past few weeks, the eu presidency has made a clear and prompt statement on the events in zimbabwe. two statements, dated 12 and 14 march, condemned the criminalisation of the peaceful prayer meeting in harare on 11 march and called for the release of those arrested and for legal and medical assistance. the german embassy in harare, in a note dated 13 march 2007, urged the zimbabwean government on behalf of all eu partners to respect the rule of law. the eu ambassadors on the ground have expressed to the government, in close coordination with each other, their readiness to provide personal assistance to those arrested and injured by the government at any time. the new arrests and ill-treatment of opposition members on 17 and 18 march and the imposition of a travel ban on two female opposition members who were seriously injured in the attacks on 11 march and who were seeking medical treatment in south africa were strongly condemned by the presidency of the council of the european union in a statement on 18 march. the injured opposition members were able to fly to south africa afterwards. the majority of the opposition members arrested were released. at the eu's request, the un human rights council focused on zimbabwe in its debate on 29 march. in a statement endorsed by 50 countries, the eu took a clear position on the current situation in zimbabwe and called on the mugabe government to respect the rule of law, respect human rights and cooperate with the un human rights mechanisms. we are all watching very closely the reactions of zimbabwe's neighbours. our embassies in the region are in intensive political dialogue with the governments of their host countries. we all agree in our analysis that there are growing signs that across the region - not least under pressure from civil society - solidarity with the mugabe regime is eroding. we are particularly hopeful that our african partners will now also openly show, for the first time, how important it is to them to solve the zimbabwean crisis. apart from isolated statements such as the comparison of zimbabwe with the sinking 'titanic' by zambian president mwanawasa, the change in sadc's course is particularly striking. their heads of government first acknowledged their regional responsibility in the zimbabwe conflict at a special summit on 28 and 29 march 2007. president mbeki has been given a clear mandate to initiate a dialogue between the government and the opposition. he is expected to be flanked in his activities by his tanzanian counterpart, kikwete, who is currently the chairman of the sadc political, security and defence committee. the sadc secretary-general will present a report on the economic situation in zimbabwe. the sadc's main demands to mugabe are that the 2008 presidential election be held on schedule and that the repression of the opposition be stopped. the zanu-pf central committee decided on 30 march to hold the presidential election in march 2008 and to postpone the parliamentary elections originally scheduled for 2010 to the same date in 2008. mugabe was elected without internal debate as the top candidate. at the same time, changes were announced that would improve the starting position of mugabe and his party in the run-up to the elections. these include the increase in electoral districts and their redistribution, the appointment, not direct election, of senate members in correlation to the strength of the parliamentary faction, and the fact that in the event of a vacancy in the presidency, the new president is to be chosen by parliament rather than by new elections. these new regulations have yet to be implemented by constitutional amendment. the government has not stopped using force against individual opposition members. it stigmatises members of the tsvangirai wing of the opposition mdc party as terrorists and thus attempts to drive a wedge into the opposition, united for the first time since the march riots. however, the government has refrained from banning or dissolving large gatherings such as the prayer meeting in the country's second-largest city. the ban on assembly and demonstration has also been lifted, except in some areas of harare. as early as late 2006, the zanu-pf party congress showed that mugabe was no longer uncontroversial. mugabe has since developed a "bunker mentality" which has manifested itself in the formation of parallel organisations such as the "youth militia" which is outside the military and police hierarchy. their impressive, even depressing, presence in front of the central committee meeting building certainly had an influence on the decision-making of the politburo members in favor of appointing mugabe as a presidential candidate. despite mugabe's tactical victory in the march 30th central committee meeting, which earned him the nomination for the 2008 presidential nomination and weakened his critics within the party, there seems to be a sort of end-time mood in zimbabwe. the eu has therefore started to reflect on the post-mugabe period, alongside the discussion of current developments. we have been dealing extensively with zimbabwe in the last few days, both at the level of the eu-africa working group and the eu-africa directors. the foreign ministers' council discussed the crisis in zimbabwe on monday. the council in its conclusions welcomed the sadc initiative and expressed its readiness to support it if called upon . he underlined his view that only a broad constructive dialogue could form the basis for genuine reform and national reconciliation in zimbabwe. he also stressed that the eu would continue to implement humanitarian measures that directly benefit the population. the sadc has called on the eu to lift sanctions in its communiqué following the special summit in march. we shall not be able to do so in view of the present situation on the ground. our policy must remain credible. we will - the council decided on monday - in response to the unrest in march, extend the sanctions list to include the police officers who bear the main responsibility for the current crisis and human rights violations. there is agreement among eu partners that a solution to the crisis in zimbabwe can only be achieved with african help. our african partners have explicitly asked the eu for patience following their political reversal in march. however, we shall continue to monitor closely whether and to what extent the sadc policy pursued is taking shape. but we know that we cannot just watch. the eu will have to position itself in the foreseeable future on the sadc initiative in terms of content. we will continue to respond to the events in zimbabwe with the necessary vigour. the eu cannot and will not remain silent on human rights violations.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission is very concerned about the current deterioration of the political and socio-economic situation in zimbabwe. in particular, we condemn the recent acts of violent repression against the opposition. the commission has also fully supported the statements issued by the german presidency condemning the recent violence, arrests and mistreatment of detainees. the government of zimbabwe was also called upon to release those detainees and to respect fundamental rights. the crisis should be resolved through dialogue with all political forces. last monday, the general affairs council also issued conclusions to this effect. in this context, the commission continues to attach great importance to enhanced dialogue with zimbabwe’s regional peers. we fully acknowledge the major role they can play in promoting national reconciliation in this country. the commission therefore welcomed the extraordinary summit of heads of states of the southern african development community (sadc), which took place on 28 and 29 march 2007 in dar es salaam. the regional leaders decided to engage in the resolution of the zimbabwe crisis by appointing the south african president, thabo mbeki, as a mediator. it was agreed with all the european member states that a high-level message would be delivered to sadc on the subject. firstly, to recognise the major role the organisation can play in the resolution of the crisis and, secondly, to give sadc real breathing space in its mediation efforts. we feel, therefore, that nothing should be done to jeopardise the sadc initiative and that the eu should be seen to be ready to follow sadc efforts to resolve the zimbabwean crisis. furthermore, it was agreed to make an effort to properly inform the region and africa at large of the content of eu measures, or sanctions, regarding zimbabwe. they consist of a visa ban for the zimbabwean leadership and the freezing of their assets, in addition to an arms embargo. trade, economic and essential aid cooperation has not been affected by the eu measures. in this sense, the level of aid committed to zimbabwe in 2006 alone was around eur 193 million: eur 86 million by the commission and eur 107 million by member states. this kind of assistance, for the direct benefit of the zimbabwean population, is due to be continued.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. if we talk about a country in our parliament too often, it is bad, because it means that the human rights situation in that country must be dramatic. that is the country that zimbabwe was, is and will be in the near future. the paradox is that this month marks the 27th anniversary of the independence of this country. unfortunately, it is independence without freedom. for example, a month and a half ago, an opposition rally was violently broken up, resulting in 2 people killed, 300 arrested. this is the political aspect which we often talk about most in parliament, but there is also the economic aspect, perhaps even more dramatic. 4.5 million people in zimbabwe are malnourished, and a third of them have been fed by the world food programme in the last few months. we're talking about a country where the average life expectancy is 35.5 years. zimbabwe is, as my predecessor mentioned, one of the world's leading producers of this type of waste. one fifth of the population is infected with hiv, and every week another 3,200 people are infected. zimbabwe has the highest rate of orphans in the world. unemployment in this country is 80%! also, 80% of the population lives below the poverty line! every month, several thousand people flee the country. already, over 30% of the population has emigrated to neighboring countries. zimbabwe is the only country in africa that has an economic recession. in the last decade, the country's economy has shrunk by 40 percent, and this year by another nearly 6 percent, and last year the average annual inflation rate rose to 2,200 percent. this year, it's probably going to be over 5000%! since 1998, agricultural production has fallen by 4/5! zimbabwe's two main industries, tobacco and gold mining, are on the verge of collapse. these are all statistics, tragic and telling, but i'm afraid that the dry numbers, the percentages and the figures will obscure the drama, the individual tragedies of millions of people. zimbabwe is far away, but let's remember ernest hemingway's words: "don't ask for whom the bell tolls - it tolls for you". zimbabwe is a country that has fallen into a black hole, disappearing before our eyes, economically and socially ceasing to exist, and the only manifestation of the functioning of the government is political repression. we can't keep quiet about this. we can't pretend that compassion alone, without political decisions, is enough. that's why this debate, that's why this resolution. a joint resolution, above and beyond.
madam president! we were all impressed by the zimbabwean people's fight for independence 27 years ago. zimbabwean society at that time was an example of colonial struggle for other third world countries. this respect for the people of zimbabwe is today our main moral imperative in supporting the zimbabwean people's struggle for democracy and the rule of law. exactly one month ago, during the plenary sessions of the european parliament, we saw on the television screens in this building the bloodied face of the leader of the democratic opposition, morgan tsvangirai. this is the true leader of the zimbabwean people today. the repressed leaders of the student movement, civil society, trade unions, the european union, the institutions, the european parliament must do everything now to help the people of zimbabwe, civil society, to restore democracy, freedom and the rule of law in that country. the role of south africa and president mbeki is particularly important in this process. the european parliament supports all efforts to promote democracy and the rule of law in zimbabwe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. it is good that a compromise resolution on human rights violations in russia has been found in this house, because it is important that parliament takes a common position on such a matter and speaks to both the russian public and to mr putin with one voice. for each of us, especially in these days when i think all of us who are supporters of democracy in russia and for whom democratic russia should be an important partner for europe, in these sad days when we have experienced the death of the first democratic president of russia, boris yeltsin, it is especially important for us to see that today's russia has not fulfilled, unfortunately, those dreams that we all shared when boris yeltsin entered the political scene of this country. unfortunately, these hopes have not been fulfilled and this must be said and this is what our resolution says. i would like to stress once again that i am glad that it is a compromise resolution between many different political groups. i have to say that for me, the images i saw on tv of the repression of the human rights demonstrations in russia were truly traumatic images, because they reminded me of the worst times, also in my country, when street demonstrations were brutally broken up by the police. i want to point out that this assessment of the brutality of the russian police is an assessment that has been - oddly enough! - shared by the russian ombudsman. and that is why our declaration calls on the russian duma, on our colleagues, russian parliamentarians, to set up a special committee to clarify this issue. however, madam president, while i am asking you to adopt this resolution, i would like to make an appeal from this place so that the russian citizens, who unfortunately today are largely deprived of access to true information, are aware that what we are doing is not an act of russophobia, as kremlin propaganda often portrays it. it's the opposite. what we do, the fight for human rights in russia, the fight for a democratic russia, is based on our deep sympathy for this country, on our deep respect for the great russian culture and the great russian people. we want him to enjoy the very freedoms we enjoy in the european union and i would like the european parliament to be the institution that will be a beacon for the russian people on the road to democracy.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. i want to start by paying tribute to boris yeltsin, the great leader of russia, one of the people who made democracy triumph over dictatorships in the second half of the 20th century. yeltsin represented the real russia, the russia of civil society, the russia of democracy, the russia of the rule of law. this week in strasbourg, there was a special meeting of the subcommittee on human rights of the foreign affairs committee, where we have been carefully interviewing witnesses to what is happening in russia at the moment. the consensus is that russia is heading in a dangerous direction. what is most important for the european parliament at the moment is to closely monitor the state of play of the upcoming elections to the duma in december this year and the presidential elections next year. we must do everything we can to bring russian civil society, russian democracy closer together, to help these institutions, so that these elections are truly free, fair and free from fraud.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. what's happening in russia is very sad. we see the repression of attempts to democratize russia, we see the repression of demonstrations, of freedom of speech. but we have to realize that russia has no democratic traditions, that those who tried to democratize russia even in the past, like alexander i, had to give up, or in more recent times, like boris yeltsin, when he left this world, are widely criticized. we have to realize that in russia, in the polls, more people are demanding order than democracy. and so, when we support everything that is good in russia, that gives hope, we have to realize that when we make a deal with the russian government, we make a deal with a government that is guided by values other than european values. russia does not have, does not know not only internal democracy, but also does not know normal civilized customs in external relations. and this should be a warning to all those who want to build the future of europe in the hope that russia will be a solidary partner.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. the repression of the opposition, the violent suppression of peaceful demonstrations, the restriction of freedom of expression, the violation of human rights are disturbing and reprehensible phenomena, no matter in which country they occur. unfortunately, this charge can be levelled against all the powers of today, those of the east and those of the west, who claim the right of world domination, who want to be the world's judges, policemen and guardians of morality. today, russia's denunciation of anti-democratic practices and human rights violations can be summed up in the phrase: 'the pot boils before the kettle'. the persecution of political opponents, of national and religious minorities, the impeding of religious practices is a political reality in many parts of the world, although often disguised in media lies. above all, the fundamental right of every human being, the right to life from conception to natural death, is being violated all over the world, both in russia and in the european union. there are no innocents in this matter! this crime is the root of all evil!
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you again for giving me the opportunity to participate in the debate and to speak here for the second time as german human rights commissioner. we all watched with great concern the events of 14 and 15 april in moscow and st petersburg. many wonder whether these developments pose a threat to freedom of assembly in russia. the russian constitution guarantees the right of russian citizens to assemble peacefully and without weapons, to hold rallies and demonstrations, marches and vigils. this is clearly in contradiction with the way the russian authorities have recently dealt with protesters in moscow, st. petersburg and nizhny novgorod. garry kasparov told me about these procedures in a personal phone call. in addition, the demonstrations of april 14 and 15 differ from previous marches in the harsher response of the militia and in the fact that this time there were also temporary arrests of accredited journalists and attacks on these journalists. the coverage of some newspapers was quite critical after the events. some newspapers spoke of "meat from the mouths of dissenters" (kommersant) or "all power to the omon" (moscow komsomolez), as well as "besieged fortress and unprecedented hardship" (novaya isvestia). however, there were also reports that downplayed the events. a similar picture was seen in the russian government's reaction. while some government agencies defended the action, for example, human rights commissioner lukin admitted that the police had significantly exceeded their authority. the governor of st. petersburg, matviyenko, has ordered that all complaints of abuse by russian police units be investigated. the same is being demanded by sergei yastrzhemsky, the russian president's adviser on eu affairs. and ella pamfilova, the chairwoman of the chamber of commerce, pointed out that the actions of the militia have damaged russia's global reputation. the german government has also reacted to these events and publicly expressed its concern on 16 april in a statement by the eu presidency. the deputy government spokesman thomas steg also expressed concern at the excessive use of force over the weekend. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules. the german government expects the russian side to provide a full explanation of the events. the german embassy in moscow was immediately informed at a high level after the events in moscow and st. petersburg and demanded an immediate and complete clarification. we will of course also be addressing the situation of freedom of expression and assembly to the russian side at the eu-russia human rights consultations on 3 may. the development of the human rights situation in russia must continue to be followed with great attention. the european union is also committed to the principle of non-discrimination, and in particular to freedom of expression and assembly and free and fair access to the media. respect for these fundamental rights is particularly important in view of the forthcoming elections in russia. we will make it clear to russia that it is in russia's own interest to do everything possible to strengthen freedom of expression and assembly and not to weaken it further. i believe that the values and human rights on which europe is founded were created in large part by russian intellectuals and artists, and we should remember this together and ensure that this path is followed and not another. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. madam president, the commission is also concerned at the disproportionate use of force by russian law enforcement agencies against peaceful demonstrators and journalists, notably in moscow and st petersburg on 14 and 15 april. we are also concerned at a number of arbitrary detentions made at the same opposition protests. freedom of expression and freedom of assembly – including the holding of demonstrations – are fundamental human rights. they are the cornerstones of pluralistic democracy. russia has committed itself to respecting those freedoms through its membership of the un, the osce and the council of europe. in the period leading up to the russian parliamentary and presidential elections, that respect is all the more crucial. the eu raised the above-mentioned concerns in a presidency statement on 16 april. we note that the deputy presidential spokesman publicly stated that some over-reaction by riot police had taken place. the commission will continue to follow developments in the pre-election period in russia closely. we will also continue to raise these issues in our bilateral talks with the russian authorities, for example in the forthcoming regular eu-russia human rights consultations on 2 and 3 may.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. there are journalists who do their jobs better and worse, and there are media that do their jobs better and worse. alan johnston was a good journalist in a well-known, popular and respected medium, the bbc. alan johnston was kidnapped despite or because he wanted to work for the very people he worked for, the people of the middle east, who are in such a tragic situation today. he worked for them because he was informing the world about this situation, and in this way, by providing information, he was also allowing us, the politicians, to try to solve this situation, which unfortunately we have very little control over. madam president! kidnapping, terrorism, murder are unfortunately the phenomena of today's world, a world in which there are no longer any rules, even if you can say rules of warfare. these wars are fought in the most wicked way. alan johnston was a victim. in a sense, we are all victims of it. i hope the appropriate authorities will do everything possible to secure his release.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the situation in the philippines is of deep concern to us. in two weeks there will be elections, some of them will elect new senators, and unfortunately once again in the philippines, what happens is that while in other countries the upcoming elections are a kind of celebration of democracy, even if they cause tensions, they give something of vitality, in the philippines for more than half a year, and i follow this closely, the press is only writing about how many people will die, how much violence will accompany these upcoming elections. it's a bad sign for this country. i want to say that in the philippines, and i was there this year, i tried to get acquainted with the situation, the voice of the european union is listened to very carefully and it is good that our parliament considers very negatively all acts of violence accompanying the political process. we must very clearly demand that the philippine government step up its efforts to ensure that political murder is not a permanent feature of the election campaign in this country, and this is unfortunately a very drastic example of the political landscape in this beautiful country that deserves to live in a democracy like we do. i am glad to see that there are many members in the european parliament who share this view and support our joint declaration.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i have the honour to present to you the report of my own initiative from the committee on regional development on the contribution of future regional policy to the european union's innovation capacity. today, the community has two fundamental objectives in regional policy: to strengthen cohesion in all its dimensions and to promote and develop pro-innovation activities. it is not a trivial statement to say that basically everything that happens in the european union happens in some region, in some town, in some village. so it is not here, and more specifically, not just in brussels or strasbourg, that our future is decided. at present, about two thirds of community law is implemented at regional and local level. this report, which we have discussed very fruitfully in the committee on regional development, is addressed to the member states and the european commission, but above all to regional and local authorities. it is also addressed to other actors, in particular academic centres, research centres and small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be very effective flexible vehicles for innovation. regional policy cannot be reduced to the approval of projects and the better or worse management of the structural funds, but must be part of building the european union's innovation capacity. these capacities must be understood as complementary activities of a research-technological, legal-financial, economic-commercial, organisational-administrative, energy-environmental, educational, social, health-related and cultural nature, in other words, covering the whole range of activities. everywhere we go, we can do something new, something better. i would like to stress that each of these aspects has a regional dimension. this is to serve the real cohesion of the union, to be a testimony to the harmonized sustainable development and the community solidarity we have spoken of many times here. this is also intended to reduce the existing, and clearly disparate, development between the various regions of the union. we should also remember that a well-managed regional policy encourages innovation, which in turn leads to further development. so this is a very beneficial feedback loop. i do not want to repeat the report's assertions here. and i would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you who have helped shape it. i thank my colleagues here in brussels, strasbourg and poland. i thank all the members of the commission, and especially the coordinators, for the fruitful discussion and the amendments. i thank the representatives of the european commission, the committee of the regions and the presidency. it was very creative, as was mr andria's report (e.g. the supplement by alfonso andria?). it should be noted that of all the regions in the union, only 21 regions, i.e. less than 10%, have r & d expenditure above 3% of gdp. if we are to implement the lisbon strategy, then a more active contribution from the regional level is necessary. the other point i wanted to make is that we need to have universal and equal access to education at all levels, including university. this is the key to the future development of the community. yesterday, in this room, nobel prize winner timothy hunt lamented that in the ranking of the top 20 universities in the world, 15 are american, 1 is japanese, 3 are british and 1 is swiss. it's a signal of what we need to do as a community. the low-cost internet access, the financial tools, the rural areas, the innovation criteria of the regions also play a very important role. and the others are awake. we're debating this, but every day, 25,000 new citizens are born in china, 31,000 in india, and the population of europe is declining. our innovation must also include family issues. let's not waste time, money or energy, let's reach for solutions, they are not easy, but who said that only easy problems should be solved?
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to draw attention to two points in this debate. first, the european charter for housing defines housing as a basic need and a fundamental social right underpinning the european social model. it is therefore good that the european regional development fund for the period 2007-2013 provides support for housing in the new member states, where the housing needs of the younger generation of citizens are particularly high. the difficult situation on the housing market in these countries is aggravated by the rapid increase in house prices of several tens of per cent per year due to the objective process of equalising property prices in the old and new member states. secondly, the impact of regional policy on innovation in the european union is limited by the limited resources allocated to this purpose by the union and other member states. the total union budget is just 1% of the community's gdp, of which less than 10% is spent on research and development. moreover, the average expenditure on this purpose in the union countries is less than 2%, whereas in the most developed countries of the world it is many times higher, so that the gap in this respect is widening rather than narrowing. to increase the level of spending to this end significantly, additional efforts by the union itself, additional resources from national budgets, but also financing of innovation from regional and local budgets and private sector spending are needed.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr janowski on a very good report. the issues it addresses are of the utmost importance for the future of the union and its role in the world economy. but the fundamental question is: with the current level of research expenditure in the union and the current growth in gross domestic product in the community, can we compete with the best developing countries in the world? in the european union, has ideology, like communism, not taken precedence over sound economic processes? the continuing restrictions imposed by this body of estimates do not create the conditions for the dynamic development of our economies. innovation cannot be programmed, but it can be created in such a way that societies actively inspire it. if we do not act and remove the burden of red tape from the union, we will not achieve the lisbon strategy's aim of making the community's economy the most competitive in the world by 2010.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal to integrate housing into the european union's regional policy should be welcomed. the housing problem affects many member states and it is time to take action at a pan-european level. it is a fundamental right of citizens to live in dignity in their own homes, but it also stifles their social and economic potential. it is therefore impossible to speak seriously about solidarity policy and the lisbon strategy without presenting a package of solutions. it is important to note that the division of the population into areas with more and less wealth and areas with less and less wealth, as well as the problem of homelessness, will continue to grow. with an ageing european population and a growing productive economy, an increasing influx of immigrants is inevitable and will largely divide society. the regulation of housing would make it possible to prevent these negative phenomena, which are a disgrace to the european union, in a significant way. we have been talking about innovation in the european union for years in different aspects and at different institutional levels. what can we do to make sure that this time it doesn't end with empty words and empty promises? implementing innovation at a regional level gives every citizen the chance to feel that innovation can improve their living conditions and quality of life. it's a hard road, but it may be the only way to put the right ideas into practice and into practice.
mr. chairman, please! pro-innovation policy depends on a broadly available pro-innovation education, on advanced scientific research, on a well-functioning single market, on the synergy effect of enlargement, on a community patent-licensing strategy, on the creation of a european innovation centre, a technology institute, on the creative implementation of european union legislation on substances, energy, the environment, etc. the regional dimension of innovation, especially through the regional development funds, is mainly about creating specialised knowledge areas in the regions that will be able to develop interregional cooperation in the exchange of innovation and experience in implementing the lisbon strategy, and will be able to attract specialists from outside the regions to collaborate, and will be able to exploit local innovation potential, for example in the very important area discussed here today, the thermal modernisation of large-scale buildings, and other issues such as tourism. i would like to congratulate mr janowski on his report.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is proof that the european parliament feels a shared responsibility for the implementation of cohesion policy as one of the community policies. the european parliament not only co-drafts legislation, but also takes part in the implementation of the action. it pays particular attention to, and supports, the commission in emphasising the role of the integrated approach. the european parliament points out that cohesion policy is not just a system of subsidies, but a deliberate support not only for infrastructure investments but also for various types of innovative activities. the regulations already adopted should also be used to promote housing, which is one of the engines of economic development and a means of raising living standards and preserving cultural heritage. today's debate shows that regional policy, as it is constantly being modified, cohesion policy, should be regarded as one of the main policies of the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to thank you for this interesting debate. you have made it clear that innovation is not an end in itself. in my report, i also talked about innovation in housing. so thank you, mr. andrea, for pointing this out. the regional innovation strategies that the commissioner has spoken about will be very important. we're going to be very careful about what we measure this innovation by. the public-private partnership, which you have also emphasised, is all proof to me that the work we have done together has not been in vain. mr van nistelrooy also emphasized this when he spoke of the poles, the points that connect the whole. and colleagues on this side of the room have also talked about it in terms of social aspects. thank you again for a very constructive debate.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the retrofitting of community-registered lorries with passenger side mirrors (com ((2006) 0570 c6-0332/2006 2006/0183 cod)) mr paolo costa actually pointed out that equipping every truck registered after 2000 with mirrors to eliminate the dead-field effect would save over a thousand lives by 2020. without this obligation, and in accordance with the 2003 directive, which recommends retrofitting of trucks from 2007, the complete elimination of cars without wide-angle mirrors would not take place until 2023, which would significantly delay the work. the financing of additional mirrors was also well presented. the cost of retrofitting each vehicle should not exceed eur 100 to 150, which is the equivalent of one refuelling. i also agree with the proposal to carry out studies to determine whether other vehicles, such as vans and other vans, should also be fitted with this type of mirror.
mr. chairman, please! the debate that took place in the european parliament before the eu-russia summit was an example of our coherence and unity. it was stressed that the union would defend the interests of each member state in its relations with russia, most often citing the example of estonia and recalling the russian embargo on polish agricultural products. however, it was not mentioned that some countries of the union are negotiating their interests with russia individually behind the backs of other countries of the union, ignoring its interests. instead, much of the attention and criticism was directed at the whole of russia, without attempting to separate the role of the rulers who impose such policies from the average russian citizen who is subject to media manipulation. it is in the interests of europe, russia and the world to win over the russian people to values such as freedom, human rights, democracy and international cooperation on an equal footing.
in writing. mr president, i vote in favour of the report by mr philippe kaczmarek on the eu strategy for africa: a regional political partnership of the european union for peace, security and development in the horn of africa. the rapporteur rightly stressed the need to find solutions that would allow the stabilisation of the conflict-torn horn of africa region, where five out of seven countries remain at war with their neighbours. the proposal by the rapporteur to appoint a european union representative for the horn of africa to coordinate eu initiatives in this region is welcome. the initiative to the council and the commission to start a process of consultation with other parties involved in the region to organise a general conference to address security issues in all the countries of the horn of africa is also welcome. mep filip kaczmarek stresses that the concentration and coordination of initiatives and cooperation in the region could be of value in addressing the issue of illegal refugee flows, border security, food and environmental security, arms control, education and infrastructure development and the establishment of political dialogue between the countries of the horn of africa.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the contribution of future regional policy to the innovation capacity of the european union regional policy within the framework of the european union's innovation capacity should combine the community's cohesion with the need to act pro-innovation. however, without concrete solutions, innovation, and in particular the ambitious challenges set out in the lisbon strategy, will remain on paper, as exemplified by the achievements of individual countries in implementing the lisbon strategy. it should be noted that the eu is not only competing economically with the us, but also with china, india and other countries. the effects of introducing the assumptions of innovation will take many years to be seen, and most of us may not be on the board today. other decision-makers will benefit from the success of this policy, and decisions in this area require the foresight that citizens expect from us.
ladies and gentlemen! we're voting on the roaming directive in two days. i would like to emphasize that this is one of those directives that concerns every citizen of the european union, because most citizens of the european union have mobile phones. the adoption of the directive will certainly be seen as a great success - but it seems to be only one small step forward. we've bounced back, we're just trying to be more friendly to our citizens. i would say that roaming should be the subject of a wider debate, because in germany, for example, there are about 100 million people who are roaming. and small countries like lithuania, latvia, estonia -- for them, roaming is, let's say, roaming for a few million people. this is unfair and therefore, in my view, despite the great step that the adoption of the roaming directive will make, we should think about the prospect of how to remove the barriers to roaming between countries.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the international competition for the thematic organization of expo 2012 is entering the decisive phase. the decision will be made in paris in november of this year. three countries qualified for the final stage of the competition: south korea from asia, morocco from africa, and poland from europe. my city of wroclaw is the representative of europe. i would like to make a plea for european solidarity and call for the support of this, the only european, candidate from all the 27 member states of the union with a right to vote. it would be a demonstration of the european solidarity that is so much talked about in the european parliament. wrocław's victory, and therefore my city and country, also means that many europeans will have a much better chance of seeing this fascinating exhibition, which will be closer to poland than to korea. i therefore ask you to support our candidacy.
the european union showed its unity at the samara summit. this is encouraging and gives hope for the future, but the question is whether such a policy will be sustainable in the future. will the vast energy resources that russia possesses not allow, will they not create the conditions for dividing the european union into better and worse partners according to russian criteria? do we have such short memories and forget about the gas pipeline being built under the baltic sea? it is a pity that there was no unity in the european union on this issue, but the interests of the individual member states were too great and too divergent to achieve unity on the pipeline. too often we talk about unity, compromise, when it's convenient for us. this does not bode well for the future of the constitutional treaty for the european union. but it's worth celebrating what we've accomplished.
madam president! one of the pillars of the european union is the principle of multilingualism. it means that each of the 23 official languages has the same status (is equal to the others) and that citizens have the right to information about the european union in their mother tongue. the commission's current practice of spending money on information policy is contrary to this principle. the euronews television network, for example, is supported by the european union budget, which is made up of all the member states, and broadcasts in only six official languages. i think we have to be firm and consistent on multilingualism, and no language should be discriminated against. it is our duty to care for the national languages of europe, because they represent our identity, our richness and our beauty in diversity.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the life+ environment instrument, i would like to draw attention to the following points: firstly, the life+ instrument for 2007-2013 is a continuation of most of the programmes already implemented by the directorate-general for environment, such as the life 3 programme, the programme supporting sustainable urban development or the ngo programme. secondly, it is good that, as a result of the conciliation procedure, parliament has succeeded in convincing the council to have the programme managed centrally by the european commission, as has been the case so far. thirdly, it is also worth noting that parliament's position was taken into account and that the appropriations for the instrument were increased by eur 40 million. fourthly, the council also took into account the parliament's position that at least 50% of the life+ budget will be allocated to projects for the protection of nature and biodiversity. fifth, it was also agreed that at least 15% of the life+ budget would be allocated to transnational projects. since the majority of the key amendments of the european parliament have been accepted in the conciliation procedure, the uen group will vote in favour of this report. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and all those who have been so effective in the conciliation procedure.
madam president! i would like to thank mrs isler béguin for her report on the financial instrument for the environment (life+). the text of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council has been agreed by the conciliation committee. the regulation is a good funding instrument and is intended to serve the welfare of nature in the european union countries. the fund will be used to a large extent to mitigate changes that occur as a result of the greenhouse effect, drought, floods, and that are not conducive to forests, nature and biodiversity. the directive rightly points out that this money cannot be used for administrative expenditure not directly related to the implementation of the life+ tasks. the oversight of life+ expenditure by the european parliament will ensure that it is spent correctly in the most relevant areas. the wide range of activities with limited resources requires their continuous monitoring. the implementation of all projects brings added value to the european community. there is also a need to increase the appropriations for this programme as the circumstances become favourable. i believe that, if the regulation is implemented well, the life+ programme will contribute to the objectives pursued. at the same time, i would like to thank all those who have worked so effectively in the conciliation committee.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. from the earliest times to the present day, humans have been confronted with aggression and violence on a daily basis, which is a huge health problem, testifying not only to disease, mental disorders and personality, but to the action of personal evil. the roots of violence can be traced back to early childhood, aided by innate factors, illnesses, and, above all, a poor upbringing without ethical and moral principles that stimulates the development of narcissism and self-centeredness. the fight against violence must be directed not only at physical violence but also at the no less traumatic and even more widespread psychological violence that is present not only in private and everyday life but also in the various lobbies, pressure groups that are increasingly appearing in the political field. funding should be used to prevent violence through empathic behavior education, not just to reduce the effects of violence.
mr. chairman, please! since its establishment in 1997, the daphne programme has funded more than 370 projects supporting ngos, institutions and associations working to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women. the third edition of daphne has a budget of almost €117 million over the next seven years. the council welcomed the fact that it had decided to take account of most of parliament's amendments at first reading, in particular those which provide for a reduction in red tape and the provision of technical assistance to applicants. the european parliament will also be responsible for the continuation of the very efficient special hotline for victims of violence and for the establishment of a team of experts to provide advice and assistance to victims. the daphne iii objectives, such as supporting a common policy on public health protection, combating domestic violence, protecting children's rights and combating trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation, deserve special support. in this context, the european commission should consider as soon as possible the proposals of the parliament and the council for the establishment of a year against violence against children, young people and women. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs lissy gröner.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. the committee on regional development has recently produced several important own-initiative reports. today we will debate the document prepared by mrs. pleguezuelos. i would like to take this opportunity to thank her for her work on behalf of the uen group. we've talked about the need for community consistency many times. cohesion means first and foremost closing the gap between the richest and poorest regions. the implementation of this policy is always linked to intra-eu solidarity. this is worth remembering, given that some eur 310 billion is earmarked for regional policy in the current financial perspective. that's almost 36% of the eu's spending. this is our taxpayers' money and it must be used as rationally as possible. it is therefore important to emphasise the need to develop an integrated structural policy, combining the effects of the structural funds and the cohesion fund with the other union policies. the commissioner mentioned here the scientific research, the seventh programme. full cooperation between the union institutions, the member states and regional authorities must be ensured, while recognising the specificities of each region, taking into account both economically backward territories and areas with difficult geographical or social conditions. it's not about giving everyone equal, it's about promoting equality of opportunity. in particular, equal opportunities in education, health care, environmental protection. this equality must also include persons with disabilities. the achievement of a harmonious development of urban areas, where about 80% of the union's population live, deserves special attention. rural areas also need to be treated appropriately so that rural living conditions do not deviate too far from urban ones. the need to take account of family aspects and family policy in all union action should not be overlooked. i am glad that we see the value of interregional and cross-border cooperation. so we need a policy of solidarity in equalisation and a policy of solidarity in sustainable development. we also have practical questions: what is the metric to measure cohesion? it is good that we do not want to limit ourselves to gdp per capita. i am convinced that this report will not only contribute to an interesting debate but will also make it possible to use the experience gained and the good practices developed so far to achieve real economic, social, territorial and cultural cohesion in europe. we deserve this.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen of the house! first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs pleguezuelos on her report, which tackles the important issue of the effectiveness of structural policies. the european union's cohesion policy takes advantage of structural policies and is a fixed, permanent component of the european union's policies, while its content and methods change. it is worth emphasising that the lisbon strategy is such a transitional, temporary policy. cohesion policy, on the other hand, is a permanent and permanent policy of the european union. cohesion policy is effective when it achieves its objectives and thus increases economic, social and territorial cohesion. however, this effectiveness depends on several factors. it is necessary to ensure the complementarity of the various policies of the european union, both community and national, coordinated at union level. secondly, cohesion policy should be adapted to the current development challenges of the european union, for example by reducing disparities between regions in terms of the development of the knowledge-based economy and the level of innovation. thirdly, cohesion policy requires the involvement of all types of public authorities in its implementation and therefore the way in which the author refers to government, regional and local authorities in many places in the report should be appreciated. multi-level governance is a necessary condition for an effective cohesion policy. the debate on the report coincides with the presentation of the fourth cohesion report by the european commission and provides a useful policy recommendation for analysing the data contained in the report and for drawing conclusions from the analyses contained therein.
i would like to draw your attention to the following points in relation to the new cohesion policy. first, cohesion policy in the early programming period is particularly important for the new member states, since it is to them that most of the structural funds are directed. secondly, these countries set ambitious targets for their development strategies. for example, poland has set an employment target of 60% from the current 50% as one of its strategic targets in its national strategic reference framework. thirdly, it is important to achieve a territorial dimension of cohesion and, above all, to reduce the disparities between rural and urban development. fourthly, we need new measures of the impact of cohesion policy. gdp per capita is not enough. it is very common, for example in poland in the mazowieckie voivodeship, where i come from, that the level of gdp is close to the eu average, and many areas of this voivodeship are characterised by very high backwardness.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. globalisation is first and foremost a european opportunity. i thank the rapporteur very much for bringing this up in his report. i would like to draw particular attention to our colleagues on the left, who are the main authors of the association of free trade with unemployment and social devastation. to avoid the bad consequences of global trade, to win global competition, we need to put our own resource allocation system in order. today it is distorted by the excessive regulation and regulation of the common market within the european union itself. we are partly missing this opportunity in the area of services and labour markets in the european union. we are still not taking full advantage of the competitive advantages that lie behind the euro-atlantic common market. instead of being intimidated by cheaper services, labor and tax competition, let's take advantage of them for our common good, let's enter the race and win it by working hard.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the european commission should inform not only parliament but also the citizens of the union more about its proposed trade policy. today, europeans in different countries are afraid of the wto and what it does. the principle that free trade policies will contribute to economic growth, job creation and sustainable development in the world needs to be better explained to citizens. provided it's more sustainable, more fair, more partnership-based. and, very importantly for us, inspired by our european social and environmental standards. on the one hand, free markets, free competition. on the other hand, there are european environmental and social standards. today, it's a utopia, but these two values must meet. and that includes you, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i want to draw attention to three points in this debate. first, the development of trade covered by the report cannot be an objective in itself, but must be seen in terms of its impact on economic growth, including european output, on trends in the european labour market and on the sustainability of the european union as a whole. secondly, the report's proposals for open markets are correct, but on the basis of reciprocity and respect for the principles of fair competition. the european union very often opens its market when foreign partners have no intention of respecting reciprocity, and especially the principles of fair competition. thirdly, it is particularly important to respect these rules in trade in food products, where the failure of the union's partners to comply with fair competition is leading to the reduction and often the elimination of many areas of agricultural production in europe. re-establishing them in the future, when foreign partners are already dictating prices, could be very costly for europe, if possible.
member of the commission. mr president, we have heard some very well informed and very intelligent contributions to this debate. i appreciate them and thank those who have taken the trouble to speak. i think that the spirit, if not absolutely every letter, both of my own approach and of mr caspary’s report was captured by mr fjellner when he said that free trade spreads prosperity while protectionism spreads poverty. broadly speaking, i think that is correct but i would say that free trade is a necessary but insufficient condition to bring about economic development and poverty alleviation in some of the more needy countries of the world. i agree with those, including mr désir, who would like the commission to operate a principle of proportionate reciprocity as far as developing countries are concerned. i agree with that and my approach reflects the capacities of the developing country markets in question. the eu asks of trading partners only what their level of development allows but, as others have pointed out, the sorts of economies that are seeking free trade agreements with us – korea, the asean countries, india – could hardly be described as typical least-developed countries in the world. mr arif focused on the so-called singapore issues, as did mr désir himself. all i can say in this regard is that, if partner countries decide that they wish to discuss these issues bilaterally with the european union as a means of promoting their own development and creating economic opportunities for them, why should they not do so? i do not think it is for us in europe to tell developing countries and emerging economies that they should not be addressing issues like investment, competition and transparency in government procurement. one or two honourable members have alluded to trade defence. mr caspary did at the outset and mr guardans cambó has done so subsequently, as has mrs saïfi. there is no question in my mind of removing europe’s right of recourse to anti-dumping measures. trade defence instruments are a vital way of ensuring fair trade where goods have been produced in conditions of subsidy or where price distortion is taking place. of course that should not be confused with the ordinary low-cost advantages in trade for many developing countries. our purpose in using trade defence instruments is not to protect european business from fair low-cost competition. it is true that from time to time i sometimes encounter those seeking use of tdi because they are afraid of competition, not because they want to engage fairly in competition. but i think that a periodic review allows us to ensure that public confidence in these instruments is maintained and to make sure that, if necessary, these instruments can change in order to reflect a changing world. that is all we are doing. i should like to go back to one or two points that have been made. as regards the question of services liberalisation, i have quite a lot of sympathy with mr kamall’s point. yes, we will be looking at market opening in the services sector in our bilateral fta negotiations, but this will be a negotiation where our partners will maintain the right to regulate their services sectors and their right to decide whether or not to open public services sectors. that is for them to decide. it is not for us to impose. i am also glad that one or two honourable members have focused on the issue of labour conditions, social conditions and environmental conditions amongst our trading partners. i passionately believe that sustainable development, which touches on all those issues, is an overarching objective for trade policy as well. one trade and environment issue that we have pursued vigorously in the doha talks, but which some countries have opposed, is lowering tariffs on environmental goods. many environmental problems could be addressed by helping this trade. in future ftas we will also continue to include commitments to standards at the workplace. honourable members will know that we run into some opposition from our negotiating partners in respect of these conditions. they see them not as a way of levering up standards but as a way for those in the developed world to use new pretexts to keep their markets closed to the goods and services being exported from developing countries. so it important for us to keep a balance in these matters and certainly, as far as these issues are concerned, i strongly believe that we should be using the pressure that we have at our disposal by means of incentives, not sanctions. mr markov and mrs mann both touched on the issue of the role of the european parliament. i have always been interested in and committed to close cooperation with the european parliament in the context of the framework agreement that we have. wherever possible we extend our participation with the parliament on trade matters. that is why we have shared with parliament the negotiating directives for the ftas in an entirely transparent way. i would like just to touch on something that mr papastamkos said. in addition to his reference to our pursuit of zero taxes for an agreed list of environmental goods, i believe and i accept that we need to examine and find a way to deal with the free-rider issue in respect of climate-friendly policies and in connection with the kyoto protocol. in the long term this is going to become an increasingly important feature of the climate change debate. i think it is premature to think of a carbon tax. in my view, there are very many practical as well as legal difficulties in pursuing that specific idea. we must be careful that any climate-friendly policies and instruments that we might develop in the future do not become protectionist instruments. however, i entirely accept that the time has come for us to look carefully at these issues, because they are going to become increasingly relevant in the long term. i should like to thank all those honourable members who have spoken and contributed so well to this debate. i look forward to continuing and strong cooperation between myself and my services and this parliament.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by david martin, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the european parliament's draft resolution on eu aid for trade (2006/2236 (ini)) (a6-0088/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, david martin, for what i regard as a very rich report on aid for trade. i am very glad that he has referred to the millennium development goals, because they represent our guiding idea and targets. i agree with him that free trade, whilst a necessary condition for development, is not a magic wand, just as i agree with him that aid for trade, whilst a necessary component of any development strategy, is not a panacea. i believe that this report expresses a very strong commitment to the aid for trade agenda which i fully share. i have also read the very useful suggestions and guidance regarding the content of the eu joint aid for trade strategy, for which i am very grateful. furthermore, i welcome parliament’s engagement in this process. since 2005, the european parliament, the council and the commission have developed a clear common vision on the main principles of aid for trade. we all agree that trade can be an important catalyst for growth and poverty reduction in developing countries, but the successful integration of developing countries into the world trading system requires more than better market access and strengthening of international rules. in this respect the general affairs council conclusions of 14 and 15 may this year recall the crucial role of aid for trade. the challenge we are now facing is to put these principles into practice in the context of the eu aid for trade strategy on which the commission and member states are jointly working. this strategy should set out a roadmap to meet our financial pledges, give guidance to improve the effectiveness of our aid, provide a framework on monitoring and reporting of aid for trade, and address the capacity of the commission and member states to deliver aid for trade. the strategy will be ready in october of this year and will then be presented at the wto aid for trade review, so this parliament’s report is extremely timely. i would like to address some specific concerns raised in the report, and first of all the issue of the broadening of the scope of aid for trade in relation to the eu financial pledges. let me emphasise that the credibility of our pledges is of great importance and make it crystal clear that there will be no changes to the scope of our pledge. the eur 2 billion target remains related to the categories of trade policy and trade development. i attach great importance to the wider aid for trade agenda, which includes building productive capacities beyond trade development, infrastructure and adjustment aid. for these areas, which are very capital-intensive, we need clear political commitment to do more, but let me stress once again that these efforts will not be counted in relation to our financial pledges. regarding the lack of additional resources for edf funding to acp countries, we would be happy to do more, but the commission does not decide on the budget for the edf. eu member states do that. there are limited exceptions only and these are also approved by member states and dedicated to very specific purposes such as adjustment arising from the sugar reform. regarding the integrated framework, i am glad to confirm what i announced in hong kong. the commission is ready to commit eur 10 million over the first two years to the multilateral part of the enhanced integrated framework. in addition to this, the commission will complement the multilateral window with substantial bilateral and regional funding to implement activities identified through the integrated framework and prioritised by the respective partner governments. we will also provide human resources and capacity in the field to contribute to a better functioning of the integrated framework. the issue of adjustment aid is rightly highlighted in the report. however, i do not agree that the epa negotiations deserve a special mention in this context. adjustment aid is relevant in relation to all external trade shocks. they may result from trade negotiations but could also be a consequence of unilateral reform as in the case of sugar. in any outcome of the epa negotiations, the implementation of obligations of acp partners will be phased in over a very long period and this will facilitate adjustment and identify requirements that we need to help meet. finally, we noted your request to look into the imf’s trade integration mechanism as part of the eu aid for trade strategy. we think that this is more appropriately addressed in cooperation with other international donors, for example as part of the global aid for trade review at wto level. let me once again express my deep appreciation for this parliament’s political support for aid for trade, as well as our willingness to cooperate with the european parliament to make further progress, and i look forward to doing so.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: why aid for trade? because commerce has a serious mission to fulfill. a few points. good trade has brought people together for centuries without invading their identities, values, social and political life. europe needs equal partners among the big players, and especially the small players. trade must be governed by clear rules that take into account the interests of each party. 'fair and free trade' is a slogan worth supporting. fair trade cannot work without the right infrastructure, without agreements, for example, within the wto. without the appropriate manufacturer-customer protocols in place. it should not be forgotten that trade aid also means support for the vulnerable sectors themselves, such as sugar and soft fruit. in addition, cross-border exchanges between the union and neighbours such as ukraine should be encouraged. the global exchange scene is so diverse that there is a need to standardise and make these standards known to all citizens. the commission has therefore set up an aid programme that takes advantage of europe's historical experience, the wealth of goods, services and know-how on offer in europe, and has allocated funds for this purpose. small, but necessary. by analogy, good trade has the potential not only to raise living standards, particularly in the poor countries that this report is about, but also to contribute to a more peaceful resolution of world conflicts. mr. chairman, please! finally, i would like to refer to the anecdotal assessment that ryanair does more for a common europe than some european institutions, because it brings people together; i would say that fair and free trade does more for the integration and well-being of the people of the world, including poor countries, than dubious political decisions. the commissioner is committed to the fact that trade is the world's glue, so let europe be the promoter of aid for trade in this sense.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in the european union, there is much talk of a sustainable multilateral trading system and of developing countries participating in and benefiting from trade. however, this concern has not gone hand in hand with the improvement in the situation of the least developed countries. on the contrary, their share of world trade has fallen by almost half over the last 40 years, from 1.9% to 1%. the displacement of retail trade and the transfer of income from less developed countries by strong large-scale trade networks is also clearly visible. these facts show that globalization and trade liberalization clearly serve to concentrate capital in the stronger countries and to increase poverty in the less developed countries. in recent years, we have seen a new approach to trade in the european union. it is manifested by a concern for the export of industrial goods at the expense of agricultural goods. this leads to a gradual loss of food security throughout the union, and particularly in the new member states. these facts make it necessary to introduce a new approach of the european union to international trade and to develop and implement national strategies for the development of trade.
on behalf of the uen group. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! mr sturdy's report on the economic partnership agreements is a good description of the situation. the current situation is not good, despite the european union's strong commitment. the success of acp partnership agreements is not predicted by cooperation based on agreements which do not take into account the global market and the rules established by the wto. the european union's aid to these countries should primarily stimulate the development of production that does not create competition for union producers. so there's no conflict of interest. this production may be sold on the european union market on the basis of multiannual contracts. examples of this are biofuels, minerals. in addition to humanitarian aid, what these countries need most is help in creating new jobs. the acp partnership agreement should be linked to the economic strategy of the european union. the new agreements should be based on principles established by the european commission, the european parliament and the acp states.
thank you, mr. chairman! i also speak as a member of the european union's permanent delegation to the acp countries. i would like to thank the commissioner for his speech, i support the main points and, above all, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr robert sturdy. it's a very good and very comprehensive report, but there are 53 points, very detailed. it's almost a negotiating instruction. i would like to stress once again the professionalism of the work, but i am referring to a certain political aspect which should be reflected in the european parliament's report. and i wanted to briefly mention here the five points which i believe are the most important in terms of the impact of our parliament on the negotiations. first, the need to clarify the sustainability aspect of the economic partnership agreements. it's not that clear at the moment to the countries we're talking to. secondly, the finding that market opening under the epas, market opening alone, does not improve competitiveness. it is very important that our partners in the acp countries also realise this. third, we should somehow stimulate reform in these countries, through preferences, incentives, also through scientific aid, education, people exchanges. it's about the overall development of civilization, which is sometimes more important than even opening up the market for products. fourthly, we must protect certain specific and sensitive sectors, such as agriculture in these countries. we must protect social groups; some, such as women, may also be at risk in certain arrangements. and we should give special preference to medicines and health care. and the fifth and final point. regional integration and cooperation, there, on the ground, that's the key. our european union has also developed on the basis of mutual cooperation, above all. and that's what we should be pushing.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs lissy groner on the council's common position with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a specific programme to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk (daphne iii) for the period 2007-2013 as part of the general programme 'fundamental rights and justice'. the daphne programme was established in 1997 and has funded over 350 projects to support ngos and institutions and associations working in the field of violence against children, young people and women. the third phase of this project, which is the subject of the report by mrs lissy groner, has my full support. daphne iii has as its main objectives to promote the development of community policies relating to public health, gender equality, combating domestic violence, protecting the rights of the child, combating gender-based violence in conflict situations and combating trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. these ambitious objectives will be supported by a budget of eur 116 850 000 for the period 2007-13, which, compared with the daphne i budget of eur 20 000 000 and the daphne ii budget of eur 50 000 000, is a testament to the importance and achievements of the programme. the report also rightly emphasises the need to open up the programme to cooperation with ngos by providing greater transparency, reducing red tape and assisting project applicants seeking funding.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the practical application of the codecision procedure. i would like to begin by thanking mr jo leinen, the rapporteur, for a very well-prepared report. every effort should be made to ensure the smoothest possible functioning of the european union and to facilitate the system of cooperation between the institutions. we must strive to make the decision-making and the creation of european law by the three eu institutions: the european commission, the council and the european parliament as transparent as possible for european citizens. the codecision procedure is very important for the european union's legislative system. it ensures that new eu legislation is adopted in a more democratic way. the proposals for improving this procedure contained in the report are appropriate and should help to facilitate the functioning of this decision-making system.
mr. chairman, please! the creation of a single market in our community, a large market, a market that has been systematically enlarged, has brought benefits to all its participants. this enlargement was preceded by the unification of the market and the introduction of a new law, the implementation of the whole process of adjustment, in short, the approximation of the conditions that ensure effective competition. opening up the market is a prerequisite for globalisation, but to bring benefits to all, it must be openly preceded by a process of not just negotiation but adaptation, including education and information for the social groups concerned. the creation of a global market must be based on the same principles as those adopted in the creation of the european market. it's a good experience. it is particularly important to establish the standards and conditions that should be met by the parties concerned. these include environmental standards, working conditions and wages, and principles of innovation. this process should have a defined 'roadmap' of a phased and evolutionary nature and full monitoring by stakeholders.
thank you, mr. chairman! first of all, i wanted to express my joy that prime minister romano prodi is a man who is not tired of europe. a philosopher once said that the greatest danger to europe is fatigue. i would like to remind you that prime minister romano prodi, when he was president of the european commission, undertook the difficult task of enlarging the european union. and he did so often against the voices of the media, or against the voices of the public, or against the voices of a part of the public. because he was thinking about the future of europe. i would like to see the same conviction in the way we think about the future of europe. there are many of us in this room who think that the european union needs a smart institutional reform right now. but the question we have to ask is: to what extent is the community method, which the prime minister has referred to as the mechanism that propels the european union forward, to what extent is the community method present in the work of the european council? so, in the action of government representatives. mr prodi has been in one body, the european commission, and he is in the other, the european council. to an outside observer, it sometimes seems that national egoism is the first and foremost reference here, rather than thinking in terms of the common interest. and that's the issue that i think is particularly important. if there is a sense of community in the european parliament, if there is a sense of community in the european commission, what can be done to make the european council adapt to this?
thank you, mr. chairman! prime minister! fellow workers! it is clear that we need a european union that is efficient and orderly, democratic and close to the citizens, based on solidarity and the constitutional treaty. the kind of union you, mr. prime minister, have outlined for us today. thank you for that. i would also like to thank the european union for the solidarity it has shown recently with my country, poland, in implementing its eastern policy. the polish public sees this and appreciates it. the polish society understands that the need to reciprocate the same solidarity on issues of importance to the whole of europe is obvious. this is because 68% of my countrymen are happy with eu membership and want more europe. and over 60% want a constitutional treaty. and that is why i am calling on you, mr prime minister, to ensure that the european council at its next summit also listens to the voices of the citizens of the european union, because it is for them, not for governments, that we are building this building called the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i have a message for you. the situation in the middle east is a permanent, significant challenge not only for the countries of the region, but also for the whole world. we caution against taking a one-sided emotional view of this decades-old conflict. despite the simplicity, despite the temptation of easy judgments made on the basis of television news, this is not a black and white film. to consider israel as an aggressor and oppressor is perhaps fashionable in some circles, but it is untrue and unintellectual. the increase in radical sentiment, and in the votes cast for radical groups such as hamas, shows that the prospects for dialogue in this area are more than difficult. another important problem is, what we don't talk about much, the deep divisions and sharp conflicts that are escalating into armed conflict within the palestinian political elites and within palestinian society. experts point to the pa's education system, which, according to participants in a conference hosted by van orden at the european parliament last week, perpetuates negative, antagonistic stereotypes of holy war jihad and structural antipathy, or even hatred, towards israel. for the sake of objectivity, on the other hand, israel has been implementing a rather controversial plan of not transferring palestinian taxes back to the pa since the hamas election victory. it must have a decisive impact on israeli-palestinian relations. the european union must respond in a realistic and rational manner. he can't be a naive uncle who gives out pocket money and doesn't care where it goes. but we can't be hostages to either side of the conflict.
madam president, minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. at the last summit in samara, the european union saved its face. the president of the commission, mr barroso, and the president of the council, mrs merkel, did not hesitate to speak out with all the severity and firmness they could about the unfair treatment of a member state, poland, in the matter of meat, and about human rights in russia. why does the european union not go further and call for the palestinians in israel to be united with cyprus, which has been occupied by turkey since 1974. in the 21st century, great injustices still exist at the gates of the union, and we are still doing too little to help overcome them. did people die in palestine before the establishment of the state of israel? how long will israeli troops occupy palestinian lands? don't the palestinians have a right to their own state? jews who haven't had it for so long, how can they deny it to anyone? amateur palestinian attacks on israel, because how else to call them compared to the actions of the israeli military, are a response to the ongoing occupation. it is israel that should take the first step in enabling the creation of a palestinian state. it would be the beginning of a path to de-escalation of violence in the region and to peaceful coexistence. the european union's role is to be the guardian of freedom in the world, especially when the united states has withdrawn from that role and is biased in favor of israel. and maybe there would have been no 9/11 if, as in the past, they had been the unbiased guardians of law and justice in the world.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! we all want peace in the middle east, but the idea that the european union should resume full and direct financial aid to the palestinian authority is decidedly premature. the fact that a country has held democratic elections is not a sufficient condition for european aid. there are countries where there is democracy, and yet the european union refuses to spend its taxpayers' money in them. i think we can talk about two main reasons for this refusal. the first is that the country simply does not need our help. the second is when a country does not recognise or apply fundamental principles of relevance to the european union. and that's the case we're dealing with in palestine. the issue of funding is not about israel and palestine, it's about our own principles. the potential beneficiary refuses to recognise the right of the donor to apply certain rudimentary rules. we're not arguing about whether to call something terrorism or freedom. we're arguing about whether you should support an organization that promotes violence against others in its programming. can we support those who don't want peace at all? the answer to the question of whether we should finance governments that don't want peace is obvious, or seems obvious: we shouldn't. and it's not because the palestinian authority is in chaos, it's not because it's not known how long the government of national unity will rule at all. not because it is difficult to determine the extent of his real power. not because 50 palestinians were killed in fighting between hamas and fatah last week. not even because al-aqsa children's television programs call on palestinian children to destroy israel and to participate in the war. the main reason we should refuse is because we should respect our own principles, our own values, our own past. it must be clearly stated that the alternative that prime minister haniyeh presents, "victory or martyrdom", is false and harmful to the national interests of the palestinians.
member of the commission. thank you for this follow-up question, mr hatzidakis, and for your own question, in which you called the commission statement ‘excessively indulgent’. you also called for a more explicit message. i must say that, as a commissioner, as i said before, i do not believe in high-volume or megaphone diplomacy. i believe in clarity, precision and consistency. in this regard i think we do not disagree with the honourable member, because, as i said before, we have repeatedly underlined the importance of the supremacy of democratic civilian power over the military. at the same time it is also important that we keep the accession negotiations alive and we make practical progress with them, because what the nationalists really want in turkey is to cut the accession negotiations. i do not want to give this present to the nationalists of turkey. it is much better to strive towards the eu accession of turkey, keep the accession process alive and move towards the shared objective, because that is the way for turkey to become a more european, more democratic country, where the rule of law and fundamental freedoms are respected. as regards your reference to the constitutional court, i understand the reasoning of your question and we have also taken note of the ruling which was issued by the constitutional court. i would like to quote what was said on 2 may by the college of commissioners when we discussed this matter and we made our position clear to the turkish government and turkish public. we said, ‘regardless of the unfortunate events leading to the ruling, this legal decision by the constitutional court should now be respected by all parties, because the respect of state institutions is essential to ensure political stability’. that is rather clear language. we also stated that, ‘under these circumstances, the european commission welcomes the announcement of holding new parliamentary elections soon in order to ensure political stability and democratic development in turkey’. again, it cannot get any clearer than that.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on estonia.
on behalf of the uen group. commissioner, mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no better illustration of the real mechanisms and forces behind european foreign policy cooperation than the recent tensions with russia against the backdrop of poland's trade discrimination and russia's interference in the internal affairs of independent estonia. solidarity with estonia was our moral duty, but it is also in our best political interest to show solidarity. the recent accidents on the union-russia line were a major investment in the future of the european union, far more important than further institutional changes. the european union is living through a great moment today, thanks to the farsighted approach of president barroso and chancellor merkel. i think i will be expressing the feelings of many poles and central europeans when i say solemnly here: thank you!
mr. chairman, please! let's look at the bigger picture. the last russia-eu summit in samara brought a change in relations between the new member states, as they could feel that there was eu solidarity. the president of the council and the president of the commission should therefore be congratulated. the lack of progress in the talks may be worrying, but the samara summit should be seen positively, as the development of eu-russia relations depends on russia respecting the sovereignty of individual eu countries and abandoning tactics of political pressure through economic and information technology instruments. unfortunately, the russian authorities don't take this into account. cyberattacks on estonia have not stopped, and the embargo on polish meat is still in place. the trail of alexander litvinenko's killers leads to moscow. the union has no choice but to continue to press. but we cannot understand russia today without looking at its relationship to its own past. lasting and constructive relations with russia require the union to develop a common vision of this past. to this end, a 'truth and reconciliation charter' should be created.
member of the commission. mr president, this discussion has clearly shown that the key word is ‘solidarity’. i should like to thank a number of members for their words of thanks. mr barroso in particular could not have been clearer on this issue. many of you know what he said. his meaning was that aggression against one member state – in this case estonia – represents aggression against the whole european union. this was a very strong statement and it also showed that divide et impera politics cannot work if europe speaks with one voice. these were the main issues and main lessons of these proceedings. these questions took some considerable time in the discussions in our meeting. we emphasised again and again that we are working as an eu of 27 member states and that solidarity will be maintained. on wto accession, both sides at samara recognised that our economic and trading links are larger and more intensive than ever and it was encouraging to hear from the russian side that they intend to accelerate the process of their accession to the wto. it is encouraging because it is in our interests to bind russia into a rules-based system where it can then be held to account. this is very important. on cyber-attacks, it is now up to the council to work on the commission communication where we have added a specific paragraph on cyber-terrorism. i can see there is generally much agreement in this house on how important it is to work on this question of solidarity. (applause)
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 24 may.
the next item is the report by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the cfsp, including the financial consequences for the general budget of the european union - 2005 (2006/2217 (ini)) (a6-0130/2007).
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the elmar brok report covers 2005, but of course we are here to talk about the future of the common foreign and security policy. what's she gonna look like? the european union must, of course, have the right instruments in the form of institutions and policies to actively contribute to peace, stability and international security. but behind these tools there is always the political will of the member states, or the lack of it. europe is and will be as long as the political will of its leaders is there. the common foreign and security policy is also the political will of our leaders. so what are the challenges facing our leaders in terms of the cfsp and the sdg? firstly, i believe that whatever the final shape of the reform of the treaties, those proposals which are contained in the constitutional treaty and which directly or indirectly relate to the common foreign policy should be put on the road to reform. so give the european union a legal personality and get rid of its pillar structure. establish a new body, i.e. the post of minister for foreign affairs, and establish a european external action service. the general principle of unanimity should also be maintained in the field of foreign, security and defence policy, but the scope of qualified majority voting should also be extended. it is essential to introduce a solidarity clause in the event of a threat or terrorist act and to maintain the principle of mutual assistance in the event of armed aggression on the territory of any member state (principles formulated in article i-41 of the constitutional treaty). in addition, it is necessary to maintain structured cooperation in the field of missions while eliminating their exclusive character. the treaty should also include an extended list of tasks for st petersburg and finally establish a european defence agency. secondly, the effectiveness of the peacekeeping missions, both the current ones in bosnia and lebanon and the future one in kosovo, must be ensured. finally, a clause on energy solidarity should be introduced in the new treaty. it would be a good response to the threats to the energy security of the member states, which are increasingly affecting our citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr brok, for this important report. it comes at a very crucial moment, when the german presidency is trying to revive the constitutional treaty, perhaps without its title. the important thing is greater efficiency. how can we achieve greater efficiency in the future? not only via the institutions but also through the political will of the member states. only if there is unanimity in our actual way of voting will there be the possibility of an effective common foreign and security policy. therefore, we should go forward with more qualified majority voting on common foreign policy. this is very complicated, but i think it would make a real difference. i should also like to thank our rapporteur, particularly with regard to his remarks on the delegations. i have started to work very closely with our people on more training, on better political reporting, on public diplomacy and on exchange programmes between the member states, the council, the council secretariat and ourselves in order to achieve – via osmosis, as i always say – a better understanding of each other and to prepare a cohesive approach in the future. let me just make a couple of further remarks, one about kosovo. kosovo is indeed a european problem, which needs a european solution with the agreement of the international community. the european union is to take responsibility for post-status kosovo. how can we achieve this? i think this can be done by setting up an international civilian office, by establishing a very significant rule of law mission and by continuing capacity-building on a large scale on the basis of, hopefully, a security council resolution. i should also like to say that today we have already had quite a long debate on the middle east. we know how difficult the situation is, but i think the european union has played quite an important role and wants to continue to play an important role, particularly in conjunction with other members of the quartet. even if the situation seems to be rather bleak today, we hope that we can still bring the two sides together for a positive approach in the future. i should like to mention that the black sea is one of those new areas where we have focused our efforts with regard to our neighbourhood policy, because we think this is a new area with new member states, like romania and bulgaria, we have reached out and we would like to work together with turkey and with russia on this region, trying to address many of the important issues. finally, with regard to contacts between the council and the european parliament, there is now an interinstitutional agreement, there is more contact between the council and parliament on cfsp issues, and i think the special representative of the secretary-general, mr matthiessen, who is here today, will certainly also mention that.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, may 23. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by astrid lulling on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 92/84/eec on the approximation of the rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages (com ((2006) 0486 - c6-0319/2006 - 2006/0165 ((cns)) (a6-0148/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen of the house! the proposal to approximate excise duty rates for alcohol and alcoholic beverages has generated lively discussion and numerous controversies. this is due not only to the variation in the rates of excise duty applied in the various member states of the european union, but also to the fear that the initiators of the changes are in fact aiming at a gradual transfer of tax competence from the member states to the union and the introduction of a single tax on natural and legal persons. the proposed amendments to council directive 92/84/eec would therefore lead to a weakening of competition, a lower quality of individual products and a further monopolisation of the market by large groups. in conclusion, the problem is more complex than initiators of change might think, and requires further analysis, discussion and further consultation with the member states.
excuse me, mrs lulling. i shall give you one minute just to conclude and say whatever you think is most important, because you are not scheduled to speak. you have one minute.
yes, we are in a parliament, and that is why i am obliged to keep some order.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, may 23.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading, drawn up on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks (17032/2/2006 - c6-0101/2007 - 2004/0154 (cod)) (rapporteur: mario mauro) (a6-0169/2007).
mr. chairman, please! at the end of the three-year process of creating a new legal framework for the financing of joint transport and energy projects, we are aware that we are behind schedule and we are aware of the huge needs and expectations in this area, which will not be met by reducing funding from 20 to 8 billion euros. as a witness and participant in this process, i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mario mauro, to our partners in the committee on transport, to commissioner barrot, to the council - the participants in the compromise. for the european parliament, this compromise means a certain renunciation, as mario mauro has mentioned, namely in the field of comitology, since legal experts have encouraged us to take a harder line. but knowing what was possible, in december 2006 mr mauro and i sent a letter to the then finnish presidency, promising that if the council adopted the agreement without amendments, we would try to do so in parliament, at second reading. it has, and now it's our turn. i am in favour of keeping to the agreement, that is, of not delaying the regulation that europe is waiting for. a new chapter is being opened in project finance, a field in which europe has not yet had much success. i am not dismissing any problems or conflicts of interest that may arise, but i am arguing that the consolidation of transport systems is one of the fundamental dimensions of the integration of the continent. unless, of course, as mr jarzembowski has mentioned, these will be cross-border projects by their very nature.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the committee on budgets for asking for the approval of the common position adopted by the council last march, because this approval will be the last step before we can establish the general rules for granting community financial assistance in the field of transeuropean transport networks. i am following the request of many speakers and i am saying here that i do not want to give in to the temptation of spreading money around, which would not really help to achieve these objectives, the development of which is indispensable. i can assure you, mr president, that the commission will do its utmost to ensure that this new community legislation is properly applied over the next seven years. the commission is keen to ensure effective and visible results that meet your expectations and those of european citizens and businesses who aspire to an efficient and sustainable transport system. i can say again, and i say this to mr savary in particular, that i have already fulfilled my commitments on informing parliament, commitments which i reiterate. i would also like to tell mrs ţicău that we will not forget the new member states and that we will put a lot of effort into this. i would like to say, along with mrs jensen, that it is high time that the member states were also put on the spot so that they could take this path. i have also noted the requests made by mr jarzembowski and mr bösch. i thank you for your constructive attitude throughout the legislative process. mr mauro, i would like to thank you in particular, the chairmen of the two committees responsible - the committee on transport and the committee on budgets - and all those of you who have worked on this matter. i will work in close cooperation with the european parliament to implement these major projects, which will require us to put the general european interest above all other concerns. that is what i wanted to say, mr president, thanking parliament in advance for allowing us to take action now and thus launch the call for proposals to demand answers from the member states which will then enable me, in the autumn, to launch the operations.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, may 23. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
mr. chairman, please! i also join in congratulating and thanking mr rübig, the author of today's report. i have no doubt that today is a very important day for the european parliament and for the hundreds of millions of citizens of the european union. we have the chance to prove to our electorate that the european parliament is a necessary institution, an institution that deals with matters of importance to them. the issue of the dramatically inflated prices for roaming calls imposed on consumers by multinational companies has undoubtedly been a concern for europeans for many years. telecom companies did not compete on price, as they should in any healthy market, but many experts said they did agree on the price of calls. over the years, millions of tourists and small and medium-sized businesses have suffered as a result. today we can end this illegal exploitation. and while that sounds like a socialist slogan, it's the truth, as my liberal colleagues in this room have shown. this regulation, like many others that we have, would not be necessary if the market were governed by sound and transparent rules of competition. we are for standing guard over the rights of the citizens of the union, and those rights are undoubtedly being violated today by an anti-market conspiracy. the firm stance of parliament, including that of my group, has shown our partners in the council and the commission that we will not allow the provisions of the regulation to be watered down, that we will not allow the interests of consumers to be disregarded any longer. this holiday will enable eu citizens to communicate with their families and businesses abroad at a much lower cost. the rates will be drastically reduced to a maximum of 49 cents per minute for international calls and to 24 cents for international calls, and calls will continue to fall in the coming years, and i hope i share the view expressed here in several speeches that this price reduction will be faster than the proposed compromise.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate commissioner viviane reding and the rapporteur, mr paul rübig! i thank the council for its favourable opinion on the proposal to reduce roaming charges. something very unusual has happened. for the first time on this scale in the european union, we are introducing regulation that helps competition, helps the free market, helps the implementation of the lisbon strategy. small and medium-sized enterprises, researchers and students, tourists, millions of europeans working outside their own country - all will benefit. i stress that this regulation is not only beneficial to consumers but also to the market. in the discussion, we heard arguments against regulation, because, allegedly, the free market hates regulation. yes, that's right, that's right, except for one case: protecting competition and consumers from monopoly. that's the case. the european commission acted like all the competition and consumer protection authorities that we have in every european country. but it's important that we now see how this regulation works. i hope this isn't just an isolated incident, but a precedent. and that we will be able to regulate many other things in a similar way for the good of the market, competition and consumers. we have a very serious challenge in creating an energy market. we have a problem with national champions, who we're very proud of, but we have to bring them into the market. the lisbon strategy did not work in the first period, when we left it to national governments to decide first. it works better when the european commission is watching over it. i can see that. i therefore congratulate the commissioner and i congratulate president barroso.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation on the regulation of roaming charges within the european union is an important step towards eliminating monopolistic practices and facilitating the use of mobile communications by european citizens. the compromise reached allows for a reduction in roaming charges of more than two thirds over three years. it is a pity that we have not been able to get support for further reductions in roaming charges, i wish they'd cut the rates on texting and mms. but the agreement reached is a great success for the commission and the european parliament. i would like to thank both the commissioner and our rapporteurs for their work. ladies and gentlemen! the widespread availability of low-cost mobile telephony services is primarily good news for citizens travelling in europe. but it's also good news for the governments of the member states. indeed, numerous studies show that the widespread use of mobile phones increases productivity, accelerates economic growth and improves quality of life. with decisions like today's, we are building a union that is friendly to its citizens. i wish more such decisions to our house!
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the globalisation processes taking place in the union and worldwide are bringing about major changes in ownership, culture and society. different economic development and material situation of the population are causing migration for work, and this on a massive scale. according to the ilo, unemployment affects some 192 million people worldwide, while migration affects some 86 million, including 34 million in developing regions. hungry people, leaving their homes and families in search of work, take any job and often fall into the hands of criminals. the numbers are staggering: ilo data shows that 2.54 million people were sold into forced labor in 2004 alone, of which about 43% were for sexual exploitation. so the question of a fundamental nature is, why is that? why are many countries, including those in the european union, failing to address this problem? the answer is simple: capital has come before man, the rich do not count on the poor. and globalism, liberalisation, are all conducive to exploitation (...) (the president withdrew the speaker's speech.)
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile telephone networks within the community and amending directive 2002/21/ec on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (com (2006) 0382 c6-02442006 2006/0133 cod)) mr paul rübig rightly stressed the need to find solutions to enable community citizens to use mobile phones when travelling abroad. the current market for mobile telephony services is fragmented and constitutes a barrier to the daily use of telephones abroad. i agree with the formula for maximum wholesale and retail rates. it is very important to finally reduce the unjustifiably high level of roaming charges, to explain to users how to activate the new tariff and to inform them of the date of entry into force of the above legislation. the initiative that if a customer does not choose a tariff within three months of the regulation coming into force, he will be entitled to an eu regulated tariff and that mobile operators will be required to provide each customer with information on the amount of outgoing and incoming charges applicable to his tariff is also welcome.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on roaming on public mobile telephone networks within the community and amending directive 2002/21/ec on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services. when we adopted the lisbon agenda, we set ourselves the goal of making the european union the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world. we must therefore ensure that the market for mobile telephony services within the european union is a dynamic market without internal barriers. currently, around 80% of citizens in the european union have a mobile phone, but the price level of mobile roaming services is so high that it reduces demand for these services. mobile telephony services are not just voice telephony, but also other types of next generation communication services such as gps, wi-fi and remote internet access. these are very future-oriented solutions that are a particularly important element in contributing to the development of the knowledge-based economy. we cannot therefore allow their use and development to be restricted by too high a barrier price.
in writing. the report rightly emphasises the key role of cohesion policy in supporting the internal market through trade and jobs created by the development and implementation of projects co-financed by the european union. it is also worth noting the role of cohesion policy in increasing the visibility of the european union in the eyes of citizens and the increase in support for the european union in regions that have benefited significantly from cohesion policy. the commission and council should be encouraged to examine the feasibility of allocating at least 20% of the structural funds to support research, development and innovation. the proposal to create a technology initiator function at local and regional level, which will facilitate the achievement of innovation by enterprises through access to european aid and programmes, is also noteworthy. mep francisca pleguezuelos aguilar, calling for greater exposure and publicity of projects supported by the structural funds by the member states, is seeking to bring the benefits of the community's cohesion policy closer to the citizens of the european union.
in writing. mr president, i vote in favour of the adoption of the report by mr elmar brok on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the cfsp, including the financial consequences for the general budget of the european communities (point h.40 of the interinstitutional agreement of 6 may 1999) 2005. the report by mr brok rightly emphasises that without a constitutional treaty the european union will not be able to create a common foreign and security policy capable of meeting the major challenges of our time. the appointment of a minister for foreign affairs, who is a member of the commission and president of the council of foreign ministers, will increase the effectiveness of the european union's action and its importance on the international scene. the amount of eur 1 740 million allocated to the common foreign and security policy for the period 2007-2013 is insufficient to achieve the union's ambitions as an international actor. the report rightly notes the need to increase the role of the european parliament in the common foreign and security policy. the council should not simply inform parliament but above all fully involve it in the main choices and actions of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the report by elmar brok on the main aspects and basic choices of the cfsp defines the merits of the case very well. if the constitutional treaty is not adopted, it will not be possible to talk about creating a common foreign and security policy to meet the challenges facing the european community. in addition, the report properly defines the areas of eu interest on which we should focus these include: the fight against terrorism, immigration, energy security and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the report is balanced, the emphasis is on the right things, and that is why i voted in favour of it.
prime minister of the netherlands. mr president, i would like to thank the members of parliament who have spoken for their inspiring contributions. what i am experiencing here in parliament, and i would not have expected it to be otherwise, is an atmosphere of animation, an atmosphere of reflection on european ideals in the context of europe in the 21st century. that is why i was so moved by what mr daul said, and that is perhaps the most fundamental, about the values which have made europe, the values which europe stands for and the values for which we have a global responsibility: the european union is a major player in the world economy. that is what made europe strong and that is what we need now. that is perhaps the connection i would like to make with mr schulz's speech. it's really very good that we meet each other again. i don't remember either of our encounters. it was a real pleasure to discuss this with you, and it is still a pleasure to discuss it with you today. thank you very much! you have spoken about the international aspects, the external aspects of the european union. i can only agree with you. we live in a world of change in china, in india, in the united states. we are seeing changes in the security sphere, the fight against terrorism, the climate and energy issues. in all these areas, europe can do better, work better and make more of a single voice heard. then we can talk about what you call the rep. but what is important is the content and the message of the values that mr daul spoke about. let us spread it and let us do it in common. these are questions which speak to our ideals for the europe of the future, not only here and on our own continent, but worldwide. you have made that plea and i think that is right and necessary. that brings me to mr watson's point. he is raising the concrete issue of energy. i would like to reiterate what he said on this subject: we can't live without each other. if europe does not come together in one voice, we will have big problems. energy is not just a matter of the presence of energy, energy has to do with stability. stability in terms of energy supply, economic, social and environmental. we need each other in that respect too. if i listen to you carefully, and i have, i see a link between the european ideals, the way europe is going out, foreign policy, and tackling the concrete issues we are facing - mr watson's point of energy. if you allow that to happen, europe has a great task. i was pleased to hear mr watson make a comparison with the netherlands in the 17th century, the golden age. a time when the netherlands did great things globally. but did that just happen? no, that didn't just happen. steps had to be taken. you had to want to sail the world's seas and you had to have your governance structure in order. did that go from one day to the next? no, that didn't happen. it took time. but with the certainty of: we want to do business with each other. if you do, you have struck a chord with me, because it is a question of: how do we shape the europe of the 21st century? how can we make europe perform in the economy, in energy, in global relations? the big question today is: are the existing ratios sufficient? no, they're not. nice is not enough to meet the demands of the 21st century. (applause) so the question is, of course, what's the best way to do it? then you have the problem we have in europe with member states that have ratified, countries that have said 'no' and countries that have not yet decided. that's the reality. the past few years - the time of reflection - have not been in vain. i believe we have given the citizens answers. we said, let's work on the concrete projects in europe. make europe's importance visible to people so that europe can return to their minds and hearts. we talked about the process of enlargement. let's make that a credible project. let us take a closer look at the criteria, which have also been tightened. that too is a question of the credibility of the european project. we said, let's tackle those issues that are so defining for people in europe. then we'll talk about energy and climate. that is why i have written a letter to my colleagues together with tony blair to say that we want the issue of climate and energy to be high on the european agenda. it lives in you, too. we can't live without each other. let europe prove what it can do. mr president, the period of reflection has been used. but it must not be so, and i say this here in all clarity, that at the end of that period of reflection we have a climate in which one group is placed against the other group, in which the group of the 18 ratifiers is placed against the countries that said 'no'. if we were to do that right now, we wouldn't get out of it. it is my sincere belief that solutions are possible. let's do it in a way that everyone can relate to. i think that the method of amending the treaty, as we have done before, is a viable way forward, because it allows us to take over the good elements of the constitutional treaty. because those elements of institutional compromise should play a major role. because we can't just leave things the way they were. of course, you have to look at the different parts. mrs buitenweg has made a comment on the charter of fundamental rights. it's extremely difficult here, and i understand that. if we are talking about the charter, you can rally to our side, because we are equally convinced of the importance of fundamental rights. just, what's going on? the question is whether all of this should be included in such a constitution which would whether you can refer to it by other methods. that's the point. so let's talk about the meaning of fundamental rights. but let's look at what the impediments of a constitution might be. i'd be happy to debate that with you. it is my sincere belief that we must make pace. my dream and ideal is that when it's june, we can say, we'll create a clear time path to get out. to get out, because we want to solve this problem in a few years, and that can only happen if we work together. i made suggestions in my speech. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, but is instead given the opportunity to play a more active role in the world. i have mentioned these elements and we must be able to bring out the commonality, to face what unites us and not what divides us, you are right, mr schulz. and we have to be willing to compromise. that goes for all of us. if it works, then we can take steps forward, that's my intention. i do so with the feeling and conviction that we must avoid talking only about a 'no' from two countries, because the feelings and concerns of citizens are a reality. we must answer the questions that now exist. if we do so with the attitude of wanting to come together, draw short-term conclusions, see what is needed for this, and i have suggested elements for this, then it is possible to find solutions. what we cannot have in an age of further globalisation, of globalisation of social issues, is that we cannot find answers, because the divisions that existed continue to exist. i think we owe it to the founders of the european union, adenauer, schuman, de gasperi, monet and all the others, to continue with the ideals, to keep in mind, as joseph daul said, the values of europe, the european dream. not to ignore the concerns of citizens, but to do what is necessary. if we can get those conclusions in june, we can go a long way. we need each other for that, and i think we owe it to the ideals we pursue. mr. president, i was inspired to hear your sounds. i will also pass them on to the netherlands and the task for all of us must be to find solutions quickly, with understanding of each other's positions, but always with what we must have in mind, namely working towards a european dream in the 21st century. (applause from the left)
mr prime minister, mr president! the future of europe is secure. the development opportunities of new countries, the acceleration of economic growth in old europe, and finally the emancipation in international relations are just some examples of the success of integration. the european union is acting. i therefore warn against hysterical predictions of a crisis in the union as a result of problems with the reform of the treaty. logic: the "constitutional treaty or death" that romano prodi presented to us yesterday is a serious mistake. it only increases the tension. it is also the supporters of this rigid position who are now partly responsible for the slowdown in the negotiations. wrapping an old treaty in a new cover, or breaking it into parts, is a very cheap trick. i trust that as the prime minister of a country that has rejected the old treaty, you will show more pragmatism on the substantive changes in the draft of the new treaty. i heard your speech with jan zahradil, the czech negotiator. i would like to say that your pragmatism is expected not only in poland but also in the czech republic. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! the development of a european consciousness is a prerequisite for the prosperous future of a united europe. it is defined by all that we europeans have in common: history, christian culture and the understanding that we have only one future in common. we must remember that we cannot build european consciousness by force. no legislation, even if it is passed in the atmosphere of the greatest success, will create it, not in the atmosphere of dislike. this is because it is not constitutions that make communities, but communities that make constitutions. therefore, a constitutional treaty for europe will not bring about a new quality in european consciousness and it is not worth fighting a war in its defence, especially when it may cause unnecessary divisions. we must make sure that there are more moments in our history together, like the ones that took place recently in samara. we need to make sure that the world sees us as one more often. we must speak with one voice, and only then will we be able to meet the challenges ahead. and i believe deeply that we can do this because of our shared consciousness, which no legal act can guarantee.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the situation in nigeria is of great importance for the stability of west africa and ultimately for the whole continent. the recent elections in nigeria were very disappointing. the council also expressed this in its statement of 27 april. there were numerous irregularities and violent incidents. up to 200 people were killed, many more were injured or intimidated. the council expects those responsible for these acts of violence to be held to account. fortunately, at least no religious or ethnic conflicts were detected in this election. there was an improved legal framework for these elections. substantial funds have been made available. all this had raised our expectations that the 2007 elections would be better than the 2003 elections. we are still waiting for the final report of the eu election observation mission, but some initial assessments suggest that the 2007 elections were even worse than the 2003 elections. the main problems were poor organisation, especially the late opening of polling stations, the lack of ballot papers and the fact that the elections were not secret. the fact that widespread irregularities were accompanied by substantial electoral fraud was even more serious. another serious problem in the elections was that detailed results were not published. in addition, the results were calculated in an unintelligible way. at this point, we should ask the nigerian authorities to publish the results and break down the numbers by polling stations. only in this way can the transparency of the electoral system be guaranteed. however, positive and encouraging for the council were the signs of increasing judicial independence during the election campaign. we hope that this trend will continue after the elections. the lively discussions in the private media before and after the elections were also encouraging. the council was impressed by the commitment of the nigerians themselves to this democratic process. the involvement of civil society organisations is and remains therefore of great importance. the council called on all political actors to use peaceful means and to behave responsibly by consistently applying the legal procedures in order not to disappoint the nigerian people. we hope that the independent national electoral commission and other bodies will quickly provide the evidence that the electoral courts need to complete their work as quickly as possible. the council also hopes that the nigerian authorities will be positive about the possibility of a repeat of the elections in cases where there is clear evidence of serious electoral fraud. but this is not the time to turn our backs on nigeria. on the contrary, i am. the stability and development of nigeria is of vital importance not only to the nigerian people but to africa as a whole. if the millennium development goals are not achieved in nigeria, then we cannot achieve them in africa at all. the future government of nigeria will face many challenges. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. another aspect is the continuing uncertainty in the niger delta. the eu should support nigeria in these challenges. it should intensify its efforts to strengthen good governance and democracy and promote respect for human rights in nigeria. this commitment must be made in cooperation with nigeria and on the basis of clear commitments by the government. the council will therefore continue to follow developments in nigeria closely.
member of the commission. madam president, as we have just heard, nigeria has recently held important elections that will determine the transfer of power from one civilian president to another. on the invitation of the nigerian authorities, the commission fielded a large independent election observation mission (eom), which performed well and cooperated closely with other international and domestic observer groups. i appointed mr van den berg – who had also observed the elections in 2003 – chief observer for those elections, and he will shortly give us his report. the mission concluded that the 2007 state and federal elections fell short of basic international and regional standards for democratic elections, pointing out that they were marred by poor organisation – as has already been cited, a lack of essential transparency and safeguards, widespread irregularities, significant evidence of fraud and disenfranchisement of voters. sadly, at least 200 deaths from election-related violence were also reported. other international observers – including those fielded by the economic community of west african states (ecowas) and the us national democratic institute, led by madeleine albright – were also very critical, as were domestic observation groups. the eu presidency expressed disappointment at these elections not having marked progress in relation to 2003, which has now been reiterated by our president, at the irregularities and at the high toll of victims. the reactions and the messages from the international community had been consistent in urging nigerians who have complaints about the process to use the legal provisions outlined in the constitution and in the electoral act, commending the independence shown by the judiciary and the engagement of civil society and praising the commitment of poll workers and voters. disappointment at this missed opportunity is widespread in the international community, as nigeria – one of the major powers in africa – could have set an example of successful consolidation of the democratic process, which would have had a tremendous positive impact on the african continent. this is even more regrettable as the elections were held in an improved atmosphere in which the freedoms of assembly and expression were at least broadly respected. the elections have highlighted the many problems and shortcomings of the nigerian democratic process, and the commission is aware that many challenges and misgivings need now to be addressed and overcome. in the short term, pressure should be placed on nigeria’s independent national electoral commission to publish a complete breakdown of the polling station results, which is a basic requirement of transparency, and the judiciary should also be encouraged to act swiftly and responsibly with the election petitions. if redress is not provided, this could have serious implications for the future. while the lessons learned will have to be taken into account in our future relations with nigeria, entrenching positions should be avoided. i think the political dialogue has to restart, but future relations will have to include a deeper engagement at federal, state and community level with a wider range of players in civil society and government. the topic of the elections must be a key feature of the political dialogue with nigeria, based on the recommendations of the eom. our readiness to engage nigeria in a political dialogue and the commitment to promote the strengthening of governments and democracy in the country, particularly together with ecowas, is highlighted in the joint eu-ecowas communiqué issued on 24 april at the 11th eu-ecowas ministerial meeting. while the main instrument for political dialogue will remain articles 8 and 9 of the cotonou partnership agreement, the programming of the development cooperation to be financed by the 10th european development fund will also provide a crucial avenue for dialogue and the opportunity to take into account lessons learnt from the elections and the outcome of the discussions with the new government, civil society and other key players.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. the elections in nigeria were eagerly awaited by the nigerians themselves and by the international community with high hopes. there were several reasons for this hope. first, nigeria is the most populous country in africa. and as the commissioner said, the success of the democratic process in nigeria could be a good and attractive example for other african countries. second, it was the first nigerian election in which one civilian government was replaced by another civilian government, which is very important in a country with a strong tradition of military rule. and third, the scope of freedom of speech in nigeria is broad, and the courts have proven to be independent. unfortunately, the opportunity for that positive example was wasted. the resolution we are debating is very critical. nevertheless, this criticism is fully justified. poor organisation, numerous procedural errors and irregularities and even electoral fraud have rendered the recent elections in nigeria uncredible as free and fair. these choices did not meet either the international standards or the regional standards set by ecowas. worse, the election was marred by violence, resulting in at least 200 deaths. questioning the significance of the violence by discussing the number of victims reveals a lack of understanding of the issue by most nigerian politicians. it seems that for nigeria, long-term civic education will be extremely important. it's not enough to send election observation missions, we need to invest in education and building civil society. i believe that nigerians should not be subjected to the blackmail of spreading threats, as if contesting the election results is tantamount to provoking a military coup. this philosophy of the lesser evil weakens democracy and justifies and strengthens anti-democratic tendencies. the 64 million registered voters in nigeria have the right to have the election results reflect their true will. and that is why the union should seek to make this happen.
madam president! despite its natural wealth, nigeria is a corrupt and backward country where the benefits of wealth, especially oil deposits, are not used to develop the economy and improve the lives of the people. influential interest groups have been antagonizing muslims and christians in nigeria in an effort to maintain chaos, even though the state and religion are supposed to be separate and the constitution guarantees all rights to the citizens. however, i think that the debate in the european parliament before the announcement of the electoral courts is a bit premature, although in this dramatic debate and the dramatic situation in this african country, with the accusations of lack of democracy and election fraud, it would be appropriate to recall here in the european parliament the words of the greatest authority of the 20th and 21st century, the holy father john paul ii, that the reason for the existence of the state is the sovereignty of society and the nation, and the condition for peace and international cooperation is the respect of the rights of the nation to existence, freedom and culture.
madam president! in the last election in nigeria, over 200 people were killed. the conduct of this election had little to do with democratic procedures. the head of the eu observers, max van den berg, stressed that the elections did not meet the hopes and expectations of the nigerian people and could not be considered credible. nigeria is a country torn by religious and ethnic conflicts, especially between the muslim and christian populations. it is also a country with vast oil reserves and other valuable resources, and it is the ninth most populous country in the world. political assassinations, torture, the use of collective responsibility by the military are common. freedom of speech and assembly are restricted. the persecution of the christian minority is also becoming more alarming. from the outset, the european union was built on the foundations of respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and civil liberties. many times in its history, the european community, and later the union, has spoken out when freedom and democracy were threatened. the example of georgia and ukraine also shows that only decisive action can bring results. after all, ukraine has had a repeat of the rigged second round of elections. this was not only because of the steadfastness of the ukrainians, but also because of the clear, unambiguous signal sent by the european union. i am also concerned about the delayed reaction of the european union to the events in nigeria. in the event of a breach of the basic standards, the response should be immediate. it is exactly one month since the nigerian riots and elections, and all eu financial assistance to nigerian government structures, including the democracy and human rights initiative, should be immediately suspended if this money is to be channelled to corrupt government structures.
madam president! i am sorry, but we had a very important vote on the election of the eurolat chairman, so i have to postpone my speech. nigeria has not taken advantage of the opportunity that was given to them in the last election. our observers have made it clear that this election was neither free nor credible. i'm talking about corruption and very poor organization. the nigerian government is responsible for this. the elections were marred by terror, with 50 people killed, half of them in the niger delta. at times it was a caricature of the election, some polling stations were not open at all, at others the ballot boxes were hijacked by bandits. europe must pay particular attention to the elections in africa's largest country, which is a very important economic and political reference point for many countries on the continent. the elections in a country of 110 million people, 64 million of whom are eligible to vote, need to be the focus of international public attention, and these elections have not strengthened, but seemingly weakened, nigeria's standing on the international stage. even before the elections, we have noted a number of non-electoral activities and trends that must be of concern. for example, in muslim-ruled regions, girls attending christian schools are forced to wear headscarves as symbols of islamic tradition. this is a clear violation of the law and religious tolerance, yet the practice is increasing, and with the muslim takeover of nigeria, this type of discrimination may become even more widespread. we as the european parliament cannot remain silent on this issue, especially since it is a matter of breaking the conscience of children. there will be an opportunity to take a stand on this matter tomorrow during the vote, and such an amendment will be tabled on this very point. what happens after the election? we should not only complain here we can have many reasons to complain, but we can not stop there. we need a clear plan to enforce democratic rules in a country that plays a key role on our neighbouring continent. i'll be blunt, we need to force the nigerian government to respect democracy and free elections under the threat, i say bluntly, of turning the financial tap on aid. this aid cannot be given to state and federal structures, but can and should be given to non-governmental and social organisations. we also need to push for the nigerian government to step up its real fight against corruption, violence and a sense of impunity for local authorities, which is a state within a state.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the aim of the document is to implement the lisbon strategy and to lay the foundations for a european innovation policy. the aim is to use the tools for implementing this policy in a way that improves the approach to research, the flow of knowledge to the economy and the implementation of innovative solutions in economic and social practice. the first question to ask is: what is innovation? the definition of this concept is important because innovation is the subject of large amounts of funding in regional development operational programmes. this term should be understood to mean any innovative solution to the problems encountered in the field of shaping the human environment, that is, the creation and use of its tangible and intangible products, including in the provision of services. the aim of innovation is therefore always to rationalise the production and use of products and the provision of services. this is related to the efficient use of energy and materials, as well as working time and the protection of both the workplace and the environment. so it's about doing things that lead to an increase in the quality of human life. it is, of course, necessary to exclude any artificial innovation concerning known products placed on the market under a new name. unfortunately, this is a common practice, often preceded by false advertising. the broad approach to innovation problems, which is what we are talking about, makes it possible, as defined above, to implement the innovative solutions known in one place in places where they have not been used before. in this case, the criteria for local innovation seem to be set by the local authorities with the help of experts. it's about getting the right funding for these things. the key drivers of innovation are: a well-functioning eu market for commercial products and services, taking into account all four freedoms; adequate innovation and education, but above all its structure, as graduates from studies with low innovation potential currently predominate; better practical use of the huge intellectual potential of research centres, especially in the new eu countries; better use of tax incentives, for example, to create an innovation fund, as well as loan guarantees, public procurement and public-private partnerships. innovation also stimulates synergies, including the creation of uniform community standards and norms. finally, the incentives for innovation are the appropriate intellectual property regulations. broadly speaking, innovation covers three groups of innovative solutions. the first is the rationalization of all types of activities, including administrative, educational, tourism, business and many others, which simplifies processes and reduces the time it takes to complete them, but does not bear the hallmark of invention. this kind of innovation requires a lot of practical knowledge. the second group of innovative solutions concerns innovation based on inventions which are patentable or form the basis of industrial or utility designs. this type of innovation requires a great deal of theoretical, practical knowledge, much of which is acquired, among other things, in patent offices. finally, the third group of solutions concerns innovative research on new strategic designs, systems and technologies carried out on a large scale in the framework of european or national research programmes. innovative basic research, and especially applied research, is producing, among other things, pioneering markets and new patents. the proper development of the second and third groups of these types of innovation requires a unified community patent and licensing strategy and the establishment of an innovation hub in the form of the european institute of technology. the current patent systems - there are as many in the eu as there are in the member states - are too expensive and the procedures take too long. the lack of a well-functioning, cheap and efficient european patent system is not conducive to innovation. the current patent policy of the european union countries is favourable to large corporations, which impose conditions of competition favourable to them by means of patent claims. this is not conducive to small and medium-sized enterprises, which could be the biggest innovators. in conclusion, i would like to say that innovation in economic and social life depends both on the proper functioning of purely market mechanisms and on eu and national regulatory action, including the way in which projects are supported from budgetary resources. our task is to create a european innovation area through comprehensive, appropriate education, financial and fiscal, research, patent and information policies. i would like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks for the fruitful cooperation of my colleagues, the deputies of the rapporteur, mrs toia, and mr kubacki, mr hammerstein, mr ransdorf and mr janowski.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. two weeks ago i presented a report on innovation in the context of regional policy. i am grateful to the author for including this aspect in his report. i believe that mr gierka's report can help to make the results of scientific work, patents, inventions and rationalising solutions more effective and practical in the broad sense of the economy. without it, we are doomed. it is not about innovation for its own sake, or artificial or false innovation. there is an urgent need to really tap into the work of the scientists, inventors and engineers who create real added value for europe and for our entire civilization. we need to look at where the brakes are on innovation, whether our bureaucracy is a particular obstacle. the union institutions, member state governments and regional authorities should play a stimulating role in these positive actions. the regions are often home to excellent universities, research centres and clusters. we have talked about the obvious role of small and mediumsized enterprises here. however, financial instruments, including taxation, and the proper use of the structural funds should not be forgotten. of course, innovation is particularly about building technology, especially today digital engineering, nanotechnology, materials engineering, biotechnology, medicine and so on. this is a huge opportunity for the european institute of technology and the proper use of the 7th framework programme.however, it should be stressed that innovative activities in education, management, administration, various services, agriculture, the local economy and so on are also necessary. in conclusion, i would say that true innovation always has a human face, so that both the creators and the users of the innovation are at the service of man.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the following points in this debate: firstly, the average r & d expenditure in the european union is only around 2% of gdp, whereas the most developed third countries, including the united states, spend at least 3% of their gross domestic product on r & d. in this situation, the distance between the united states and europe is not only not narrowing, but on the contrary, it is growing. secondly, it is very important that the union budget for research and development be supplemented by national budgets and local government budgets, and above all by private sector funds. in 2010, the european union is expected to spend 2.6% of gdp on research and development, with two thirds of this coming from the private sector. thirdly, it is to be hoped that the funds allocated to research and development from the european union budget will be directed not only to renowned universities and research centres but also to higher education and research establishments in both the old and new member states.
thank you to mr. chatzimarkakis for giving us the final score of the game! madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr adam gierka, and commissioner verheugen on all their initiatives in the field of innovation. the problem of innovation is undoubtedly the most important problem in the lisbon strategy, because it means competitiveness. the innovation strategy presented in mr adam gierka's report is admirable. the report contains 61 specific points. what matters is a new definition of innovation: not just technology, but marketing, management, services, non-technological innovation. it is important to have a coherent innovation strategy. first of all, the knowledge triangle, represented here by the european institute of technology. then, as the second point, the protection of intellectual property and, thirdly, stimulating the market, i.e. the macroeconomy. finally, the report is well integrated with previous work, for example the competitiveness and innovation programme, the european union's education programmes and, of course, the seventh framework programme. but the question is: why are we having problems in the european union? this is due to the weakness of the european market. first of all, we have a bloated public assistance. second, we protect the national champions. third, we have a delayed response to monopolistic practices. fourthly, the absence of a full, single market for services, labour markets, capital flows. we're closing instead of opening. we rarely serve the market and the consumer. the exception was today's vote on the roaming directive. it is clear that the commission's proposals are better for the lisbon strategy and better for the european market than those of the national states. i congratulate the commission and i congratulate the rapporteur once again!
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the initiative to simplify the common agricultural policy and adopt more understandable and transparent legal standards deserves support, but on the condition that the new regulation does not lead in practice to the imposition of further technical standards, allegedly universal, for the community. the question arises, therefore, whether such a far-reaching simplification is not synonymous with a reduction in specialisation, a loss of sensitivity to the specific conditions of agriculture. the commission claims that these are technical changes and in fact it also wants to remove some of the council's powers. the commission also ensures that all political decisions are taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 37 of the treaty, after consulting the european parliament, and we know that this is not the case. this principle was breached, inter alia, in the sugar market reform. now, under the guise of technical changes, an attempt is being made to abolish intervention on the pigmeat market, which, combined with the abolition of the subsidies for maize, will lead to the destabilisation of these areas of agricultural production and the loss of income for farmers once again.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. let me remind you of the basic facts which discriminate against the new member states in the so-called common agricultural policy. i note that the data comes from the eu institutions. in 2004, the new member states' share of agricultural land was almost 22% and their share of subsidies was less than 4%. the agricultural and rural development allowance per hectare of agricultural land in 2007 is eur 148 per hectare for new members and eur 366 per hectare for old members. in 2013, we are faced with a similar disparity, with ten years of discrimination against the new member states and a lost opportunity to build a strong european agriculture. the disparities in the allocation of milk quotas are striking. the netherlands, which has eight times less agricultural land than poland, has a higher milk quota. in the sugar market, the reform is mainly favouring a few of the old union countries which are responsible for overproduction. and finally, the fruit and vegetable market. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of employment. in three member states, 90% of these grants go to a small group of the strongest producer organisations. the market for processed fruit and vegetables is currently worth €775 million, of which over 86% goes to the three old member states alone and only 2.5% to the new member states. all new member states receive ten times less than the average size of one country of the old union. ladies and gentlemen! the president of india, mr abdul kalam, in his wise address to this house on 25 april this year, stated, among other things, that to achieve lasting peaceful solutions, one must have 'justice at heart'. this message has been met with your warm approval and applause. the reorganisation of agricultural markets discussed today has many advantages: it aims to simplify legislation and reduce administrative costs, thus making life easier for farmers. it also has one fundamental flaw: it is not 'fair at heart', because it does not correct the unfair subsidisation of farmers in individual markets. this is particularly true for the poorer farmers in the new member states. the poor get less, the rich get more. this has nothing to do with the fundamental principle of the european union, which is the principle of solidarity. the rules of the common agricultural policy are still clearly being violated in many sectoral markets. repeated attempts to introduce fair financing for farmers in individual markets have proved unsuccessful. the figures showing clear discrimination were ignored. the current proposal of the european commission still has the shortcomings of the market organisations. it is artificial, unfair and not based on the real situation. a vote for simplification is a vote for perpetuating injustice and discrimination. i therefore appeal in particular to the representatives of the new member states: do not vote for this simplification, because despite its apparent advantages it discriminates against your farmers! at the same time, i would like to ask the representatives of the old member states: are you aware that financial discrimination against the new members is a threat to the future of the european union as a whole, because it perpetuates the division of the union into rich and poor, because it contradicts the idea of building a strong europe that is supposed to compete on the global market? i shall therefore vote against the commission's proposal and against the report. i also believe that simplification of legislation is necessary, but only if the individual markets are fairly organised. the european state! so have "righteousness in your heart"!
madam president! we are debating today the simplification of the common agricultural policy. the proposal is to establish a single common organisation of agricultural markets to replace the 21 sectoral regulations currently in force. it will be possible to repeal some 41 council regulations containing more than 600 articles and replace them with one regulation. of course, these measures should be welcomed if they improve eu legislation and make it more understandable to farmers and taxpayers, but this seems unrealistic. i'll give you an example: the paying agency in poland is accepting direct payment applications for the third time. this year, they simplified it so much that we had a delay in filing it because the farmers had a problem filling it out. this simplification is intended to be technical in nature and cannot therefore be transformed into another reform of the common agricultural policy. the position of abolishing intervention buying-in on the pigmeat market is therefore unacceptable. i would also be more cautious in delegating regulatory powers from the council to the commission, as this could result in a reduction in the influence of the member states on the decision-making processes concerning the functioning of the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. the question is also whether it makes sense to make all these changes when we are in the process of reforming the fruit and vegetable and wine markets. we also do not know what the health check will be in 2008, what the future of the common agricultural policy will be. i believe that the direct payments system in the eu27 in particular should be harmonised and simplified, and the rates of subsidies should be aligned, so that we can talk about a level playing field. the simplicity of saps makes it worthwhile to consider simplifying it for the eu15. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the single market.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr niels busk on his report on the difficult subject of the establishment of a single and common organisation of agricultural markets. replacing the 21 common market organisations with one horizontal council regulation on a common market organisation will certainly contribute to simplifying and streamlining the legal structure of the first pillar of the cap and to greater transparency of agricultural legislation. however, we must not forget that the creation of a single common market organisation is a process of technical simplification and cannot include elements of political change. the work currently under way on a new regulation cannot be seen as a revision of the accepted principles of the cap and should not be a pretext for changing the policy decisions taken on agricultural policy. in this light, the commission's proposal to abolish intervention buying-in on the pigmeat market, which is so important in poland, for example, is therefore unjustified. i am also concerned about the european commission's proposal to set up a single management committee for the common organisation of agricultural markets. will one committee with a limited number of national experts function efficiently? would this not help to limit the influence of the member states in the administration of market instruments? how does the commission intend to ensure the full presentation of national expertise in the comitology process? would it not therefore be advisable to set up at least several management committees, including one for the meat, milk and plant products markets? and one last thing. as regards the extension of the commission's powers, i would like to stress that only in technical matters which do not have a substantial impact on the functioning of agricultural markets is it possible to transfer the council's competence to the european commission. this means that the power to determine the standard quality, the system of classification of carcasses on the market for beef and veal, pigmeat, as well as the power to determine the trading standards on the market for eggs, poultry and live plants should be vested in the council and not the european commission. moreover, all political issues should continue to be addressed together with the council and parliament.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european commission's planned changes to the current intervention system for cereals, which exclude maize from intervention, are intended to solve the problem of increasing stocks of maize each year. i agree with the commission's argument that the intervention mechanism needs to be reformed, but the planned changes could do more harm than good overnight. the reform of the cereals market should be evolutionary in nature and the measures to be taken should address the existing problem in a comprehensive manner. farmers should have sufficient time to prepare for the changes. instead of immediately excluding maize from intervention buying-in, the solution should include the maintenance of intervention buying-in until 2008 and then its gradual abolition or the phasing out of the intervention system by setting maximum limits for the intervention buying-in of maize for each member state according to the level of its current production as is currently the case for the rice market (this would increase the transparency of the system and facilitate market management); and the possible maintenance of intervention buying-in of maize for a transitional period of 2 years, subject to stricter controls to prevent excessive stocks of maize grain. these solutions would make it possible to abandon intervention on the maize market without causing too drastic a disturbance of the market. intervention is not only intervention buying-in, but also support for exports from the free market in the form of export refunds. in this context, it is also necessary to modify the current instruments to support the export of cereals from the free market so as to allow the export of cereals from countries with disadvantaged locations such as austria, the czech republic, slovakia, poland and hungary. the main market for cereals from the european union is the north african and middle eastern region, which means that exported cereals must be transported by sea over a longer distance than those exported from western or southern european ports. this has worked well, while increasing the efficiency of grain exports. it would be worthwhile to continue this mechanism in the following marketing year. i would like my speech to be seen not as an expression of solidarity with the great hungarian people (according to the famous polish and hungarian proverb "polish hungary two nephews, and to the sword and to the glass", although in this case it could be paraphrased as "polish hungary two nephews, and to the sword and to the grain", which in hungarian would be "lengyel, magyar két jóbarát együtt, harcol arat s gabonát"), but as a certain logic of the proper approach to the abolition of the intervention system for maize.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the report by mr béli glattfelder points out the dangers which the commission's proposal to exclude maize from the council regulation on the common organisation of the market in cereals may cause. since 2003, the conditions on the cereals market have changed. in neighbouring countries, such as ukraine and russia, which were once the breadbasket of europe, local and european capital is investing in the production of grain and livestock. a powerful competitor to european union agriculture is growing. the maize has already been sown and the buying-in conditions for the growers cannot be changed during the production cycle. the idea of excluding only maize from the regulation could cause unintended disturbances on the whole cereals market. at the same time, demand for cereals, including maize, is increasing with the consumption of meat and the use of cereals for the growing production of biofuels, which will be of great importance for the future of this market. in conclusion, the commission proposal seems unjustified until the european union cereals market is stabilised. (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
madam president! the european commission's original proposal to end intervention buying-in of maize from the 2007/2008 marketing year is unacceptable. like my hungarian colleagues, i am opposed to a radical reduction in intervention in this market. it is true that changes are necessary, but instead of abandoning the intervention system we should create the possibility of developing and supporting the eu cereals market. the commission has recently adopted stricter criteria for buying maize, so perhaps we should wait and see what the effects of these restrictions will be. in addition, the commission should take into account current market trends. we have a member state of the union which has to import maize to finance its needs. the first step is therefore to improve the liquidity and functioning of this market in the union. the european commission should develop appropriate solutions requiring the efficient removal of surplus cereals from countries with disadvantaged locations, from which transport costs are much higher. for example, exports of cereals to third countries should be encouraged, first of all from countries which are in difficulty. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'.
member of the commission. madam president, i should like to thank members very much for their contributions to this debate. i have listened very carefully to what they have said and should like to reply to some of the specific issues that were raised. an important point concerns the question of whether legitimate expectations of growth were respected. the commission is convinced that they were and that they are still. the maize-sowing season is in march and april. farmers deciding to plant maize in the spring of 2007 are aware that there might not be any intervention for the 2007 harvest. in this regard, a communication to maize producers was published in the official journal in december 2006. it was mentioned that we have not seen major offers of maize intervention in the current market year. this is true. however, the current high prices for cereals are not driven by the internal market but by the situation in the international market. the boom in the bioethanol industry, particularly in the usa, has also played a role in keeping cereal prices high. situations change from one year to the next. it is possible that the 2007-2008 marketing year might be similar to the last two marketing years, with massive intervention offers. another issue that was raised is that this proposal moves the problem from maize to other cereals. as i have explained, this proposal is aimed at solving the current maize problem. it is true that the removal of maize intervention could lead to a relative loss of competitiveness for barley and possibly soft wheat, triggering the risk of increasing public stocks for cereals. a full examination of the cereal intervention system is certainly necessary. this will be done in the framework of the health check. although the discussion has clarified some points, it has also confirmed that the fundamentals of the commission’s proposals are right. as i made clear in my opening statement, the maize sector needs this proposal. the commission is prepared to be flexible in finding options to provide operators with a soft landing but it cannot simply agree to maintain the status quo. as already stated, the commission is also ready to accept a phasing-out over two years, as many have requested. if the glattfelder report is adopted in its present form as a rejection of the commission proposal, mrs fischer boel will certainly go back to the college, but her position on this issue remains quite clear.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission plans to stop buying-in maize for intervention as from the 2007/2008 marketing year. this is supposed to prevent the accumulation of excess stock. unfortunately, this is a rash and unreasonable action. especially since the commission is allowing the import of genetically modified maize in large quantities. the commission apparently does not take into account the consequences of this decision for both the cereals and pig markets. i believe that the commission should think and act in a different way, i.e. maintain subsidies for organic farming and abolish them altogether for genetically modified maize and protect our market against its influx from third countries. it will be healthier and more economical, with a better environmental footing and a chance to increase demand for our agricultural products.
madam president! kashmir has been one of the most hot spots on the map of the world's human rights organizations for 56 years. the civilian population has been in a desperate situation for many years, with virtually no protection or assistance from the international community. the fighting in kashmir is almost non-stop. human rights groups say more than 30,000 civilians have been killed in kashmir since the 1989 uprising by the mujahideen. kashmir should become a matter of conscience for us, all european democracies that have a tradition of dialogue and freedom, especially in the religious sphere, seem to ignore or downplay the plight of kashmiri civilians. the european union must commit itself to promoting democracy, using all possible means to promote its development, especially in areas which have been affected by armed conflicts for years on religious or racial grounds. the european union must now be more determined to engage with the civilian population in kashmir in the face of the ongoing indian-pakistani talks on kashmir, which unfortunately are unlikely to succeed. the union should join the peace process in asia in the same way it supported the orange revolution and supported alexander milinkiewicz by awarding him the sakharov prize. it should be borne in mind that asia will be the european union's largest economic partner in the future, both in terms of natural resources and labour. the disregard for conflict is a manifestation of ignorance and recklessness that we cannot afford in the 21st century, knowing that weapons of mass destruction could be used in the midst of conflict.
member of the commission. madam president, the commission would like to emphasise its belief that there are now renewed hopes that the kashmiri issue can be brought closer to a solution. both sides have, we believe, sent out signals that appear to be more flexible now than in the past. nevertheless, we would expect a slow and gradual process rather than quick results. but it is important – and this is where the rapporteur is very clear in her report – that the key to resolving this conflict is very much in the political aspirations of the people of both sides and of both countries. the european union will continue to support the reconciliation process between india and pakistan and, for its part, the commission is fully prepared to continue to provide assistance to the region through its different cooperation programmes and, in reply to mr elles, we have already decided on eur 50 million for reconstruction work, which we think will take a few years. we have not had any additional claim from either government for additional resources, but we are open to discussing this in due course if such requests come. this programme will also help restore economic development and good governance in the two countries. that is the main and fundamental condition to finding a sustainable solution to the situation in kashmir.
member of the commission. on behalf of the commission, and replacing my colleague, commissioner dimas, who is unable to participate today because of serious health problems, i would like to make a presentation on the situation and to explain why the commission applied to the court. the polish authorities gave the green light to the construction of the augustów bypass, which cuts through the unique rospuda valley in a forested natura 2000 site, despite the initiation of previous infringement procedures. a letter of formal notice, covering the augustów bypass among other things, was addressed to poland on 15 december 2006, while the decision authorising the start of the works was issued by the polish authorities on 2 and 9 february 2007. the rospuda valley is the last peat bog system of its kind in europe. therefore, the commission is of the opinion that, if the project is executed in its current form, it would be in breach of the directives on birds and habitats. on 28 february 2007, the commission issued a reasoned opinion on an urgent basis requesting poland to comply with ec environmental law within a week. having found the response of the polish authorities unsatisfactory, the commission decided on 21 march to refer the case to the court of justice. the decision provides for a request for interim measures, which means the suspension of construction works until the judgment of the main case is delivered, in order to avoid irreversible damage to the natura 2000 site concerned.
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president! - i have to go. the via baltica and rospudi cases should be seen from two perspectives. they should not contradict each other. the first point of view is the practical point of view of the people who live there, who use these roads. this is not just the case for poles, but also for the people of the baltic countries, the people of scandinavia. this is a real problem, and we're not gonna run away from it. many people die on these roads, they have the right to the best possible road standards and to move in a good and safe environment. but the second problem is that we are faced here with the question of the responsibility of the public authorities for the decisions they make. it's not like he's trying to pretend that there's no alternative course of action. it is, and it is possible, it is practical, it just requires political will. in poland, this issue has been debated for years. we drew attention to this together with a group of polish meps last year when we asked the commission to put a stop to this investment and we urged the polish government to do so, because it is good to prepare investments immediately, taking into account the european standard. the second thing is the lesson. well, this is the first, unprecedented event of its kind in poland. we must be very clear, we european parliamentarians, and the european institutions must ensure that all member states prepare all their investments immediately - for the benefit of the inhabitants, for the improvement of their safety - in a standard that takes into account our directives, in a standard that takes into account the protection of nature. it is possible. there is no contradiction here. this lesson must be very strong, and that is why we, the liberal group, strongly support a solution which will bring about the creation of the via baltica as soon as possible, but also a breakthrough as soon as possible, namely that it is not worth insisting on bad decisions that violate the ecological sphere.
madam president! the issue of the proposed via baltica is controversial, as is the case with many other trans-european transport corridors. a study of the european commission's investment statistics clearly shows that many member states have considerable problems planning infrastructure investments in natura 2000 sites: austria, spain, portugal. the polish government is now maintaining its intention to continue the construction of the augustowo bypass through the rospudy valley. it argues that the investment decision was taken before poland's accession to the european union, when poland was not bound by the strict requirements of the eu directives on birds and habitats, which the european commission alleges poland violated in connection with the investment. the argument for the construction of the ring road is road safety for poland. however, the ecological criteria that must be met for the project have been forgotten. but whatever the situation, the talks on the ring road cannot be allowed to stand still. the problem must be resolved in a spirit of compromise that satisfies both sides. both environmental and road safety arguments are equally valid and will apply to hundreds of similar investments in poland and beyond. the cooperation mechanism at different levels should be improved and regulatory criteria adapted to the current environmental and social situation. i would, however, urge that similar requests for debate be treated equally in the future. to date, despite the support of over 60 members of this house, no agreement has been reached to debate the biggest environmental threat posed by the construction of the nord stream 2 pipeline under the baltic sea. i would remind you that more than 10% of the marine areas are part of the natura 2000 network and that no one, literally no one, has taken up this issue in the european parliament. in the present situation, when ecologists and the whole of europe are witnessing the destruction of areas of great biodiversity, there is no will to discuss the ecological threat to our only inland sea, the baltic sea.
madam president! the polish pse delegation to the european parliament has long stressed the need to build the augustow ring road. however, the selected construction project, which runs through the rospud valley, will certainly have a negative impact on the unique ecosystem of this natura 2000 protected area in europe. the augustow bypass will cause irreversible damage to the environment, including the cutting down of 20,000 trees and the extinction of very rare species of plants and animals. unfortunately, it should be noted that any variant of the ring road will interfere with the natural environment of the region. the choice should be such as to minimise the negative impact on the unique fauna and flora of the rospud valley. representatives of the law and justice party, the party currently in power in poland, assured before the elections that the via baltica road, part of which is the augustowo ring road, would bypass the most valuable natural areas. now they're breaking those promises. the polish authorities had time to reconsider the location of the bypass, but ignored the suggestions of environmentalists that damage could be avoided and money saved by changing the route of the highway. the minister of the environment has not taken the opportunity to reconcile the interests of augustow's citizens and conservationists. the polish government ignores the problem that such an investment would be extremely costly and would burden polish taxpayers, because the european union would not contribute to the construction of a road in an area where, according to the habitats directive, nature must not be destroyed. moreover, in view of the clearly negative assessment of the construction project by the european commission, the continuation of the works may expose poland to multi-million euro fines, the burden of which will be borne by polish taxpayers. in my opinion, the holding of a local regional referendum on the route of the augustow bypass through the rospudy valley, proposed by prime minister jarosław kaczyński, is only a manifestation of the polish government's evasion of responsibility for the country's affairs and unnecessary antagonism of polish society. the referendum was held because at the same time elections to the podlaskie voivodeship sejm were held. however, it was clear from the outset that the outcome of the referendum was not binding on the european court of justice, which is currently dealing with the issue. so it doesn't matter, and this kind of action is only for domestic political purposes. i would also like to point out that according to polish law, for a referendum to be valid, 30% of those eligible to vote must take part, and this threshold was not exceeded in the sunday elections. nature is one of our most precious assets, yet we are not doing enough to protect it. i believe that the polish government should immediately and thoroughly develop alternative options to solve the problem.
madam president! the environment is a very important thing, one of the most important things in the modern world. nature is an independent part of our environment, not created by us, and it is imperative that we protect it. but environmental protection cannot be an alibi for small groups of environmental activists who resort to blackmailing regional and national authorities. for reasons more political than ecological, and for the expected material benefits, they try to block the construction of roads, bypasses, and airports. a classic example of the abuse of environmental arguments is the protests against the construction of the airport in świdnik near lublin, poland. the reference is to the colony of blackbirds that exists there, not to mention that this was not their original habitat and that experts believe they can be safely relocated elsewhere. the environmentalists also cite dubious reasons for other planned investments in central and eastern europe, including via baltica. it is not mentioned that the overwhelming majority in poland in the referendum in the same region where the ring road is to be built, voted in favour of the construction of the ring road. european environmental regulations cannot be applied automatically without a case-by-case approach. they must be approached with common sense, not with ideological emotion. the use of an eco-scare could halt most infrastructure investments in the new member states. let us not forget that these investments have a significant impact on people's living standards their right to good infrastructure is at least as important as environmental considerations.
madam president! it is true that poland, which has done a lot in the last 18 years since the beginning of the regime change, has unfortunately neglected the construction of roads. that's right, you did. now we're trying to make up for that in a big way, but it's not easy. one of these obstacles is the ecological barrier, which, it should be remembered, did not limit the construction of the transport network when western europe was paving much of its territory. now we have a conflict. but nature is not silent in this conflict. various groups of environmentalists speak out for it, sometimes too loudly, forgetting that man is also an important, if not the most important, part of this ecosystem. and that it is man who must be protected first. it is regrettable that the conflict over the construction of the rospudy valley has gone so far that it has become very complicated - also politically. is there a way out, a reasonable way out that would satisfy both parties? i'm afraid not, that the commission has to choose. you have to decide. i personally think that the road should be built, but the permit for this construction should be accompanied by a hard list of conditions that should be met to minimize environmental damage. because, let's face it, there will always be losses. they're part of every civilization, and nothing in this civilization really comes for free. it all costs money.
madam president! via baltica is important above all for the cohesion of the european union. it is important for the temporary rapprochement of the baltic states, namely lithuania, latvia, estonia, and indirectly finland, through poland, to the whole of the european union. the benefits for the union the european appear to be measurable and significant. i also know the very difficult situation of the people of augustow, which is a city with a large and growing traffic of trucks, passenger cars and buses. these people can't live like this anymore. this region of poland is very rich in natural values: flora, fauna, lakes, forests, landscape. any road location in this region will have negative environmental effects, but you simply cannot avoid this region. the construction of the road will bring these values closer to europeans, but the lack of construction will make the region an inaccessible wasteland. i therefore ask the commission to take these aspects into account, despite the not always professional stance of the present polish government. it is possible and necessary for the commission and the government to seek effectively a solution that benefits the union, the citizens, the residents of augustow and the drivers of transit vehicles without causing excessive damage to the environment. i was for many years, in the mid-1990s, the polish minister of transport. i supported the project then, i thought it was necessary, and i support the via baltica project today.
madam president! it is my duty as the polish mp to inform the colleagues that the via baltica case has two faces. one is environmental, the other is political, and it's been overhyped. the worst part is that the european commission has also been involved in the local elections in podlasie. i would like to point out that the commission has recently been interfering too often and unnecessarily in matters which are the responsibility of the polish government and local authorities. that's why it's gonna be noisy around the e-19 soon. so the question is: what is the commission? in poland, it is commonly said that the funds made available to poland for the construction of motorways should be blocked. it would be better if the commission took up the issue of the production of genetically modified food in europe, for example, because this is precisely why we are facing ecological and biological disaster, and the schmidt farms which are increasingly poisoning the environment with impunity. so there is work to be done and not necessarily to interfere with those who are honest in their work.
madam president! the european commission has decided to take poland to court for starting construction of a section of the trail that is 1,500 metres longer than the current track and that currently crosses natura 2000 for a 5 km section. today, the route is in such a bad state that the locals call it "the road of death". in 2006 alone, 14 people were killed and 25 injured on this road near the small town of augustowo. delaying the construction of the bypass by 3-5 years, or at least as long as it takes to settle the case in court and possibly repeat the investment process from the very beginning, could cause another 40 to 70 victims to die. i would also like to mention the harmful noise produced by the thousands of trains passing through augusta and the catastrophic risk to life which the inhabitants face from the exposure to accidents caused by trains carrying dangerous materials through built-up areas. the habitats directive allows for investments in natura 2000 sites in exceptional circumstances for social reasons, subject to the application of compensatory measures. last sunday, nearly 92% of the residents voted in a referendum to build the new route that has already been designated. is this attitude of the inhabitants not sufficient social reason to withdraw the complaint from the court? if the commission does not decide to withdraw the complaint, it will show that it has failed to balance fairly the opinions of a small but very influential group in the environment directorate, environmental groups and eco-terrorists. and on the other hand, the expectations and needs of the people, which were personally presented to the commission by the mayor and the district marshal. in this situation, if alternative methods of constructing a bridge across the rospudá do not satisfy the commission, a more serious conflict may occur, threatening to permanently paralyse and block the road currently in use. with people like you, with your determination, and i know because i'm the only one who lives there, anything is possible. therefore, it may be considered to open negotiations with russia, belarus and ukraine on the route of transit traffic from the baltic states through these countries if this route is not soon available.
member of the commission. madam president, i understand the sensitivity of this issue. we are talking about trans-european networks, about trans-european works and roads and people who are living near these roads. we understand that this project started before the entry of poland into the european union. however, i would like to stress, on behalf of the commission, that certain procedures need to be followed before large programmes can be started, in particular impact assessments. the commission is urging poland – as it is now its responsibility – to complete the impact assessment as soon as possible. in comparison, and in reply to the question on the north stream proposal, the project concerned has not yet started; the impact assessment is ongoing and this project can only start after the impact assessment is completed. that is a different matter. it is the opposite with the via baltica situation. there has been no impact assessment; the process is only halfway through, but the works are ongoing. the works are ongoing outside natura 2000. we do not have any information that poland is breaching any decision of the court. i can also confirm that no european financial resources have yet been given to the project. there were some comments concerning the commission’s responsibilities and powers. they are outlined in the european treaties. if you want to change them, then you will have to change the treaties.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. poland, lithuania, latvia need both via baltica and other road investments, as well as environmental protection, including rospudy valley. it is not possible to isolate certain areas of the union from other regions and countries solely because of requirements arising from environmental protection rules. on the other hand, we cannot ignore the environment by justifying all decisions with the needs of infrastructure development. experts say that there are alternative routes that do not threaten the environment as much as the current projects. if so, then the effort should be focused on speeding up the process rather than on clinging to a suboptimal solution. the level of emotion that this issue is causing in poland is very high. it seems more reasonable to find a substantive solution. the ruling coalition in poland has politicized the issue to the extreme. it even led to the holding of a local referendum, which can hardly be seen as an attempt to exploit the issue of the via baltica route, since it was held at the same time as the regional elections. in addition, the result of the referendum is not binding on the european court of justice or even on the polish authorities. the best solution for the region's inhabitants and future road users seems to be to find a compromise at european level so that the principle of sustainable development is not an empty slogan.
in writing. the report rightly emphasises the need for europe to have a broad innovation strategy to improve the competitiveness of its economy. the innovation strategy should be based on the creation of specialised knowledge regions, the reform of patent law and the introduction of tax incentives for companies investing in research and innovation. in order to facilitate the flow of knowledge at the level of research centre-business, the rapporteur notes the need to promote specialised knowledge regions within the member states, to increase the importance of cross-border cooperation and to intensify cooperation with experts from third countries. in the spirit of the report, i believe that the european institute of technology should create conditions that enable the linking of knowledge centres with business by focusing on innovation and helping to stimulate competition in innovative sectors of the economy. the report also highlights the need for reform of patent policy in europe. it is clear that robust and fair copyright protection and patent systems are key elements in building an innovative knowledge-based economy and society.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by professor adam gierk entitled 'putting knowledge to work: an enhanced innovation strategy for europe'. there's a very deep divide in innovation in the world today. on the one hand, there are the 'innovation frontier' countries, where the vast majority of the science, research and development sector is concentrated, and on the other hand, the 'periphery' countries, which can only act as importers or diffusion countries of innovation. the world leaders in innovation are the usa, japan and the european union, and the competitive atmosphere between these economies is a stimulus for their innovation. however, the european union has recently experienced a 'paradox of innovation'. the economic performance of the community can be considered disappointing in view of the opportunities offered by the single european market. the project to transform the eu into the 'most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy' is a testament to the union's awareness of the need for fundamental reform of the socio-economic system, and a testament to the ambition and optimism that such change is possible. in his report, the rapporteur very aptly points to the main causes of this situation in the eu and above all emphasises the need to develop an effective innovation strategy for europe.
in writing. the riots in tallinn and the attack on the estonian embassy in moscow have shown member states how the current authorities are conducting their policies towards individual eu member states. but this time, moscow's aggressive approach to one of europe's smallest countries was miscalculated. for the first time, europe was united against russia - an important day in the history of the european union - because one of the fundamental principles that underpinned the building of the community is the principle of solidarity. i am therefore pleased to have been among the overwhelming majority of meps who voted in favour of the resolution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: when we talk about freedom of speech and the fact that president chavez has decided not to renew the license of the radio in venezuela, one of the largest radio and television networks, it is worthwhile to think about the limits of freedom in general. we agree that freedom is not absolute, that freedom is limited by the good of others, is limited by moral principles, can be limited by legal principles. freedom must be a servant. well, freedom of the press is the very foundation of civil liberties. so it's surprising to me that here in this room there are voices, as usual in cases like this, from the left, who are trying to explain that freedom can be limited only because it is freedom for political adversaries. freedom for us is fine, in the words of one of my forewords, but not freedom for our adversaries. well, there's no such thing as freedom. we had it, we saw it, we observed it, we lived in a communist system where it was said: freedom is there, but for us, not for our enemies - according to the famous expression "there is no freedom for the enemies of freedom". communism fell and we thought we'd get away with it, and yet now it turns out that this communism like hydra is being reborn in different parts of the world and has its defenders even here in this room who say that chavez is doing well because he is taking away the right to vote from those who he doesn't like, and as it turns out, some of those in this room don't like it either. ladies and gentlemen, let us beware of the left, the extreme left, which is always ready to defend any restriction of human rights whenever it is convenient for it.
mr. chairman, please! venezuelan president hugo chávez has announced that he will not renew the broadcasting license of one of the largest private television stations, radio caracas tv, which has been in existence for 53 years. this move is nothing less than an attack on democracy and freedom of expression, and a depreciation of the position of private broadcasters that are critical of the venezuelan government. this decision is unacceptable and inconsistent with all international treaties that venezuela has signed to respect media pluralism, not to mention the fact that articles 57 and 58 of the venezuelan constitution guarantee freedom of expression, communication and information. the events in venezuela are very worrying, because they represent another example of the blatant violation of human and civil rights in countries that call themselves democratic states, such as cuba, china and venezuela. recently, the world was shocked by the death of russian journalist anna politkovskaya, who had condemned the kremlin for its actions in chechnya. the european union should clearly and explicitly condemn the attempt to silence journalists who dare to criticize the authorities. we cannot be indifferent to the violation of the principles of democracy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the continuing violations of human rights in syria are reaching alarming proportions. the syrian government severely restricts freedom of speech, assembly and association of any kind. the syrian authorities continue to intimidate and imprison human rights defenders and peaceful critics of the current government. following the may 2006 beirut-damascus declaration, which called for improved relations between lebanon and syria, the syrian security services arrested dozens of people for expressing views different from the syrian government in the declaration, including prominent writer michel kilo and human rights defender anwar al-bunni. thousands of political prisoners remain in prison without trial. 2006 passed without any information from the syrian authorities about the fate of the 17,000 arrested by the syrian security services, mainly members of the banned muslim brotherhood and syrian activists who were arrested in the early 1980s, as well as several hundred lebanese and palestinians arrested in syria and in lebanon by the syrian security services and the syrian-lebanese and palestinian-controlled militia. as representatives of the european union, we must firmly oppose the continued repression and human rights violations in syria, as we have jointly expressed in today's resolution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i'm a first-term congressman, but i remember this is our third debate on sudan. it would be better for the people of sudan if we didn't have to deal with them. i am glad that the six largest political groups in our parliament agree on the sudan issue, that we are coming out with one common position. it can be said that the suffering and the horrendous sentences, the injustice, i repeat, the injustice in this country, paradoxically unites us europeans. the situation in the 21st century where women are sentenced to death by stoning for adultery or 16-year-old children are sentenced to death by hanging is unacceptable. yes, we are interfering in the internal affairs of sudan. more than that, we should do it for moral reasons, but not only. the commission has also been very active in the fight against terrorism, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area. we also need to speak out against practices that are just as cruel as the mutilation of young girls, which is also happening in this country. personal story in my country, there is a debate about the death penalty, there is nothing to hide. i'm personally against it. what's happening in sudan confirms my opposition to the death penalty, although of course the cultural context is completely different. i would like to stress that we must act in solidarity on this matter, we must act together, because only our solidarity, the solidarity of the whole european union, can make these absurd sentences not happen.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the conflict in sudan, which has lasted for more than 50 years, has claimed at least 2 million lives. the turning point in one of the bloodiest wars in modern africa was the signing of the nairobi peace agreement in 2005. but the conflict in the western country of darfur continues, with 400,000 people killed and 2 million displaced. the people of this province are suffering from the worst humanitarian crisis in history, lacking food, water, health care. the darfur tragedy is now in its fourth year. so far the european union has taken no effective steps to force khartoum to stop war crimes and crimes against humanity. the latest reports of executions of minors in sudan are yet another confirmation of the human rights violations committed by a country that has signed many international agreements, including the cotonou agreement, but openly ignores them. we can no longer simply express our concern about the situation in sudan, as european foreign ministers have done in nineteen statements on the subject over the past three years. it is time to impose effective economic sanctions that would show sudan's leaders that their campaign of mass violence against their own citizens has a real price.
madam president! the success of the reform of the european union today depends on the flexibility of all parties to the negotiating process. in this light, the position presented here is extremely uncompromising and rigid. the european parliament, following a logic devoid of any spirit of compromise, is taking part in the failure of the treaty reform. instead of tightening the conditions, what we need today is action towards countries that have indicated reservations about the old text of the treaty. if the reform is to be successful, the netherlands, poland, the czech republic, the united kingdom and france must receive a new offer and a flexible negotiating mandate for an intergovernmental conference on foreign representation, the division of powers and the voting system in the council. blocking this discussion by force today means only the loss of the next few years. i really liked the hemingway story quoted by méndez de vigo. but i read it differently. hemingway's flying hero, if he had chosen a medium marlin, a little smaller, he would have made it safely to the harbor and had something to eat. but he chose the marlin over the limit, returned to port with nothing and almost lost his life. i would prefer to spare the european union such an experience and therefore will not support this report.
mr. chairman, please! i think that the brok and crespo report is a good report, deserving of our full support, and i shall be voting for it with all my heart. with this report, the european parliament is sending a signal that we, the people of europe, want the kind of union that is described in paragraph 9 of the report: a union that is more efficient, better functioning and that respects the rights of its citizens. we are sending a signal to the igc that we support and identify with the 18 countries that have ratified the treaty, but at the same time we see the need for change, the change that is necessary for the other countries to do so, and that we are open to that change. they are indicated in the 12th paragraph of the resolution. i am particularly pleased that this twelfth point contains a provision on solidarity in the energy sector, which is very important for my country. the report also recalls the political responsibility of the member states which signed the treaty, which is the fifth point of the report. i would add that these countries also have a legal responsibility under international law, and specifically under the vienna convention on the law of treaties. my country, poland, has not yet ratified the european constitution, but poles are highly pro-european and are among the most pro-european societies. i believe that the motto of the german presidency, 'europe will only succeed if we work together', should be addressed to governments, not to citizens who have long been convinced of this.
mr. chairman, please! the promoters of the euro-constitution are consistently aiming to turn the community and the european union into a continental superstate. this is the main problem with the european constitution. this is a harmful trend for the nations of europe. it will be the beginning of totalitarian processes on our continent, contrary to all democratic declarations. the gradual elimination of the political functions of modern national structures is very dangerous. the takeover of the political tasks of the nation-states by supranational structures leads to the destruction of the cultural heritage of individual nations and, in the long run, to the disappearance of sovereign states. the suicidal process of building a european superstate must not continue. the euro-constitution and all its substitutes must be rejected. it is not necessary for the cooperation of free european states. it is rather necessary to start a debate immediately on the question of guaranteeing the rights of nations in the modern world, and in particular in europe. it is significant that the advocates of the euroconstitution avoid the word sovereignty, as if panic-stricken by it. they graciously offer us the right to an identity that can be preserved even in captivity. the euroconstitution is an attack on the sovereignty of the nation states, their freedom and self-determination. let the nations live in freedom! the european nations want to live in their own sovereign states!
member of the commission. mr president, we must give peace a chance in the middle east. we know how difficult it is and we all know about the challenges, but we all know about the new hopes and we have clearly explained the situation. what is necessary is, on the one hand, to achieve a certain level of security, and a better security situation first to the palestinians within gaza, but also in the west bank. that is very true. both we and americans are working with the palestinians to come to such a solution, but unfortunately we are not yet completely there. second, there needs to be greater economic freedom in order to improve the daily lives of the palestinians. this is also what we are trying to do. we also said very clearly that we want to engage with this national unity government according to the actions and the programme. salam fayyad is, therefore, our preferred interlocutor to see what else can be done. i have very clearly said what could be done. i would like to repeat to you that in addition to from our continuous work with the temporary international mechanism – that i would have liked to phase out as soon as possible, but i cannot do so because there humanitarian assistance is still necessary – we offered salam fayyad technical assistance in the area of audit, revenue collection and customs. we are currently working with the ministry to define the delivery of assistance, but we are also resuming institution-building where it is important. we are trying to go for development assistance in order to give more hope to the population, but it is true that a lot of political courage and political will is necessary, first and foremost on the part of the parties to the conflict. we members of the quartet can only support them, we can push them, we can encourage them and this is what we are trying to do, but we cannot, unfortunately, take the decision for them. that is the limit of our action. i hope that the next meeting in the region will be a positive one and will be the trigger to this political vision and political horizon that we all have so much in our minds. we hope and plead for the release of all the political prisoners. that means the abducted israeli soldier and the bbc journalist alan johnston, but also all the members of the palestinian government and all the others that are still imprisoned. i think this would be very good momentum that could be brought about in order to find the next steps towards this two-state solution that we all so clearly wish for.
high representative for cfsp. mr president, i am not going to repeat what i and others who have contributed to the debate have already said. i would first of all like to thank all the members of parliament who contributed, those who are still here and those who have left. i think it has been a very interesting debate, and i would like to make an observation on it. when i come to the european parliament to discuss the middle east, i have the feeling that emotions run high, starting with my own. but i think that our debates have to be about the events which are important at a given time. today we are in a very difficult situation, but at the same time, as has been said, it is a time of hope, which did not exist for a long time. i have been involved in the middle east for many years. i was at the madrid conference and at the last conference at camp david. not since camp david have i perceived us to be any closer than i feel we are today to the beginning of real, meaningful communication and exchange and therefore the beginning of a political horizon, and a debate and negotiations about that. there are three reasons for this. one is that the arab league initiative is something that was missing at the time of camp david. we have it today, and we have the engagement of the arabs to embrace whoever the palestinian negotiator is going to be, in order to sustain him and to give the support which, as you know, was not there at the time of camp david. secondly, 40 years have elapsed. i think everybody is exhausted: psychologically, physically and politically. out of this exhaustion i think that we have to muster new psychological and political energy in order to move forward. thirdly, we have a mechanism – the quartet – and sometimes we do not realise how much effort goes into that. for the first time we have the united states and the european union at the same table negotiating with the parties, which has never happened before. we have to recognise that. this is the first time that the european union has been at the negotiating table. the russian federation was in madrid and then disappeared. there was also the secretary-general of the united nations – imagine for a moment what that means – the united nations negotiated in this conflict. it was impossible to imagine at that time. i believe that to a certain extent all these elements change the horizon of what can be done now. we must now try to move on, try not to falter and try to continue working in that direction. conditions have changed and therefore we have more hope that it can be achieved. will it be achieved in 24 hours? no. if you think that we will find the solution to all the problems by the end of this month, you are wrong: we will have to wait a bit longer than that. but let us see whether we have the opportunity to move the process forward. as a final thought, i would like to stress that we are europeans here. everyone here is a member of the european union. sometimes we have to be a little proud of what we do. if you go to palestine, as you do, you hear the criticism. but probably, if you really talk in depth to the palestinians and israelis, you will find a growing sympathy and understanding – you have to agree with me about that – for the way in which europeans are doing things. i think that we europeans have to recognise that every now and then. otherwise we will never move forward collectively, as we need to do. moving this process forward is not an effort for one or two: it is an effort for everybody. we have an opportunity. let us see whether next time we meet we see progress. we will not see the solution, but let us see whether we make progress.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the next partsession in strasbourg. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on the fifth session of the un human rights council, to be held in geneva from 11 to 19 june 2007.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, the european union, like the united states of america, stands on the watch to protect human rights in the world. it's the one of our many politicians that has brought us the most popularity on a planetary scale. unfortunately, the european union does not always have its proper place in the chamber. for example, in november, at the world conference on climate change in kenya, the european union delegation sat in the place of finland, our presidency at the time. we need to have our own place there as a union to make our voice heard more, and there are many problems to be solved in the world, for example, in israel where hamas threatens to destroy israel, and the israelis are already destroying the palestinian people.
mr. chairman, please! more than a year ago, the european parliament welcomed with cautious approval the creation of a un human rights council to replace the compromised commission on human rights. we hoped that the new council would be one of the reforming bodies of the un and would make a major contribution to greater respect for human rights in the world. the european union, the member states and the european parliament delegations participated actively in the council's work. it is time to sum up the council's first year of activity. unfortunately, the new council cannot be seen as a breakthrough in the un's human rights work. the interests of the various states continue to take precedence over the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms at stake. this is the best example of the inability of the human rights council to address the situation in darfur. in march, a report was adopted on the tragic situation in the region, but the council as a whole was unable to draw logical conclusions from it and to raise the question of the political responsibility of the sudanese authorities for the situation in that country. at the same time, israel is the only country to have been condemned by the council eight times. this shows the imbalance in the council's work and the political attitude of this institution. the fifth council meeting, to which the european parliament's delegation is travelling, will begin in a few days' time. the new council members are the netherlands, slovenia, italy and, from the european countries, bosnia and herzegovina. they avoided compromise by not electing belarus, ruled by lukashenko's authoritarian regime, to the council. the european union countries should continue to be involved in the work of the council in order to transform this institution into a genuine forum for respect for fundamental freedoms. what is at stake is an effective human rights policy in the modern world, reform of the un, and, let us be clear, the seriousness of the european union itself.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. crime and terrorism are now among the greatest threats to the daily lives of the people of the european community. it is clear that cooperation between the member states should be strengthened in the exchange of information on persons posing a potential threat. however, it should be borne in mind that sensitive data concerning union citizens cannot be made available to police and border guards in the course of a routine check. of course, wherever possible, these services should have such information in relation to third-country nationals, especially those from whom crime may be spreading. it is, of course, another matter for the member states' special services and the investigating authority to have sensitive data in the event of the likelihood of the persons concerned being members of criminal groups. i agree with the legal affairs committee that this issue should be settled on the basis of the provisions of the treaty on european union, since some of the provisions of the resolution fall within the competence of the sovereignty of the member states of the union.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that we have managed to reach a common parliamentary vote on the prüm case. the compromise amendments show that some issues should still be considered by the council. the european parliament thus notes, and it must be emphasized, that the method of negotiation in a small group and attempts to incorporate into eu law previously adopted provisions is not a good method. it is a method that puts member states on an unequal footing, bypasses parliament and raises serious legal, institutional and political concerns. so this should be the exception, not the rule, and also a warning not to do this with other third-pillar issues in the future. everyone agrees that we need a visa system to better implement visa policy. we must realize that the adoption of the legal basis is only the beginning. we know the history of sis ii. the pressure was on to adopt the legal basis quickly, and then it turned out that the technical implementation was facing serious problems. efforts are therefore needed to translate the law into reality and practical action so that the operational implementation of the visa system can take place in spring 2009. finally, on the subject of mrs roure's report, i would like to say that we all seem to be hoping that an agreement with the council on this matter is possible. the protection of personal data in the third pillar, which is very often highly sensitive data, should not be weaker than the protection in the first pillar. recognising the legal constraints we have, i hope that the compromises reached in parliament will become law as soon as possible and will no longer be an obstacle to the implementation of a unified visa and sis management system on time.
mr. chairman, please! there is much discussion today about the recognition of kosovo as an independent state based on the will of the people living there. i think that this argument is not sufficient, because historical reasons must be taken into account first, the interest of the state as a whole second, and the international order third. let us remind you that kosovo is the historical cradle of serbia, and who among us has not heard of the battle of kosovo polje? if we now recognise the independence of the state of kosovo on the basis of the will of the people, then abkhazia, south ossetia, transnistria are already in line, and perhaps the creation of the islamic republic of southern france with its capital in marseille in 2020 and the arab emirates in paris in 2050, as some have already announced. i warn against making a hasty decision based on the will of the majority of the population in a given area.
mr. chairman, please! as a doctor, i particularly appreciate transplantation, which saves the lives of many patients condemned to death without transplants, but commissioner kyprianou's statement on the introduction of the directive setting minimum standards and the european donor card, especially in view of the omission of ethical amendments from various eu documents, threatens various abuses, especially since the euthanasia process is legal in some countries of the european union. the european charter of donors, and even more so the presumed consent in conditions of moral expansion, is fraught with the danger of not attempting to treat the sick, and even of killing for the sake of obtaining organs, as the press has recently reported. under these circumstances, consent to organ transplantation after death should be confirmed by the consent of the next of kin and family after obtaining a document confirming brain stem death, which could to some extent prevent abuse.
mr. chairman, please! it is just three weeks since the eu-russia summit in samara, where poland once again refused to accept the eu mandate needed to start negotiating a new agreement, saying that finnish proposals for support and engagement in resolving the trade dispute with russia were not enough. it is now clear that the polish embargo is not just a problem for our country, but for the whole european union. we are therefore pleased that the union has strongly supported our decision, stressing the importance of the principle of solidarity. it should be remembered, however, that the embargo on polish meat and vegetable products has been in place for more than a year and a half and is primarily affecting polish businesses. how long can we tolerate this? a permanent and enhanced dialogue is essential for an effective settlement of the conflict, which, as can be seen from the lack of any progress so far at bilateral level, will no longer be possible without the support of eu diplomats. we must move from theory to practice as quickly as possible and finally find a way out of this impasse. the weeks that followed showed that we were still stuck in the same exact spot.
mr. chairman, please! on 5 june, an interesting meeting took place in the committee on agriculture and rural development with horst seehofer, german minister for food, agriculture and consumer protection, who is the president of the council. the president made clear the departure from the common agricultural policy and the need to speed up the work of the european commission on this matter. we learned, among other things, that there would be no milk quotas after 2015 and that this could cause temporary difficulties. it therefore appears that the cap will most likely only function until the new member states have made full payments. so many questions are being raised, such as why we were not informed of this during the negotiation of the conditions of accession and, since we are subject to the consultation formula, why preparatory work has already begun to change the common agricultural policy without agreement with the member states, with the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw your attention to a particularly dangerous phenomenon which has emerged in the work on the consumer credit directive and which significantly undermines the role which the european parliament plays in the legislative process by virtue of the treaty. despite the parliament's strong commitment to the work on the document, and the repeated requests to the commission and the council to develop studies on the impact of this directive on the eu economy, including european banks and consumers, these institutions have successively refused to carry out such studies. parliament therefore carried out its research in the belief that such a significant directive could not be adopted without the certainty that it would be beneficial and not become another bureaucratic burden for the member states. however, they were not taken into account by the commission or the council in any way. it is therefore worthwhile to consider why parliament's voice is being ignored and, more importantly, whether a proposal for a directive which will have such a large impact on raising costs for banks and which may not necessarily contribute to improving the situation of consumers should be adopted without adequate examination of its purpose and its impact on the union economy.
mr. chairman, please! after three years of the presence of new member states in the european union, these countries are still discriminated against in the allocation of the budget on the fruit and vegetable market. among the many calculations that show this discrimination, the most synthetic and objective is the amount of the subsidy per hectare of land under cultivation. and so, in 2005, in the old union, these subsidies were €560 per hectare, and in the new union, only €20 per hectare. so the poor get 28 times less support than the rich. this is what solidarity and the chance to level the playing field looks like in practice. discrimination against the new member states on the fruit and vegetable market is also a blow to consumers and agriculture across the union. i therefore call for a vote in favour of the amendment to mrs salinas garcía's report by the uen members, which at least partially eliminates the discrimination against the new member states. the rejection of this amendment would be a compromise of the common agricultural policy, its principles and objectives. it will also show that the old member states are not capable of building a strong european agriculture.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the status of cultural creators has always been a subject of interest and lively debate. however, the initiators of the development of the status always made the same mistake, forgetting that alongside professional artists, amateurs also create, including folk artists, and that folk culture, often called traditional, is the basis of national cultures. we must also bear in mind that, with the change of civilisation, many traditional occupations and skills that are important for the preservation of the national cultural heritage are disappearing. the proposed european social charter for artists should therefore also cover folk artists and artists working in folk crafts. the initiative to create a common database to support the mobility of artists working in europe is also to be welcomed.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank you all for a very interesting debate. i believe that this report will help to boost not only dialogue, but also cooperation in europe in favour of artists’ creativity and culture. i liked the approach of mrs pack, because she is very enthusiastic and usually those people are far ahead of the developments, but we need such an approach. in 1992, 15 years ago, most people, especially the member states, did not want to touch culture, because subsidiarity is a sensitive subject. now people want to do more through culture, because other realities are there: the market, the euro. the problem is rather intangible. i do not say that we need harmonisation, but we need better conditions for cultures to flourish in order to build understanding, intercultural relations and so on. therefore, last monday’s communication was the first in 50 years where the commission set a kind of political manifesto and proposed a common cultural agenda. we propose to organise a kind of annual forum, the davos forum, which will bring together member states, stakeholders and the european institutions to discuss, move forward and provide answers to cultural issues. concerning new programmes – erasmus has been mentioned a few times – this year we will have three times as many opportunities to increase mobility or triple the intensity of erasmus. however, we need compatibility of studies or recognition of diplomas, degrees and qualifications. i proposed last autumn – and this is also in parliament’s and the council’s ‘european qualifications framework’ – making our qualifications more readable, comparable and transferable. please make your contributions in autumn or by the end of this year, under the portuguese presidency. to conclude, there have been many calls for visas. visa facilitation is already in place, and i hope the member states – with the exception of ireland, the uk and denmark – will enforce such visa facilitation for students to improve mobility of students and others. for workers, which means professionals, in september we want to bring forward proposals on two important directives. the first is a proposal for a horizontal framework directive on the basic rights of all labour migrants. this proposal will provide for the creation of a combined residence and work permit in order to reduce administrative red tape. the second is even more important in this respect, because of what many of you have said. it is a proposal for a directive on the admission of highly-skilled workers. this directive may, in certain cases, directly apply to third-country artists and grant them facilitated access to eu labour markets. we can go back 15 years or 5 years, but now is the time to move, and together we can do something.
member of the commission. mr president, firstly i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr chmielewski, and to both the committee on fisheries and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the report. the objective is to have the proposal agreed at the june council next week. during discussions held in the context of the council preparations, many changes have been introduced to the original proposal, some of which go in the direction of your suggested amendments. as you are well aware, both cod stocks in the baltics suffer from over-exploitation, with the eastern cod stock falling so far below safe biological limits that it may be in risk of collapse in the near future. at the same time, ices has indicated that misreporting of catches occurs in 35 to 45% of cases in the eastern baltic, which not only results in an additional unaccounted fishing impact on the stock but also affects the accuracy of scientific advice. the current situation not only harms the cod stocks in the baltic but is also threatening the fishing sector reliant on this resource. cod is one of the most important fish stocks for the industry in the baltic. it is therefore crucial, not only from an ecological but also from a social and economic perspective, to bring fishing into balance with resource availability as soon as possible, so that fishers can once more count on stable and high catches. the multiannual plan presented by the commission has been developed on the basis of past experience with managing cod fisheries in the baltic and on several consultations held with stakeholders, member states and scientists. it aims at rebuilding the stocks not only towards safe biological limits but even beyond, to levels that will provide the highest sustainable catches, thus providing stability in the long term for the fishing sector concerned, by reducing total allowable catches and fishing efforts step-by-step to the levels corresponding to this objective. turning now to the report, the recitals of the plan correspond to the measures that are later outlined in the actual provisions. i can therefore only accept amendments 1 and 5, which correspond to the provisions of the plan, such as the request to specify the status of the eastern cod stock in the first recital. amendment 4 is acceptable in principle. however, the split into western and eastern parts is determined by scientific evidence that there are two separate cod stocks in the baltic, and not by the ecological features of the two areas. the report proposes several amendments to the rules outlining the procedure for reducing total allowable catches and fishing effort to sustainable levels. amendments 8 to 11 would result in a mitigation of the reduction process and would limit its application. in view of the serious situation of the stock and the need to limit all types of fisheries catching significant amounts of cod, i cannot accept these amendments. i am, however, aware of the need to define a system that the industry can deal with. the commission has therefore changed its plan by combining the summer ban and the days absent from port. this will increase flexibility for the industry, and will thus particularly benefit small-scale fleets, for which a fixed and rigid system is more difficult to work with. moreover, an article on the european fisheries fund has been included in the plan to ensure financial compensation for the industry. changes to the effort system mean that several of the provisions on control and monitoring have also been changed. the margin of tolerance has been raised to 10%, except for cod, and the rules on discharging have been deleted, which should correspond to the provisions of amendments 14 and 16 of the report. concerning amendment 15, the rules on entry and exit from the area have been changed as well, meaning that the specified requirements apply only where the vessel is leaving the area in which it has been fishing. as misreporting is presently one of the key problems in the management of the baltic cod fishery, it is crucial to improve these rules to monitor comprehensively how much is taken from which cod stock, and when. for similar reasons, i cannot accept amendment 13, which limits the requirement for a log book to vessels with a special permit for cod fishing. the report proposes to reduce the valuation period from three to two years and to introduce a provision on the monitoring of the socio-economic impact of the plan in amendments 17 to 19. new cod recruits enter the fishery at the age of two to three years on average. if an evaluation began during the second year, it would be very difficult to detect any effects on the stock and, consequently, on the industry. the commission is, however, planning a project that will monitor not only the ecological but also the socio-economic impact of the plan as a first step towards the impact assessment to be made in the third year of the application of the plan. finally, i turn to the three amendments tabled by mr schlyter last week. they are not acceptable to the commission for the following reasons. the objective of the basic regulation for the common fisheries policy is to ensure sustainable management in ecological, social and economic terms. it is therefore the commission’s responsibility to strive for a balance between these three pillars, albeit based primarily on scientific advice regarding the stocks. i thus consider a gradual reduction of tacs and fishing efforts until target levels are met, as advised by ices, to be a good balance in this respect. ices also recommended using relative targets such as fishing mortality instead of fixed ones such as biomass, because they are less sensitive towards scientific uncertainty and the environmental variations affecting the stock. in the current situation whereby a high level of misreporting is interfering with management and scientific advice and in view of the possible upcoming revision of the biomass reference points for the eastern stock, the inclusion of biomass targets is not appropriate. however, as an expected outcome of the plan is the improvement of the basis of scientific information, the inclusion of biomass reference levels could be considered in the course of the revision of the cod recovery plan, which is envisaged to take place after the plan has been in force for three years.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the council regulation in question is an important legislative proposal, long overdue, which seeks to address the vital needs of fisheries in one of europe's most specific waters. for that, at least, the authors of the document deserve congratulations. they have undertaken the difficult task of devising a long-term recovery and fishing programme for baltic cod, a fish that is the lifeblood of many families. it is the most important fish in the baltic and therefore of great interest to fishermen. the opinion of the parliament and the subsequent council decisions are genuinely emotional in the baltic. the report, which was likely to produce satisfactory compromises in these circumstances, relied on verified data and took as a starting point scientific forecasts on cod stock development and fishing opportunities. the necessary intervention by the fisheries committee in the council's legislative proposal was due to the need to take account in the document of the inevitable socioeconomic consequences of the announced fishing restrictions - i am glad that the commissioner has spoken about this. the rapporteur's amendment, which obliges the european commission to monitor these effects and to propose to parliament the necessary remedies, was adopted. the amendment recommending a reduction from 10 to 8%, i am speaking for the committee on fisheries, of the limitations on the number of fishing days required by the regulation, and an increase from 100 to 300 kilograms of the so-called reported limit, was also accepted. the commission also adopted a proposal from the eu council of ministers to change the margin of error in fishing logbook records from 8% to 10%. the proposal to increase the minimum size of cod caught in the baltic to 40 centimetres was also supported. it is difficult to escape the impression that the corrective programme contained in the document was substantially influenced by the belief that the fishing capacity of the baltic cod fleet is at the present stage far too high in relation to the available fishing quotas. however, there is still no proposal at eu level or at member state level for a systemic solution to this problem. there is a growing consensus that automatic decisions on scrapping the fleet should be avoided. instead, solutions should be sought to maintain a certain fishing capacity until the stock is restored. we must have something to fish for. i think that sooner or later the question of the length of the closed summer periods will be included in the discussion of the plan for the recovery of cod, as the commissioner has also said today. it should be noted that member states seeking to further reduce fishing effort by introducing additional cod days tend to prefer the so-called days at sea rather than the closed periods as in the past. the scientific consultations accompanying the general discussion of the council regulation indicate the need for a revision of the biological benchmark assessments that have been used so far, and i am also glad that the commissioner has mentioned this today. in addition, none of the baltic states is in principle opposed to the introduction of fishing mortality as a means of defining the objectives for the implementation of the multiannual plan for the recovery of baltic cod - i recall article 4 of the plan. it is necessary to have a thorough discussion on the biomass reference point level which is adapted to the actual state of the stock and the overall situation of the baltic sea ecosystem at the present time. this will be in line with the community's commitment to implement an ecosystem approach to fisheries management, recalling point 5 of the preamble. the current limit points, i stress, were adopted in 1998 on the basis of data from the 1970s and 1980s. they cannot therefore be adequate to the current herd dynamics. finally, it should be noted that the intention of the earlier council regulation 2371/2002, cited in the document under examination, was to exercise caution when making fundamental changes to the fisheries policy, caution relating both to the management of the stock and to the assessment of the socioeconomic effects of those changes. this principle should continue to apply after the accession of the new baltic four to the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i would firstly like to thank you for the number of points that have been raised. i think it is clear that we share a common objective, that of ensuring the long-term sustainability of cod stocks in the baltic and thus the livelihood of the fishers in the region. while we may differ on the means of achieving this objective, i have no doubt that our aim is the same. on the specific points raised, i would like to make the following points. firstly, we must propose schemes for effort limitations and take into account the effort exerted by small-scale fleets since their catches represent around 50% of total catches. we are, however, ready to consider flexible mechanisms in order to enable them to apply the plan without it being too much of a burden. i would like to stress that the eastern cod stock has been declining continuously over the last decades, as has the average catch size. the serious situation of this stock is therefore self-evident and, while it is crucial to take account of the socio-economic perspective, it is primarily the ecological status which requires recovery, that is of paramount importance. in this regard, an annual reduction of 10% has been identified as the minimum in order to be able to detect changes in the development of the stock status or the sector deriving from the plan. a decrease of the annual reduction would also confront the sector with a longer reduction period and therefore delay the benefit of bigger and more stable catches and would make it unlikely that the msy levels can be reached before 2015, as is required under the johannesburg commitment. finally, it is important to underline that control is the key issue, particularly in this fishery. we hope to reach a solid and workable solution to this issue in the council next week.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mr villego itälä on behalf of the committee on budgets on the european parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2008 (a6-0202/2007).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mrs maría isabel salinas garcía, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down specific rules for the fruit and vegetables sector and amending certain regulations (com (2007) 0017 - c6-0075/2007 - 2007/0012 (cns)) (a6-0183/2007).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the reform of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables is one of the last reforms not yet covered by the 2003 reform and one of the most important reforms in the current financial perspective. i would like to congratulate mrs salinas garcía on her objective report, which takes account of many aspects relevant to both the old and the new member states. since my colleague has essentially exhausted what we would like to say in parliament, i will focus only on the soft fruit sector, which is of priority importance for the new member states. the reform must include effective solutions in this sector, taking into account the need to maintain the profitability of the cultivation of these fruits in the community and to ensure an adequate level of income for community producers. soft fruit is a sensitive product and should be treated in the same way as other products recognised as sensitive in the community. it is necessary to apply to the soft fruit sector a separate payment outside the saps envelope, intended exclusively for soft fruit producers. support in the form of a separate area payment would contribute to the restructuring, efficiency and competitiveness of the sector and thus to stabilising the level of incomes of soft fruit producers.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this reform is right, but unjust. five years ago, in copenhagen, unfair rules were set for the new member states whose farmers received aid many times lower than that of the old union. we've accepted this, hoping that in time, we'll be treated equally. the successive reforms of the cap, meanwhile, perpetuate an unfair division between the better and the worse. the reform of the fruit and vegetable market is an example of this. the old union has received hundreds of millions of euros and will continue to receive them. the new union is given a token amount. i ask you, where is the real support for concentrated soft fruit production in the new member states? why has the commission not responded to the european parliament's resolution of october last year? we hear calls for support for a european constitution and threats that if it is not adopted we will have a two-speed europe, but in agriculture we already have a two-tier europe - the better old union, which retains its status as it was before, and the worse new union, which cannot wait to be treated equally. we have tabled an amendment which provides for the inclusion of soft fruit production - cherries and apples for processing - in the reform and, consequently, an increase in the national envelopes of the member states by eur 148 million. i ask you to support this amendment. it is a small sum on a union scale, but it is not just a question of money, it is a matter of principle. we respect the accession treaties, but if we introduce new rules, we will no longer be divided into 15 better and 12 worse countries. there must be equal rights for all 27 member states. the uen group, which brings together members from both the old and new member states, is strongly calling for this. we want reform that is not just right, but fair.
mr. chairman, please! in this well-known injustice in the fruit and vegetable market, there is finally something that is moving in the right direction. after long discussions, an anti-dumping price was first introduced for chinese strawberries, unfortunately for such a short period, and then a minimum price, unfortunately too low. we now have the opportunity to grant additional subsidies for cherries, cherries, soft fruit such as raspberries, strawberries, black currants and currants. without this supplement, many of the farmers affected by the frost would certainly go bankrupt. the committee on agriculture and rural development, in its amendment no 116 to the regulation, proposes an aid of eur 120.77 per hectare. i believe that this is too low and will not solve the basic problems of the farmers and that it should be increased to eur 400 per hectare. the apple orchard owners were also affected by the frost. they're in a tough situation, too, waiting for help. that's why i'm asking the members to accept amendment no. 113, which is against all expectations of help.
mr. chairman, please! mrs garcía's report is of vital importance to the agricultural production sector, but it does not treat producers in the old and new member states on an equal footing. support for farmers in the form of direct payments is of particular interest to countries with a fragmented agricultural structure, small farms and monocultures whose income is barely enough to continue their activities. the production of these farms is traditional and environmentally friendly. the amended regulation should equalise the chances of farmers in the old and new member states to receive the payments. the efficiency of fruit and vegetable production is difficult to predict not only because of their easy spoilage, price instability and competition in third countries, but also because of the impact on its profitability of climate change and the increasing frequency of natural disasters. the spring frosts in poland, for example, resulted in the freezing of 70% of the flowers of carnations, plums, pears and cherries. polish fruit growers and gardeners estimate that this year's losses are as high as 60%. in the regulation, amendments nos 6, 7 and 12 concerning recitals 11, 13 and 18 and amendment no 113 require special support.
mr. chairman, please! the debate today and the vote tomorrow on the report on fruit and vegetable market reform brings to an end a period of work in the european parliament lasting several months. i think that in that time we have succeeded in highlighting the problems facing the soft fruit market in poland and in convincing the majority of meps that appropriate support instruments should be introduced to help restructure and increase the competitiveness of this sector, which in the new member states is characterised by fragmented production and weak organisation within producer groups and organisations and by a particular sensitivity to crises. the existing support instruments and those proposed in the draft cmo reform for fruit and vegetables do not provide adequate assistance and are not able to effectively address the problems encountered in these markets. therefore, in order to improve the income situation and stabilise the fruit and vegetable market, we are requesting a special payment for growers of soft fruit and cherries for processing. i would ask you to look at amendment no 132, which i tabled with mrs herranz garcia on behalf of the ppe-de group. i also ask for your support for amendment no 122, which relates to the support of the market for tomatoes destined for processing in the new member states by applying the saps system. its adoption would mean that tomato producers in these countries would continue to receive the support they currently receive. commissioner, polish soft fruit growers don't understand two things. first, why do they have to wait so long for the right offers? secondly, why, with a budget of over 1.5 billion euros a year for the organisation of the fruit and vegetable market, the european commission cannot find a few tens of millions to support the soft fruit sector. strawberries, raspberries, and currants are to the polish farmer what oranges, tangerines, and figs are to their southern european counterparts. well, let us hope that at the next eu-27 agriculture ministers' council you will propose appropriate support for this group of farmers. i wish you a fruitful negotiation.
mr. chairman, please! the fruit and vegetables sector is of great importance for eu agriculture, including for the agriculture of countries such as poland. unfortunately, the solutions proposed are not in our best interest. first, by making major changes in this sector, support for the old member states is proposed at the current level, while the new countries are treated as if they were not members of the union but were still candidates for membership. it is certainly not in line with the principle of european solidarity to support national envelopes of countries such as italy, greece and spain with amounts ranging from eur 316 million to eur 167 million, while the polish envelope, with such a significant fruit and vegetable sector, will be increased by only eur 6.7 million. secondly, there is no preference for producer groups in the new member states, which is likely to result in the amount of almost eur 700 million per year going mostly to producer groups and their associations in the old member states. finally, thirdly, the reform ignores the issue of the increasing openness of the eu market to imports of fruit and vegetables from third countries. the european union has a trade deficit of over eur 8 billion a year in this sector. these imports are often dumped, destroying the eu's fruit and vegetable production.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to conclude quickly, because it is late. i would like to stress again the very constructive cooperation that we have had on the food and vegetable reform. i think your opinion supports the general line of the commission proposals and the improvements that are being contemplated. i would like to make a few comments because i am sure that some members of this parliament did not listen to my first speech, when i talked about the soft fruit sector. i made it clear that i am aware of the difficulties in the soft fruit sector within the european union. i am ready to take into account the sensitivity of the sector and to try to find money within the budget to support this sector for a transitional period. but do not expect the figures that you mentioned. i think you said eur 800. this cannot be achieved within the budget. however, i have clearly said that i will do my very best to find a solution. i believe that the anti-dumping measures taken in april have clearly been a step in the right direction. problems faced due to frost will be handled separately. it is possible to deal with specific situations involving climatic catastrophes within the state aid rules, so we will try to handle this issue separately. a question was raised on funding. in my opinion, trying to create a fund outside the producer organisations is not really simplification. as you know, simplification is very high on the commission's agenda. it will be a very complex instrument and we have to take into account the fact that we have to act within an annual budget. we could lose quite a lot of money on the fund's construction because it is multi-annual, but i am sure that we will find a decent solution and a crisis management tool that can work efficiently. i hope that it will be possible to achieve a political agreement at the council meeting next monday and tuesday. i am quite sure that we will manage to find a political agreement that will benefit the whole fruit and vegetable sector within the european union, so that it will have a sustainable future, which, i presume, is what we all want.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. after three years of the presence of new member states (nms) in the european union, these countries are still discriminated against in the allocation of the budget on the fruit and vegetable market. this is clearly indicated by the amount of subsidies per hectare of land used for fruit and vegetables. in 2005, in the old union (eu-15), these subsidies were €561/ha, and in the new (eu-10) only €20/ha. thus, the poor receive 28 times less support than the rich! there is no reason for this discrimination. npcs have brought many important and at the same time specific products into the eu. at the same time, they have had and continue to have problems with the profitability of the production of these species, resulting inter alia from cheaper imports from third countries and fragmentation of production. they had reason to expect recognition of these difficulties and to benefit from the various forms of support that the old member states receive. the european commission has carried out numerous consultations, pseudo-analyses, missions and in its market reform proposal it still maintains the discrimination against npcs. it has also ignored our parliament, which in its resolution of 11 may 2005 called for, among other things, the eu's support for soft fruit, cherries, cherries and apples for processing as soon as possible! discriminating against the new member states on the fruit and vegetable market will not only harm npc farmers, but also the whole union and its consumers!
mr. chairman, please! the european union summit can only launch an effective effort to reform the treaty on one condition: it must show flexibility and a willingness to compromise with countries that have expressed doubts about certain provisions of the treaty. chancellor angela merkel has shown a lot of goodwill so far, and that's why i'm appealing to germany today not to lose that capital at the very end of her presidency. do not be fooled by those politicians who reject compromise, who today threaten to reject the treaty unless it contains a charter of rights or a set of institutional changes. constitutional fanaticism is not a good way out of the crisis today. we will take the next step on treaty reform if the forthcoming european union summit adopts a broad, flexible negotiating mandate on the division of competences, the rules of external representation, constitutional symbols and the voting system in the council. otherwise, we will continue to waste time in complacency about our own stubbornness. i doubt europe would expect us to do that.
mr. chairman, please! for two years now, the european union has been searching for a sensible solution to the crisis created by the rejection of the constitutional treaty by the french and dutch people. during the so-called reflection period, various options were developed to improve the functioning of the union's backbone structures. in fact, this period can be considered lost, since all that has been proposed is to weaken the old treaty while preserving most of its key provisions. the cut-up text is intended to be presented to those countries that have already ratified the original treaty as essentially the unchanged version, and to the other countries as a completely new compromise document. these actions go far beyond the mere manipulation of the peoples of europe. in addition, they are being deprived of the opportunity to express their views in referenda. i think we should oppose this very strongly.
mr. chairman, please! the forthcoming european council in brussels is expected to decide to start work on a new union treaty based on the rejected euro-constitution two years ago. it seems that it was decided long ago that the peoples of europe needed not only a common constitution but also what it should look like. meanwhile, national referendums in two eu member states have shown that the draft eu basic law is highly controversial. i hope that at the brussels summit in june there will be no unanimity on the opening of an intergovernmental conference to adopt a new eu treaty, and that polish government representatives will block further ideas for an eu superstate. instead of working on a common constitution, whatever it may be called, and strengthening the union's authority at the expense of national sovereignty, we should rather take up the issue of guaranteeing the rights of nations in the modern world.
mr. chairman, please! we believe this summit will succeed. the failure of the european council would show that we, the european politicians, are incapable of bringing the union out of its crisis and giving it new impetus. this is what most europeans expect, and contrary to what my polish colleagues, my predecessors, have said, this is also what poles expect, 73% of whom are satisfied with poland's membership of the european union and support the process of european integration. we therefore want a more integrated union, a deeper union, a union in which there is more community and less national egoism. this means more powers for the union, more community methods and a strengthening of the community institutions. this means, in short, more union. secondly, we also want a fairer union, one in which the voice of every citizen counts equally, whether he or she comes from a large, small or medium-sized country. we therefore expect the so-called primary method proposed by poland to be taken into account when defining the new decision-making mechanism in the council. thirdly, we want a union of solidarity, that is to say, one which remains true to its historical roots. the principle of solidarity is at the heart of the whole process of european integration. today, this solidarity is expressed in political solidarity, in the spirit of the principle 'all for one and one for all' when the interests of any of the community's member states are at stake, but it also means economic solidarity, that is, support for the weaker regions within the framework of cohesion policy. finally, we want a union that is efficient and effective, one that can meet the challenges of globalisation and the threats of the modern world, especially those that so easily cross national borders, a union that is able to fight terrorism and organised crime.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the german presidency on the adoption of an ambitious programme, and i congratulate it on its efforts to tackle the most important issues for the union. we have to make this summit work, but at this summit, it's not just the constitution that's going to be a big deal. chancellor merkel said at the beginning of her presidency: 'we will make europe together.' in that respect, it was a good presidency. first, the principle of solidarity was again the most important. we must also convert it into a common energy policy or a common immigration policy. secondly, the principle of the unity and cohesion of the union vis-à-vis the outside world was defended. no one can divide us, no one can divide us on the most important issues. it is still a key issue for the union. and thirdly, there has been a breakthrough in the functioning of the union. there were numerous bilateral talks, a return to the essential debate on the future of the union and its institutional capacity. i am convinced that such a major policy initiative is often not considered a success until many months or years later. but we must also remember that the union is a great technological race, a victory for the lisbon strategy. for development, chancellor merkel also said, technology, talent and tolerance are needed. we have made a very good start with the seventh framework programme, programmes relating to innovation, new technologies, but how do we keep talent on the european continent? how do we make ourselves more competitive? there's no answer to that yet. we will certainly associate the german presidency with the successes of the lisbon strategy, such as: new roaming charges, liberalisation of the energy market, or finally the opening of the services and labour markets, and this is also the merit of the european commission. it is important that at the next eu summit the eu member states also make a serious effort in this direction.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is one step away from an agreement on its future. it can remain an organization focused on its own problems, but it can also prepare itself properly to respond to global challenges. the voice of europeans, including poland and poles, is very important in this debate. i believe that the june european council should reach a political agreement on a european treaty, which should be based as much as possible on the constitutional treaty signed by all the member states of the european union in 2004. the new treaty should retain all the main innovations of the constitutional treaty, irrespective of its simplified form. the intergovernmental conference should start work immediately after the forthcoming summit, with a view to adopting the final text of the document by the end of this year, signing it at the beginning of next year and ratifying it before the european parliament elections in june 2009. to this end, the voting system adopted in the constitutional treaty, based on a double majority of states and citizens, should be maintained. this is what the social legitimacy of the european union's actions requires. the polish government's position, which aims to modify the voting system, means a return to the idea of influential markets in the union, the effect of which is the opposite of what was intended. i express my deep concern at the ambiguous attitude of the polish government in the ongoing negotiations. the polish position is completely illegible to the public in the country and to the european partners, which is why i call on the polish government to support a compromise on the european treaty.
in writing. despite the limitations on fishing quotas introduced in recent years, some of the baltic cod stocks are outside safe biological limits. the report rightly suggests reducing the number of days spent fishing with fishing gear by 8%, increasing inspections, including, in particular, raising to 300 kilograms the limit above which fishing vessels must obtain authorisation from the competent authorities at the place of landing, and increasing the minimum size of cod caught in the baltic to 40 centimetres. the rapporteur is right to refer to the question of the division of the baltic into an eastern and a western part, as they are entirely separate ecosystems. the fishing quotas should therefore be fixed separately for both parts of the aquarium. the eastern baltic should be given priority treatment because of the resources located outside safe biological limits. the plan to report on the socioeconomic impact of the application of the proposed regulation on the fisheries sector, with particular attention to the employment structure and economic situation of fishermen, shipowners and cod-fishing and cod-processing enterprises, should also be supported.
mr. chairman, please! montesquieu said that democracy is based on law, monarchy on honor, and dictatorship on fear. as we are a democratic body, i would like to say that i do not accept that other legal acts are invoked in legal acts that are not valid. i share mr bond's view and therefore i would like to point out that i wanted to vote against amendment no 25 to the crespo/brok report and if i voted for it by mistake, please note that i wanted to vote against it.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against the report today, which calls for the work to be started as soon as possible and for the draft of a new treaty on the union, a new european constitution, to be adopted. my group, the league of polish families, opposes the construction of a new european superstate and any attempt to abolish sovereign nation states. we hope that the work on a new treaty based on the draft euro-constitution, so pushed by some meps, will end in failure.
in writing. this is a very important report, through which the european parliament will be able to express its opinion on the action plan for the constitutional process in the european union at the forthcoming european council in june. every effort should be made to preserve the substance of the treaty, while introducing provisions on new challenges for europe, such as climate change, social europe, the fight against terrorism, intercultural dialogue and economic governance. at the same time, it is important to note that the 'mini-treaty' cannot be seen as a solution to this difficult situation. the european council should convene an intergovernmental conference as soon as possible and reach a compromise by the end of 2007 so that decisions on the ratification process can be taken by the end of 2008, while allowing the new parliament to act in 2009 under the new constitutional treaty.
in writing. the initiative of mep claire gibault to improve the working conditions of artists deserves our full support. most of the difficulties faced by artists working in community countries other than their country of origin are not cultural but are related to mobility, visa policy, health policy, social security, unemployment, pensions. the report encourages the commission and the member states to establish a 'european professional register' of the artist, which would indicate the status of the artist, the nature and duration of subsequent contracts, as well as data on his employers. such a register will allow the transfer of pension rights and social benefits acquired by artists from third countries upon their return to their country of origin and to take account of the experience acquired while working in one of the member states. the challenge for european cultural policy is to build a dynamic cultural, creative and innovative environment in all fields of the arts. by supporting this report, we are helping to offer artists the same social guarantees as all other european workers.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to your announcement of your participation in the august german congress of comrades, which is to be held in germany. mr. chairman, please! the german nationalists under the aegis of eryka steinbach and rudi pavelka are extremely revisionist organizations. they're questioning the potsdam agreement, they're questioning the borders between poland and germany, between the czech republic and germany. the ziomkostwa have territorial claims against poland, and there are currently about 170 of them in warmia and mazury alone. several lawsuits have been brought by the peasants, including to the european court of human rights. it's a great monstrosity done to the poles and the czechs. a serious institution like the european parliament and its president should not take part in the meetings of revisionist organisations, and you, mr president, should not be a patron of such activities on the international stage. i ask you, mr. president, as a member of the european parliament from warmia and mazury, to refuse to take part in the convention of revisionists and german compatriots.
mr. chairman, please! in the run-up to the european council, there is deep concern about attempts to discredit poland as the author of a compromise solution on the future voting system in the council. the priority system proposed by poland respects the principle of solidarity between member states, irrespective of their size. it also recognises the right of all members of the community to influence eu decisions and to defend national interests to the extent possible. the polish government considered this proposal without prejudging the final solution. it's in everyone's interest to continue to seek a compromise. it would be contrary to the principles of democracy for the german presidency to put pressure on the member states to block the debate on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i am forced to make an appeal today in the european parliament in defence of the polish health service. the current crisis in this area threatens the health of polish society and the dignity of doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals. the lower silesian voivodeship administration is taking measures that will actually lead to the liquidation of the specialist rehabilitation and orthopaedic health care team and the orthopaedic equipment factory at poświęcka street in wrocław. the liquidation of these two health care facilities is an act of extreme arrogance on the part of the provincial authorities. these centres are the only ones in lower silesia to provide a comprehensive service for disabled people from counselling through surgical procedures, rehabilitation and orthopaedic supplies. i would like to appeal, first of all, on behalf of the 420,000 disabled people in lower silesia, to stop the decision to close these centres.
mr. chairman, please! the european press recently reported that a powerful russian nuclear bomb was detonated in the gulf of andreeva, 25 miles off the coast of norway, capable of contaminating the northern parts of the continent. the spent uranium rods from russian nuclear reactors stored there could explode at any moment, causing an ecological disaster whose effects experts cannot even estimate. this is the result of the incomprehensible short-sightedness of the russian authorities and their disregard for environmental issues. in this respect, putin's governments are deceptively reminiscent of the approach so often represented in the soviet regime. there is no doubt that the ecological bomb at the bottom of andreev bay must be disarmed immediately. the european union states, in cooperation with norway, should immediately engage in intensive talks with the russian side and force it to take decisive action to secure the landfill. europe cannot afford another chernobyl.
that concludes the point of the proceedings.
the next item is the report by mr gunnar hökmarka, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the development of a european broadband policy (2006/2273 (ini)) (a6-0193/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the members for this very important task. this is a citizen-led policy, because neither the economy nor the market can bring broadband to the citizens in the regions. we all know that broadband is an accelerator of development and a reducer of inequalities, provided that citizens have access to it. so we have to deal with this access problem. i say 'we' because it is clear that the commissioner responsible for this matter cannot deal with it alone. that is why we have joined forces within the commission. so mrs kroes has started to work on this dossier - and i take this opportunity to thank her - a dossier in which she is deeply involved, and it must be said that state aid is an essential part of it. but there is also the commissioner responsible for rural development, the commissioner responsible for regional development and the commissioner responsible for consumers. a real pooling of responsibilities has therefore been achieved within the commission to solve the problems. i believe that mrs kroes has already told you that in the case of state aid, she has taken decisions to ensure that this aid is granted on very clear and very precise terms, at a time when the market itself is not enough to solve the problems. as regards the universal service, a broad discussion will be very useful. is it really necessary to extend the universal service, which does not include broadband today, or is it not necessary? i have already heard very different views in the debates this evening, and we will have to clarify them. that is why, with the green paper which i intend to present at the beginning of 2008, we are going to launch a broad debate which will enable us to see how to legislate or not to legislate in the future. as regards quite specific elements, it is clear that the commission will not only make speeches or organise conferences, such as the conference on bridging the digital divide in rural areas some weeks ago, but will also take specific action. for example, we will launch a website before the end of this year to act as a central information platform publishing calls for tender and providing a one-stop-shop for exchange of best practice. we hope that this website will become a virtual meeting point between suppliers and local governments. the second action concerns the new programming period of the structural funds and it includes the initiative 'regions for economic change', which aims to help member states implement the new lisbon strategy through action aimed at economic modernisation. this initiative includes two thematic networks on ict, broadband and e-government. finally, there will be the european transnational networks initiative that will help authorities planning transport and energy infrastructure and make them take account of the telecom needs as well, because deploying dacs and dac fibre alongside this infrastructure may reduce future telecom costs by 80%, so it will be very important to foresee the exploitation of synergies when making this kind of investment. having said that, i am also very aware of the fact that technologies such as wimax or satellites will be an alternative to fibre and dacs, for example. it has been asked whether we can provide more precise guidance regarding the use of structural funds, in particular where a partial supply of such a service already exists. since 2003, there have been guidelines for the use of structural funds in the electronic communications, but 2003 is a very long time ago in a field where technology is very fast-moving. that is why, over the past two years, the commission has developed the consistent decision practice of applying state aid rules to broadband support measures. most of the measures assessed contain structural fund co-financing. we have already issued 26 decisions in this area and those further clarify under which conditions public funds for broadband can be granted. having said that, i would also like to say that these eu funds are not allocated to private enterprises: they are allocated to public authorities and it is those public authorities, for example the regional authorities, who define their operational programmes. the commission does not supervise those projects except for the large projects over eur 50 million. those then undergo examination by dg regio, dg comm and/or dg infso. another point which has been made is the question of our citizens who suffer from some form of disability during their lifetime. now these may be disabled people, but we will also have an aging population. we have calculated that about 50% of our citizens will be disabled at least once during their lifetime. therefore, at the end of last month we issued a communication on ageing well in the information society. here we focus on making all ict services accessible to citizens and to help most of all those with special needs. i believe that this will go beyond the regional issues and the digital divide and will be one of the problems we will have to solve in the months and years to come. i would really like parliament to come forward on this issue, which will also be an important topic for discussion with our citizens, above all in the perspective of the european elections to come. i would like to make one last point. all this is wonderful, but we need spectrum and that is why we are working on having spectrum available for all these services which will be needed by one technology or another in our rural areas for our aging society. i am, of course, referring to health, but also to the issues of education and e-government, which are crucial elements. as for e-government, we will be holding a big ministerial conference, together with stakeholders, in september and will discuss how to make better use of the services in order to reach the population, important above all for the aging population and for people who live far from urban centres. secondly, the commission is working on making spectrum available for example for the 2.6 mhz band. i'm really counting on the positive effect of the digital dividend when we switch from analogue to digital, where we should be looking at the spectrum below 1 mb. this is very interesting indeed for the new services which we will need in order to have broadband for all. thank you, rapporteur, for the important work which has been done. this is only the beginning of the work we have to do together in order to make europe a place of balance between all citizens allowing them to access the new technology without a digital divide but, rather, with a digital dividend for our society.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 june 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr horst schnellhardt on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks (com ((2005) 0125 - c6-0440/2005 - 2005/0028 ((cod)) (a6-0035/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposal for a regulation on spirit drinks raises a legitimate objection for several reasons. first, the extension of the definition of vodka to include spirit drinks produced from non-traditional raw materials is contrary to the existing legal situation, to the economic interests of the existing producers and to the interests of consumers. secondly, the proposed changes will again lose the new member states, and in particular poland, which is one of the main producers of vodka in the european union and in the world. thirdly, it is another blow to farmers, producers of grain, potatoes and beets, with no chance of compensation from other crops. fourthly, the name 'vodka' is a proper name associated with a specific product obtained from a specific recipe and from specific raw materials such as cereals, potatoes and molasses. any product made from other raw materials will be a different product. therefore, it cannot be called vodka. he must have another name.
mr. chairman, please! after many months of work and lively discussions involving representatives of both alcohol and raw material producers, distributors and consumers, we are today considering the report by mr horst schnellhardt. unfortunately, the solutions it proposes are widely criticized, satisfying no one. the artificial division into three product groups, where the vodka group has no vodka, is for brandy, whiskey, rum, and brandy, and our bimber, or moonshine vodka, would fit in. the breakdown into individual names of alcohols, which gives the impression that it is more about cryptoreklamy than about solving the case, or the lack of logic in the way things are set up, means that, despite my sincere wishes and intentions, i fully support the negative opinions and will vote against this report.
mr. chairman, please! would the french agree to make champagne from plums? would the british be happy if they were allowed to produce fruit gin from apricots and fruit whisky from peaches? you know i'm not. that would be heresy. so it is no wonder that the poles, the lithuanians, the latvians, the estonians, the swedes, the finns, the danes, do not want to recognize as vodka any waste produced in the production of wine, or whiskey, or gin. let us be clear: is the european parliament to be held hostage by the powerful lobby groups of the alcohol producers in the southern european countries or in the united kingdom? do we want the public in our countries to see our parliament as a transmission belt for economic lobbies from different countries and different industries? if we don't want that, let's not agree to an absurdly broad definition of vodka.
mr. chairman, please! although the report on the definition of spirit drinks covers over 30 different types of beverages, i would like to focus on the most controversial issue the definition of vodka. the current definition of vodka was established many years before the main producers of vodka joined the union. they make the union the third largest producer of vodka in the world. the parliament should therefore adopt a definition of vodka which ensures the reputation and high standing of this alcohol on the market. maintaining the definition of vodka and production from waste will lower its quality and reputation. the trade name 'vodka' should be reserved only for vodka produced from traditional raw materials, i.e. cereals, potatoes and beet molasses. this definition was adopted by the european parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development. vodka produced from non-traditional raw materials should be identified by a trade name: 'non-traditional vodka', 'alcoholic spirit drink' or 'non-standard vodka', with a clear indication of the raw material used for its production. otherwise, we're fooling ourselves and our consumers. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to invite you all to a tasting and promotion of polish organic food: meat, juices and vodka from cereals and potatoes.
thank you very much. thank you. the member added a new element to this long, sometimes expert, passionate debate. i don't feel like i'm the custodian of this gift, but thank you.
madam president! maybe first, information that didn't come out of this room. last week the ppe group rejected the compromise proposed by the rapporteur. why did she say no? well, because she disagreed, by a small majority, but she disagreed with the definition of vodka that he proposed. thus, the majority supported the traditional view that vodka is made from grain, potatoes or beet molasses. and that's the amendment that my colleague stubb and i have tabled, and i'm asking for your support for that amendment. why was there talk of tradition, and you also acknowledge and i will say this, that countries, representatives of countries that have nothing to do with the vodka tradition, cannot behave like the conquistadors who came to the borders of south america and stole the gold of the maya. this is our tradition as producer countries and should have been recognised in this regulation. it should be noted that the european parliament has been subjected to unprecedented pressure from the council on this issue as well. one of the high-ranking officials sent a letter to the representatives of the 24 countries of the european union, not only citing the position of the influential lobby group european vodka alliance, but also did not send it to the representatives of the two countries most involved in the dispute: poland and lithuania. the votes of the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament, the economic and social committee have not been taken into account. copa - cogeca - eu farmers' organisations, and finally farmers themselves in the european union, all of these entities support the traditional definition. why would you do that? because it is the production of european potatoes and european cereals and 500 years of tradition that are supposed to determine the value of this product, not to change it solely under the influence of lobby groups. we demand equal treatment. traditionally produced vodka cannot be compared to alcohol, which is vodka-like. this would be contrary to the fundamental principles of the functioning of the european union.
madam president! russia is known for its lack of respect for ethical standards in economic relations, as well as for its lack of respect for human rights. this is a problem for all eu members, as the issue of flying over siberia shows. despite recent russian promises, european airlines using russian airspace still have to pay special charges that are not related to the normal costs of air traffic control services. this is a transit charge that is contrary to commonly accepted practices, and is not in accordance with international law. a similar example is the issue of polish meat, which, while meeting all eu standards, is not allowed on the russian market for reasons that have nothing to do with the market economy. for the same reason, russian consumers are deprived of georgian water or moldovan wine. this is as cynical as the case of garry kasparov, who was detained at the airport for so long that he never got there, even though he was not officially detained. that's how the russian federation works: everything looks fine. unfortunately, appearances are deceiving. europe should remember that.
madam president! for many years, the largest members of the union have accustomed russia to using political and economic blackmail against small and medium-sized european countries. that is why russia has done and is doing this, because it has only heard warnings from the european powers, which did not entail weakening political and economic cooperation. it is a scandal that the european food and veterinary office has repeatedly said that polish meat meets health standards, as i asked the inspectors when i visited ireland, and the russian government has publicly lied that the inspections showed otherwise. that's what russia says about the killing of civilians in chechnya, the world talks about the killings, and russia says it's propaganda. today, in this room, we have the impression that some of our colleagues want to sell poland's business for russian gas. thank you for your solidarity.
madam president! economic cooperation has a chance when economic actors are involved. where politics and government, the state as a party, come into play, there is a danger of subordinating the economy to political, even military, purposes. for perhaps the first time, russia has the financial resources to significantly raise the incomes and living standards of its citizens. but is that how he will use the profits from the mineral trade, or will he use them for military or other purposes? we don't know that. every now and then, president putin surprises europe with strong statements that make the knees of many western leaders tremble. nor do we know how the russian people will react to the accumulation of national wealth in the hands of a small group of advisers. i have to say, working with an unpredictable partner is very difficult. what do you do in this situation? i believe that after assuring that we want to have a peaceful economic and political partner in russia, after wishing the russian people a happy life at the level of european standards, we must proceed in such a way that russia treats the european union and each of its members as a friendly but determined and coherent partner - i mean the union. any partiality in the union will tempt russia to pursue a selective economic strategy, which is detrimental to our cooperation and to the cohesion of the union. the godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl report should be a signal to russia that we are guided by sound economic principles and a parity of respect for our partner, expecting reciprocity. only such cooperation will help to raise the economic standards of citizens. in conclusion, i would say that without this condition, there will be no cooperation, but rather renewed tensions, and i hope that both sides will understand this.
madam president! i commend the author of this report for addressing such an important topic and for honestly identifying problems and threats. it also has the advantage of being created at a time when russia is experiencing a slump caused by rising commodity prices. it translates into a qualitative change in russia's economic and trade attitudes and policies, to name the most important elements: the first is russia's consistent pursuit of control over the markets and the transport of raw materials, with the aim of making oil and gas an instrument of political pressure. the second is russia's consistent policy of offering special relations and privileges to some countries and discriminating against others in the european union under the divide et impera principle. the manifestation of such a policy, in this room, was the speech of the mp goebbels, who, contrary to the obvious facts, claimed, like the spokesman of russia, that it was she who was right in the dispute with poland. congratulations on the bias. in summary, russia, which is in a good position to export raw materials, has consistently used the international economic and trade structure to achieve its political goals. the union's response to such a policy should be a consistent strategy of speaking with one voice on all issues and, in line with the principle of defending the weakest link, defending and supporting those countries and economic sectors that are most dependent on russia.
madam president! in this debate, i would like to draw attention to two problems. first, at the turn of 2006 and 2007, the countries of the european union were threatened with a lack of natural gas supplies due to the dispute between russia and ukraine. and in january 2007, russia suspended oil supplies to western europe over a dispute with belarus. currently blocks the supply of crude oil to the możejki refinery after its purchase by the polish company orlen. these are unfortunately only some examples of russia's use of energy supplies as a tool for political influence on eu and non-eu countries, but also evidence of russia's lack of energy credibility. secondly, for over a year and a half, there has been a ban on the import of polish food into russia. it was only at the beginning of this year that the european union recognized that this is not just a polish problem, but a problem for the entire european union. unfortunately, despite the passing of several months and the growing evidence that the embargo is purely political, the european union has also failed to solve this problem. i would therefore like to express the hope that the european union will not only be consistent but also effective in resolving both cases.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i fully support the ban on the import of dog and cat fur - that is all we can do for the time being in the name of fighting human cruelty to animals. dogs and cats are animals that are specially related to man, serving man and showing him affection. cruelty to these animals is especially painful. we know that the harvesting of dog and cat fur is cruel and that the european union countries should not be indifferent to it. we have no control over the treatment of animals in other cultures, but we can at least say "no" to products that are inflicted with unimaginable animal suffering. we should say "we" to every cruelty, to whoever it touches. there's only one kind of vulnerability. a sensitive person never agrees to another being suffering - whether human or animal. the union makes sense if it becomes a community of people sensitive to every pain, to every suffering. i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's position and congratulate her on her report and the rapporteur for the committees of inquiry, mr stevenson and mrs lucas. parliament is taking a significant step towards shaping the way people treat animals.
member of the commission. madam president, before making a few points, i should first like to briefly mention two practical issues. firstly, i appreciate the need for monitoring and reporting, and that is why we are in agreement with parliament on this. effective and analytical methods are in place, which will be very helpful in implementing this legislation. secondly, on labelling, it was always debatable whether labelling would be enough. we decided – and i think parliament was in agreement – that labelling was not enough and therefore we proposed legislation. however, on the general issue of labelling, we are following very closely voluntary initiatives, programmes and schemes that already exist to cover other fur products and ensure that consumers are properly informed. on the issue of seals, i have to say at the outset that it is not my responsibility. my colleague, mr dimas, has already made a statement to parliament on this issue. i was expecting this question, so i can tell you that efsa has already been asked by the european commission to provide a full objective assessment on the animal welfare aspects of the killing and skinning of seals, which was what commissioner dimas promised you. we expect to have this report in november, and based on that the commission will assess in the shortest possible time the options to respond to this issue. i am sure my colleague will be very happy to discuss this issue with you once he has received the efsa report. allow me to make two or three points. i understand the frustration of many of you who were here before i was. you have talked about ‘a long time’. i have been in office for only two and a half years and i have already produced a proposal. i do not know what happened in the past, but i think we would all appreciate that this commission would not only make a commitment but also deliver this proposal within a reasonable time. i would just like to mention that. secondly, i appreciate that the support of the european citizens has made a great impact; it was a great issue for us and it helped me convince those who needed convincing. however, you have all had a chance to talk with me privately on this issue and you know that i personally did not need to be persuaded or convinced about this. as soon as i was informed about this practice, i immediately gave instructions for my departments to start working on it. therefore, credit me with the fact that i did not need any convincing as soon as i saw the films and knew what the practice was. thirdly, let me mention the derogations. i know your views. from the very beginning i said that i was not happy with them either. however, you must realise that we started with a completely negative approach and then we managed to present a proposal. if the commission wanted to allow loopholes, we would never have brought the proposal in the first place. we are just trying to find the best possible way to make it legally sound to be able to withstand any challenges before the court. that was our approach. we proposed several derogations; these were not agreed upon. we have found a very positive outcome with a compromise. trust me, we never intended to allow any loopholes. what we were trying to do, based on legal advice, was to make this as effective and as solid as possible. the principle was upheld by the other two legal services. therefore, i am very happy that we are having this debate and that we are competing with each other as regards who wants more – what more could one ask? this is the right approach and your support gave me enough strength to convince whoever needed convincing. therefore, i am looking forward to working with you on many other issues that touch upon animal welfare. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the european parliament has often dealt with health issues. but it is often said that he should be concerned with general health conditions: treatment, insurance, and providing proper care for the sick as well as the healthy. sometimes you hear that he shouldn't be dealing with specific diseases. but i think that the disease we are talking about today - ms - is so tragic that it is right that the european parliament should be concerned about it. it's not the first time. a few weeks ago, on 29 may, a conference was held in brussels, organised by the european multiple sclerosis platform. the conference was held under the auspices of the president of the european parliament, hans-gert pöttering, to whom we are grateful, and was organised by mrs uma aaltonen. i would like to remind you that ms uma aaltonen was once a colleague of ours, a member of the european parliament and a member of the committee on petitions, of which i am the chairman. mrs uma aaltonen herself has ms. she's a writer, a journalist, an educator, and she's very involved with ms. i would like to remind you that the committee on petitions dealt with ms; it was petition no 842/2001. as a result of this petition, a report was prepared by the committee on petitions, which was discussed in the european parliament's plenary session in december 2003. on the basis of that report and the resolution accompanying it, and in cooperation with ms societies in all member states and the european ms platform, a code of good practice was developed. this is a very important case, indeed, because the tragedy of ms patients is not reflected in statistics. as the participants in this conference have pointed out, and as we heard in the last debate, the death statistics very often give the cause of death as, for example, respiratory failure or cardiovascular failure, but they don't say that the primary cause of respiratory failure was simply muscle paralysis and the patient suffocated, that the cause of cardiovascular failure was multiple sclerosis, and the whole cardiovascular failure was caused by that. so we often don't get the right amount of information in statistics about how many people are seriously ill, how many people are suffering, and how many people are dying from this disease. people with ms get sick for years, and then, as i said, the cause of their death, i'm sorry to say -- the statistical cause of their death -- is a completely different disease. we met with ms patients in the committee on petitions, we attended these conferences and, during our visit to berlin, we met with the minister of state for the german government, günter glosser, with whom we discussed this matter, since the committee on petitions of the german parliament is also dealing with this matter. i would like to ask the commission today to indicate the ways, methods and efforts it has made to implement the european parliament's resolution and the code of good practice drawn up on the basis of it. i'd be very grateful if you'd answer that question.
madam president! in 2003, the european parliament adopted by a large majority a resolution on the unequal treatment of ms patients in the european union. the glaring disparities discriminating against many europeans with ms at the time led parliament to call on the commission to develop a code of best practice to be followed by all member states. four years after that event, ms is back with a vengeance because of the catastrophic situation of the patients in the new member states. poland has the third highest rate of ms in europe, but unlike its predecessors, only a little over 2% of patients can benefit from standard treatment, instead of 30%. the same is true in romania, bulgaria, slovakia and hungary. if we add that ms is a disease of young people and the second most common cause of disability in europe, the conclusions are clear. i would therefore ask you to compare parliament's common position on ms with the results of the commission's work, particularly in relation to the situation of the sick in the new twelve.
madam president! poland has about 60,000 ms patients, the third largest population of ms patients in europe after germany and the united kingdom, but only about 30% of patients have access to immunomodulatory therapy, compared with just over 2% in poland. this is primarily because of financial hardship, as is the case with many other diseases, including cancer. ms is currently an incurable disease resulting from damage to the immune system that leads to damage to the myelin sheaths and after expensive immunomodulatory treatment, rehabilitation is also expensive. all resolutions, at least in poland, are not implemented primarily for economic reasons and the dramatic situation of the health service, which, as it undergoes transformation, has been disorganized, marketed, and huge costs are also absorbed by western companies' medicines. i believe that the european parliament could influence these very companies so that they do not prey on the poor and sick by depriving them of the basic human right of health care and treatment.
mr. chairman, please! i express my appreciation of course for the work of the committee of inquiry, for the work of ms diana wallis, and as always i welcome the petitioners who are here in the chamber, mr braithwaite and mr lake. it's very nice to see you here. i would like to say that our work today is a success for the committee of inquiry, but also for the committee on petitions, because it started with the committee on petitions. a committee of inquiry was set up following a request from the committee on petitions. the petitions committee exists to help ordinary citizens. and i would like to point out that there have been a whole series of cases in which there have been millions of victims, hundreds of thousands, millions. it was a car tax case in poland, it was a lloyds case similar to this one. it was a matter of the preamble with reference to god in the constitutional treaty. there was the cope radio case, the valencia zoning law malpractice case, and today the equitable life case. these are the millions of people who come to the committee on petitions and whose cases are either resolved here happily or at least they get a great public position.
mr. chairman, please! the report and recommendations we're discussing today are about a very specific case, the equitable life crisis. on this particular point, there is of course no doubt that it was the uk government which failed to comply with the requirements of the third life insurance directive and failed to provide adequate legal remedies, which consequently, in the view of the committee of inquiry, makes the uk government responsible for this matter. but we have to remember that the crisis that we had in equitable life, a strong company, a very respected company, can happen in any other company, not just insurance companies, and in any law of the member states. so the current assessment by the european commission of the ability of member states to implement and apply european union law is, in my view, far from adequate today. i fully agree with the conclusions of the committee of inquiry that the european commission should pay more attention to the quality of legislation at union and member state level. the formal and statistical approach to monitoring the transposition of community law is no longer sufficient. the european commission's recommendations to member states are based on the assumption that the effective implementation of european union law depends on the employment of suitably trained staff and the provision of adequate resources. i don't necessarily agree with that. the number of staff and the size of the resources available are not a complete measure. it is necessary to be determined and committed to implementing european law. these actions will be credible if states entrust the implementation of union law to appropriately empowered, competent and accountable institutions, which will be assessed for their effectiveness. the three factors required to successfully carry out the tasks facing the member states are knowledge, competence and readiness. factor one, having knowledge, is not a problem today. the second factor, the capacity to implement the acquis communautaire, involves allocating the appropriate resources and staff. this is the aspect which the commission is putting the greatest emphasis on at present. but the third one, which is preparedness, is the most important one, in my opinion.
member of the commission. mr president, i am taking this report on behalf of my colleague commissioner špidla, who has been delayed due to travel difficulties. i should like to begin by congratulating mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou on the quality of her report and the very pertinent suggestions it contains. the commission broadly welcomes the motion for a resolution of the european parliament on measures enabling young women in the european union to combine family life with a period of study. while education and family policies are matters for the national authorities, it is important, in every context, to encourage the reconciliation of family life and study periods. at the stockholm and barcelona european councils, the heads of state and government recognised that the future of the economy and of european society would depend on its citizens and, in particular, on the younger generations and their levels of training. education and training have thus been located at the heart of the lisbon process. these policies are decisive for achieving a real knowledge-based european society. for economic reasons and on grounds of equity and equal opportunities, it is therefore important to ensure that young men and women with family responsibilities have the opportunity to take up and complete studies. the commission is pleased that the motion for a resolution concentrates not only on students with responsibilities for children, but also on those with responsibilities vis-à-vis dependent adults or people with disabilities. likewise, it also welcomes the recommendations concerning childcare facilities, fathers’ roles and better sharing of housekeeping and family responsibilities as a significant factor in equal opportunities between men and women. this approach is in line with the commission’s policy in the field of reconciling private lives and working lives. the commission also draws encouragement from the stress placed on equality between men and women. reconciling private life and working life is one of the six priorities of the roadmap for equality between men and women adopted by the commission in march 2006. as stated in the proposal for a resolution, we are well aware that, in reality, women bear most family and housekeeping responsibilities, even while studying. in the absence of adequate support, young women are thus more likely than men not to continue in education, to give up in the middle of a course or never to return to education, which inevitability leads to inequalities between men and women in their working lives and a loss of their potential. crèches and other childcare facilities are therefore essential to gender equality. in the roadmap for equality between women and men 2006-2010, the commission emphasised that childcare services are adapting too slowly to social developments, and it undertook to support the achievement of the barcelona objectives and the development of other care facilities through the structural funds and the exchange of good practices. in 2008 the commission also intends to present a communication on the achievement of the barcelona criteria, which will take stock of the progress made and the efforts that remain to be made. all these elements also contribute to the response that we have to give to the demographic challenge. childcare services support individuals’ free choice, allowing them to have the number of children they would like to have. you probably know that the commission has launched a formal consultation of european social partners on reconciling work life and private life on the basis of article 138 of the treaty. the first phase began in october 2006 and the second in may 2007. the commission considers that different legislative and non-legislative components are indispensable with a view to better reconciling work, private life and family life. that is why, in the consultation document, the commission invited the social partners to give their opinions on a set of legislative and non-legislative options. i am pleased to note that the motion for a resolution broadly echoes the concerns and arguments defended by the commission in its two documents consulting the european social partners. lastly, i recall the adoption in november 2006 of the action programme in the field of lifelong learning for 2007-2013. this programme, which symbolises the new priority given to education, may provide support for projects that meet your concerns.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as the european council summits in stockholm in 2001 and barcelona a year later concluded, the future of europe's economy and society will depend in particular on the young generation and its level of education. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the potential of young educated people in the demographic renewal of europe. this can be achieved by providing a favourable social, economic and educational framework to enable families to be formed at an earlier stage of life without adversely affecting opportunities for training and professional development. according to the conclusions of the green paper on demography, the european demographic deficit is due to the fact that people are now reaching later stages of life related to studies, work or starting a family. in many countries, students take on family and study obligations at the same time, or pursue their family goals by deciding to have children before graduation, for example in sweden 41% of women have their first child before graduation, in finland 31. following these examples, other member states should take greater account of the situation of young women and men with family responsibilities during their education or vocational training. this could be done by offering, for example, affordable student insurance, as well as social and medical care, which could also cover the dependants of the student. consideration should be given to reducing the tax burden on young people with family responsibilities who are studying and working at the same time, and to facilitating the procedures for granting loans on favourable terms by credit institutions. universities should take account of the financial situation of this social group when calculating tuition fees and provide them with appropriate social assistance after graduation, for example for a period of six months, to facilitate their professional integration into the labour market. i ask you to support paragraph 25 of the report. it is also important that member states, together with higher and vocational education and training institutions, offer young people a more flexible organisation of their studies, for example by increasing the opportunities for distance learning, lifelong learning and part-time study. in addition, it is essential to ensure that students with children have access to good quality public nursery schools and day care centres at an affordable price in order to reconcile family life with their studies. i therefore call for a vote on paragraphs 14 and 15 of the report. it is time for member states and community institutions to exchange best practices in supporting learners with family responsibilities, taking into account the existing innovative legislation in this field already in force in some member states. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos, on a very well-written report.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the document, which recognises the reconciliation of family life and the acquisition of education by young women in the european union, is a sign of a return to a certain normality in the union, which has suffered a dramatic demographic decline and an ageing population, contributed to by anti-family and pro-abortion policies, together with the use of women as mannequins for advertising contraceptive patches. in addition to the demands in the document, an important aspect of helping young women learn to raise children would be the rebuilding of multigenerational families, where it is natural for young people to be helped by their own parents. this not only helps to strengthen the emotional bonds but also helps the children to develop as individuals, who are blessed with the invaluable treasure of grandparent love for their grandchildren. the benefits of developing multigenerational families will also be in improving the mental health of citizens, which will allow the implementation of different strategies. amendments have been proposed on several occasions to include maternity leave in the work experience with the payment of parental leave equivalents, which would further improve the situation of young families in raising children and obtaining higher qualifications.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mrs panayotopoulos touches on a key issue in the european union - its demographic future. the rapporteur should therefore be commended for having defined the problem and proposed some solutions in an atmosphere which is currently so unfavourable to the family. the report contains many legitimate measures to facilitate parenting for europe's young generation. but these measures will not be effective unless the atmosphere of nonsense about the undesirable, supposedly inclusive, male-female family model is changed. do adults need to be reminded that this is the only family in which children are born? we remember that in poland. european societies have never been so rich, and they have never had so few children. so the obstacles to parenthood are not just objective but are, above all, subjective. family has been relegated to the back of the hierarchy of life's goals, with work and play being the most important. it's about pleasure, but no commitment. he doesn't know what he's living for, so he doesn't know what he's having children for. the europe of today is marked by the words "mane, tekel, fares".
mr. chairman, please! we all know and share the rapporteur's concern for women, the family and tradition. we thank her for this report, which, while calling for the reconciliation of family life and female education, also touches on an even more important issue, namely the union's demographic and immigration policy. women want to study and have children. sadly, in today's fast-paced world, only one of these goals is often possible. young women and men therefore need to be helped through increased pro-family policies by the union and the member states. the current lack of proper support is a real threat to our christian and european civilization. even in poland, which is a country that loves its family and its traditions, the number of births is not enough, and in many cities in the european union, the number of immigrant children exceeds the number of native children.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate mrs. marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou for her persistence in pushing important issues not only socially, but especially as the mother of nine children herself. the challenge of our time, also in the context of demographics, is to find solutions that allow us to reconcile having and raising children with education and entering the workforce. it is not just young women who are to be considered here, but young parents in general, mothers and fathers. it is worth emphasising that the modern requirements of higher education, followed by doctoral studies or various types of applications and the beginning of a professional career and self-employment are very demanding and do not usually end in four years. you can't just ignore the laws of biology. young people therefore need help in the form of conditions that enable them to achieve family goals, while simultaneously learning and developing their careers. a welcoming, family-friendly, non-discriminatory environment is essential, as is social support and flexibility in the study and traineeship process. using internet techniques will be very helpful here.
mr. chairman, please! we are today in the european union in the grip of two imperatives: overcoming the demographic crisis and at the same time raising the level of education, especially for young people. the point is, these young people don't have to choose between education and family. the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou makes good proposals for reconciling these two european imperatives. i support the proposals and opinions that have been expressed here during the debate. but the bigger problem comes after college. in europe, more women than men complete university studies, but three times fewer choose long-term careers in science and research. only one in six professors in europe is a woman. meanwhile, we are short 700,000 scientists, especially the younger generation. we cannot solve the problems of growth, the problems of winning the lisbon strategy without changing this situation. the urgent problem is therefore to transfer the solutions proposed in mrs panayotopoulos-cassiotou's report to the post-graduate period: universities, scientific institutes, laboratories and research centres of large companies. the return of women to scientific careers after having two or three children, and even briefly raising them, is almost impossible today. i would therefore like to express my great appreciation to unesco and l'oréal for taking action worldwide to promote the scientific careers of women and i invite you to see the exhibition i am co-organizing with unesco and l'oréal in the european parliament in october.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, the majority of meps voted in favour of an extended definition of vodka. thus, a centuries-old tradition was lost. the rapporteur and the members who supported the extended definition supported rules that would contribute to the deterioration of the quality and flavour of vodka, which could result in a product made from various agricultural raw materials, including animal origin and post-production waste, becoming a dangerous product for the consumer. we have products like vodka that are attributed to different regions of the world, often with a long tradition, they are national products and they cannot be manipulated by introducing an ambiguous definition, which is what we have done today. this is a bad decision.
in writing. on 19 june, the european parliament voted on a report by horst schnellhardt (epp), which proposed, among other things, updating the not very precise definition of vodka that had been in force since 1989. the latest version of the definition of vodka, which is contained in the adopted report and was developed by the european parliament in consultation with the council of the european union (on the basis of a proposal by the german presidency), is not favourable to countries considered to be traditional vodka producers in europe, including in particular poland. this proposal allows the production of vodka from all raw materials of agricultural origin, which is contrary to the tradition and history of vodka production and to the demands of poland and the scandinavian countries. i therefore voted against the compromise of the council and parliament, while expressing my support for the reduction of the list of raw materials used for the production of spirit to cereals, potatoes and sugar beet only.
in writing. i vote against the schnellhardt report on the definition, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks. a broad definition of vodka would undoubtedly contribute to devaluing its reputation because of the real risk of its quality being degraded. the placing on the market of vodkas from non-typical raw materials, which will benefit from the reputation of vodka from cereals and potatoes, will also mislead consumers, for whom the use of the term 'vodka' on the label means that it is a reputed high-quality product derived from cereals and potatoes. the polish delegation of the pse made every effort to ensure that the definition of vodka was constructed in accordance with polish interests and demanded that traditional recipes be respected and that regional practices in the production of spirit drinks be taken into account. our position, however, did not win the support of the parliamentary majority.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr gunnara hökmarka on the development of a european broadband policy (2006/2273 ((ini)). the rapporteur rightly emphasises that the development of internet broadband will contribute to the creation of advanced, global healthcare systems, better access to vocational training and to the use of services in government administration, and 500 million citizens connected to broadband will create the opportunity to transform europe into the world's leading knowledge-based economy. the call to member states to promote broadband in all schools, universities and educational establishments deserves my full support. i believe that improving broadband infrastructure should be a priority and that considerable resources should be allocated to this end. i also believe that eu funds should be used to upgrade or replace broadband networks that do not offer connections with sufficient capacity.
in writing. mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs marie panayotopoulos-cassiotou on the regulatory framework for measures to reconcile family life and the period of study of young women in the european union (2006/2276 (ini)). member states should take greater account of the situation of young women and men with family responsibilities. the report rightly emphasises the need for public policies to provide more support to young people so that they can take on and fulfil family and educational responsibilities without having to favour one or the other. the rapporteur proposes that the expectations and needs of young men and women who are simultaneously educated and accepting family responsibilities be better taken into account at both the educational and social systems. this could be expressed in the provision of favourable student insurance, social and medical care which could also cover dependants of the student and in the reduction or elimination of taxation for people who are simultaneously studying and taking on family obligations. as a university lecturer, i believe that the report's call for member states to propose, together with higher and vocational education institutions, a more flexible organisation of studies using teaching techniques linked to new technologies deserves the highest support.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. only the united efforts of the whole world can help africa today. a fundamental obstacle to this unity is europe's persistent funding of so-called reproductive rights, including abortion. abortion, not only for moral but also for medical reasons, is no answer to the problems of premature death in africa. if we want to help women in africa in this area, let's export medical aid, fresh water, education and sanitation. the financing of abortion in africa from union funds is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. it forces all union citizens to participate indirectly. it is also a form of moral imperialism towards africa which cannot be supported in this house, and i therefore ask you to vote against paragraphs 40 and 41 of the report. i would like to make this appeal in particular to the christian-democratic members of parliament in this chamber. otherwise, we can't support this report.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i want to draw attention to four points. unfortunately, the eu-15's share of aid as a percentage of gross national product for the millennium development goals is declining, and most countries have so far failed to reach even the 0.33% target. while the needs for education at the primary level are financed by only 23% and for health care by 36. only 18 of the 60 countries in need have been completely forgiven their foreign debts. and these decisions are important not only because they take a burden off of these countries that is often unbearable, but also because, as the world bank found, countries that have benefited from debt relief have more than doubled their spending on poverty reduction. thirdly, the most effective forms of aid to poor countries are to provide them with access to the markets of the world's most developed countries and to support the development of small and micro-enterprises in poor countries. fourthly, it is also important to support the development of local authorities and ngos and to direct the eu's budgetary support mainly through them, as this is the only way to improve its efficiency and reduce bureaucracy and corruption.
mr. chairman, please! in development policy, we often talk about taking local conditions into account. one of the regular ways of finding out what our partners in developing countries want is through the acp-eu joint assembly. the report summarizing the work of the convention during the past year is very interesting and important. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr cornillet, for this. the meeting covered a range of issues of importance to developing countries: energy, water, avian influenza, the role of regional integration in promoting peace and security, the social and environmental aspects of fisheries, the interdependence of tourism and development, and progress in negotiations on economic partnership agreements. i'd like to point out one problem. i think it is no longer useful to maintain a dialogue with representatives of countries that regularly violate human rights. the positive influence on their policies by being able to attend or observe the work of the congregation is pure fiction. for some, being on this forum is just an opportunity to spread propaganda, not dialogue. you can't find real solutions to problems by appealing to propaganda. i experienced this when communism was in power in my country, and propaganda was supposed to replace politics. the countries that do this are wasting our time, money, potential and damaging the image of the acp countries. they also have very short-term goals, trying not to allow themselves to critically evaluate their own internal situation. they don't want anyone to help them because they think they're doing the right thing. if we want the assembly to be a genuine and shared center of political consensus, the attitudes of countries like cuba, zimbabwe, sudan must change.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i just want to make sure i understand that i have two and a half minutes, because it also seems that mr. cashmann is going to be speaking on this matter. i understand that i have two and a half minutes because you haven't said anything about it. mr. chairman, please! the mediterranean coast is the most attractive place for tourism and for the settlement of the people of northern europe. the spanish coast is particularly highly urbanized. and this incredibly intense urbanization is causing a number of conflicts. it's like there are three sides to the conflict: developers, government, and residents. and, what is worth emphasizing, these are both spaniards and citizens of other european union countries who want to settle in these areas or who have already settled there. in view of the huge number of petitions that have been received by the committee on petitions, we have organised a special fact finding visit and in december 2005 the european parliament adopted a resolution on these petitions, concerning infringements of the directives on public procurement, environmental protection, water safety and infringements of property rights. another fact-finding visit was carried out in the same year and on 11 april the committee on petitions adopted a position on the matter, following up on a previous parliament resolution. i would therefore like to ask both the commission and the council what action the commission and the council have taken to ensure the proper application of community law and respect for the fundamental property rights of european citizens in the context of article 6 of the treaty on european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i am not sure whether the honourable member has asked a question, but in any case he and i agree that there is at least that point which you mentioned in your speech, mr president, and there are also legal incompatibilities which, at the moment, do not allow us to say that sweden meets the criteria for joining the euro. i repeat that the treaty does not at any time lay down any maximum or minimum time limits. it lays down a general obligation to prepare, to try to meet the conditions, but it does not set a precise timetable and therefore the treaty must be interpreted with the flexibility with which its authors drafted it, not with criteria different from those of the letter and spirit of the treaty itself. and in any case, i say that common sense must also be applied, as so often in politics; if the swedish citizens said no four years ago, then we must ask the swedish citizens when they decide to change their minds, if they are going to change their minds. i believe that no country can be forced to have a currency against its own will.
member of the commission. mrs kauppi, i will try to answer you as precisely as you have asked the questions. firstly, sweden has exactly the same regulation as the 12 new member states; the only two member states not in the euro that have different regulation are denmark and the united kingdom, with two different opt-out clauses. secondly, the deadline: directives have a deadline; the obligation to prepare for the euro, as laid down in the treaty, has no deadline. and thirdly, as regards the question of the referendum, that is something which depends on the legal system of each country. if my information is correct, the swedish referendum is not binding on this issue. it is difficult for swedish citizens or the swedish parliament to amend the treaty on their own initiative.
member of the commission. mr czarnecki, as we have just discussed in the previous answer, being a member state of the european union entails the obligation to adopt the euro, except in the case of denmark and the united kingdom, which negotiated an 'opt-out' clause when they joined. member states not yet participating in the euro area are committed to adopting the single currency once they meet the necessary conditions and to endeavour to prepare for them. where the commission confirms, on the basis of its own assessment (the convergence report) and the european central bank confirms, that poland fulfils all the conditions laid down in article 121 (1) of the treaty, the derogation of poland may be abrogated and the zloty may be introduced into the euro in accordance with article 122 (2). poland does not currently fully meet the convergence criteria as regards the government financial situation because the polish government deficit is above 3%, nor does it meet the criterion of exchange rate stability as the zloty is not part of the exchange rate mechanism. furthermore, the legislation governing the central bank in poland remains not in line with the requirements of the treaty, according to the analysis included in our last convergence report of december 2006. the commission does not make predictions about when member states will or can meet the required conditions, but it certainly encourages all to orient their policies towards achieving macroeconomic stability and boosting productivity growth. these policies favour sustainable economic convergence, which is the best basis for preparing countries to join the euro and to enjoy, once inside the monetary area, all the benefits of membership of the single currency.
i'm not going to let you do this. i thank you very much for that, but i would like to say that we are of course aware of the conditions that must be met in order to join the euro area. my country is saying very clearly that it is not the right time in the economic sense, that this decision will probably be made in a few years. i know very well that the european commission cannot speak about dates, but can we say in general that 2012 will be a date that is more or less in line with both sides?
mr. chairman, please! community legislation on the establishment of a fair and non-discriminatory public procurement system is, in my view, the right step to promote the development of the internal market. current union legislation sets minimum standards that must be met for this type of contract. however, they are often insufficient, mainly because of the problem of transposition and the lack of an effective system for controlling the conformity of procurement procedures with the requirements of the directive. the rapporteur defines them very well and points out the possibilities of solving them. these are mainly problems related to the favouring of domestic, strong players and the non-compliance with the principles of free and fair competition, as well as, of course, corruption, which prevents equal access to contracts for entities such as small and medium-sized enterprises. it is therefore necessary to develop such a system of control of public procurement in order to eliminate unlawful free-riding. i therefore agree that member states should make greater use of the support of the european commission to ensure better transposition and application of the directive. it is a good idea to set up national public procurement advisory agencies, which, in addition to assisting the entities involved in the procurement procedure, could monitor the situation in the member states and provide statistical data to the commission. we should also facilitate access to these types of orders by simplifying electronic purchasing techniques. it should be remembered that public procurement is an important factor in the union's economic growth, accounting for over 16% of gdp. the aim of the directive is to eliminate discrimination in the member states and to make the system flexible enough for foreign operators to have equal access to the markets of other countries. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that in solving public procurement problems, the focus should be on not only formal solutions but also informal ones, such as the promotion of good practices, the exchange of experience, the organisation of training or the transfer of information between member states.
member of the commission. mr president, rigorous implementation and enforcement are a priority for the commission. the commission is currently assessing how further to improve the correct application of our rules. the issue of public partnerships is of particular concern to a number of members. questions have been raised about the need to clarify concepts such as ‘public authority’ or the notion of what constitutes an in-house contract. i hear the call for a legislative proposal in this area. amendments to this effect have been tabled. i have to say, however, that i am not convinced of the need for legislative action. based on the evidence at hand, i believe it would be premature to go down that route. the commission is studying national practices in this area. if this research demonstrates that clarification is necessary, we could then decide how best to provide such clarity. i welcome your report as a timely contribution to this reflection, and i look forward to working with the european parliament and making the internal market deliver tangible benefits to consumers and businesses.
member of the commission. mr president, four years ago the commission announced its intention to develop a european security and defence policy. since then, we have been striving to establish a more open and fair european defence market through a number of initiatives. the new procurement directive for defence equipment is a crucial element of this overall strategy and is one of the commission’s strategic priorities for this year. at present, the vast majority of defence equipment tenders are conducted outside community rules. member states rely upon the derogation from the treaty under article 296. in the commission’s view, this derogation should be limited to the exceptional cases. we gave some guidance on the matter last december. nevertheless, the derogation is still the rule more than the exception. most defence procurement has therefore remained outside of the internal market principles. this means that all 27 member states procure defence equipment in accordance with their own national regulations, often resulting in non-transparent and sometimes discriminatory practices. we recognise that current public procurement rules are really suited to the particular needs of the defence procurement. but we believe we can achieve important economic gains if we open up national defence markets, which represent 0.8% of the european union’s gdp and one quarter of public procurement at state level. member states and industry widely acknowledge these advantages. fair and transparent conditions would allow companies, especially smes, to tender more easily in other member states and thus widen their access to business opportunities in a much larger home market. longer production runs would allow economies of scale. this in turn would help to reduce costs and lead to lower prices. the final beneficiary of that would be the taxpayer. our proposal would adapt certain community procurement rules to the specific nature of defence and give awarding authorities greater flexibility for sensitive procurement procedures. this will also make it easier for member states to use the derogation under article 296 of the treaty only in exceptional cases. as is the case under the other procurement directives, member states will continue exchanging views on defence procurement issues via the advisory committee on public procurement, once the directive has been implemented. i wish to emphasise that the new directive will implement the code of conduct of the european defence agency. the code of conduct applies only to contracts which are exempted from the community rules on the basis of article 296, while the future directive will apply to contracts which are not exempted from community rules. together the code of conduct and the new directive will enhance transparency and fair competion on defence partners in the european union. i am pleased to indicate that work on the proposal for a defence directive is well advanced. my services are currently finalising the impact assessment which will tell us more about the expected impact of the initiative on the market, including social issues. in parallel we are working closely with member states via the advisory committee on public procurement and via the european defence agency. industry is also involved in the impact assessment. the commission is planning to adopt a proposal in the autumn. at this stage we aim to present it as part of a package, together with a proposal for a regulation on intra-community transfers of military equipment and a communication on defence industries. since we started the reference in the field of defence procurement, parliament has always been one of our strongest supporters. this is clearly reflected in parliament’s resolution of 2005. i wish to thank you for this and hope that our fruitful cooperation will continue in the future.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the internal market of the european union, we spend about 180 billion euros a year on defence. almost half of this amount is exempt from the application of the applicable public procurement rules. there is a need to analyse this situation arising from the application of article 296 of the treaty to public procurement in the field of defence. the communiqué partly explained the matter. due to the specific nature of armaments production and the need to link it to the defence policy of individual countries of the european union and nato, the technical compatibility of equipment and communication systems and the correctness of the interoperability of equipment and equipment, there is a need to involve individual countries in stronger cooperation and to create a well-functioning defence industry and its supply organisation. one element of this action should be the development of a directive on defence procurement. stabilisation of the arms and procurement market can have a positive impact on the sector, its employment and efficiency.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the safe storage and export ban of metallic mercury is a document limiting its presence in the ecosystem and its effects on humans and animals. the union countries reduced global atmospheric mercury emissions by 60% between 1990 and 2000. meanwhile, worldwide, it's up 20 percent. in the 1940's, my colleagues and i were working in mercury mines, and we were happy to see that when we dipped copper coins in mercury, they turned silver. today, the public has a radically different attitude towards mercury, and the industry is moving away from mercury-based processes because of its toxicity. in the light of the positive assessment of the draft regulation, i have a few comments. first, mercury waste should be landfilled as soon as possible, limiting the use of temporary landfills. secondly, the distance between landfills should be as close as possible, and transport of mercury waste across europe should be avoided. thirdly, new waste management methods cannot be introduced without their proper development and verification. it should be noted that the industry itself is trying to move away from mercury processes due to the risks. amendments nos 11, 12, 15, 23 and 27 to the commission proposal are unjustified.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: one of the major problems facing europe and the world today is natural disasters. between 1990 and 2006 alone, the european region experienced 31 droughts, 102 earthquakes, 344 floods, 58 forest fires and 170 hurricanes. the damage caused by the earthquakes was immense, and the need to provide aid was great. this year we are experiencing another severe winter and spring frost disaster, causing losses in fruit and vegetable crops, mainly in central and eastern and northern european countries. in poland, for example, some regions experienced frosts of -7 to -12 degrees celsius. according to the estimates of the institute of horticulture and floriculture in skierniewice, as a result of frost, compared to last year, the harvest will be lower: apples by about 60-70%, pears by 80%, plums by 90%, cherries between 40-50%, raspberries by 50%. nearly all the losses will be in the harvest of cherries, peaches, apricots and walnuts. losses are currently being estimated throughout poland. according to the union of soda-makers, they will amount to several billion zlotys. tens of thousands of farming families lost their year-round income, and with it their chance to survive and resume production the following year. several thousand owners of fruit and vegetable processing businesses are waiting for help. these people need help, no matter where they live or do business. what is needed is the solidarity of national governments and the european commission. it is necessary to mobilise the european union solidarity fund established by the council regulation of 11 november 2002 and, if its requirements are not met, to explore other possible grants. this support is particularly needed in the new member states, which do not receive as the old full subsidies for agricultural production from the european union budget and finance the common agricultural policy to a large extent from their own budgets. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support in our efforts to grant additional subsidies to the new member states and to ask you to remember those who are most affected today ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to express my thanks for this question and to inform members that the commission is well aware of the situation. frost struck fruit producers not only in poland, but in hungary, the czech republic and slovakia as well. the commission will monitor developments in the sector. the current common market organisation in fresh fruit and vegetables does not foresee any direct assistance to producers adversely affected by climatic conditions or natural disasters. the cmo provides eu assistance to producer organisations and producer groups in relation to their operational programmes and in recognition of the plans that, to some extent, can cover losses. in the proposal for the reform of the common market organisation, the commission proposed to widen the scope of the crisis management tools and to enable the producer organisations to get eu co-financing to cover costs of harvest insurance and, later, to establish mutual funds. as regards the possibility of granting state aid, member states may, under certain conditions, use the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1857/2006 to exempt from notification an aid scheme earmarked for the compensation of losses due to frost. in case the envisaged aid scheme does not fully comply with the provisions of the regulation, member states may still notify it under the community guidelines for state aid in the agriculture and forestry sector, 2007-2013. i would also like to add that member states may also use the de minimis mechanism. in that case, the aid would be limited to eur 3 000 per beneficiary in three years, within the framework of the maximum amount laid down for each member state in the annex to the regulation. under the rural development legislation, member states have two possibilities to support producers who suffer from the consequences of natural disasters. firstly, member states may implement specific measures to restore agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters, and they may also introduce appropriate preventive actions. however, the present draft proposal of the polish rural development programme for the period 2007-2013 does not foresee the inclusion of this measure in the programme. the commission is open to discussing this possibility with the polish authorities, should they wish to do so. another possibility of rural development support is provided under the force majeure rule of the rural development policy. in case a natural disaster seriously affects the land and the holding, and the farmer cannot respect the relevant commitments he has made under a rural development scheme, member states may recognise a case of force majeure. this means the farmers who benefit from rural development support will not have to pay back the aid received. one of the most relevant measures under force majeure is agri-environment. if, during a specific year, the beneficiary cannot respect the commitments due to a natural disaster, he will not be paid or partially not be paid in that year. however, he does not have to reimburse the payments he has received during the rest of the period of the contract. the member state is invited to discuss the different aspects of this case with the commission services. as regards the application of force majeure, it is important that the beneficiary notifies the case in writing to the competent authority, together with relevant evidence, within 10 working days from the day on which the beneficiary is in a position to do so.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. almost every year, in different regions of europe, we are confronted with a variety of natural disasters. we hear about droughts, heavy rains leading to floods, or strong winds. unfortunately, we've had a few frosts this year. these frosts, which occurred in the northern, central and eastern parts of europe in april and may, when the ground temperature dropped to as low as -10 degrees celsius, caused enormous damage to agriculture. early vegetables, apple trees, pears, cherries, plums, and soft fruits were among the crops affected. in some regions of poland, the losses are so high that this will have a significant impact on the financial situation of many farms. until now, polish farmers and fruit growers have rarely insured their produce because it is very expensive and often simply beyond their means. but the cold wave has not only affected my country, but also fruit growers and farmers, although to a lesser extent, in germany, the netherlands, the czech republic, slovakia, austria, hungary and even northern romania. i'm not going to let you do this. we need systemic action to provide not only financial support to affected fruit growers, farmers and processors, but above all solutions to prevent or mitigate the effects of natural disasters, which are becoming more frequent as a result of climate change.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to express my deep satisfaction that the euro area will be joined by two new countries on 1 january 2008: cyprus and malta. both countries have fulfilled the convergence criteria required by the treaty. i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to our cypriot and maltese colleagues. the enlargement of the euro area is an important process that deepens the integration of the member states of the european union. this process has a positive impact both on the candidate countries and on the euro area economy itself. countries preparing to join the euro area are developing at a much faster rate than euro area countries and are in a better macroeconomic situation, especially in terms of public debt and budget deficits. the accession of these new countries to the eurozone strengthens the whole area and the single currency. at the same time, i would like to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that parliament has to work under enormous time pressure when considering the accession of new countries to the euro area. the current tight work schedule does not allow parliament to prepare a sound opinion. the resolution we are - i hope - adopting today is therefore intended to launch the debate on an interinstitutional agreement which will allow the efficient and effective analysis of the convergence reports in the future. i am pleased that president barroso and commissioner almunia have just declared on behalf of the commission an open and constructive approach in this respect. i hope that the council of the european union will also take a constructive approach, mr gloser, and that we will be able to work out a smooth mechanism to allow future enlargements of the euro area to proceed smoothly. in the debate on the enlargement of the euro area, it should be stressed that some of the existing maastricht convergence criteria are not adapted to the current situation. this is particularly the case with the inflation criterion. first, it does not seem appropriate to base the criteria for joining the euro area on the average inflation rate in non-euro area countries. secondly, the current criterion does not take into account the fact that rapid economic growth in the new member states naturally translates into higher inflation, which is by no means a sign of economic weakness, but rather reflects the process of the new member states catching up with the developed economies of the old union. thirdly, i would point out that the definition of price stability used by the commission and the european central bank in their convergence reports differs from the definition of price stability used by the european central bank in its monetary policy. however, the treaty contains only one term, price stability, and no two different interpretations of that term can be used. the inflation criterion in its current form means that some of the new member states may not be able to join the euro area for many years. this creates a permanent division into two categories of member states: euro area countries and non-euro area countries. such a situation threatens the cohesion of the union and is contrary to the spirit of the treaty. the convergence criteria designed 16 years ago, under very different conditions, should be adapted to the new situation. i call for a serious debate on this.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in the debate on the enlargement of the euro area to include cyprus and malta, i would like to draw attention to the following points: firstly, the european commission once again recalls the need to meet all the maastricht criteria for new member states before joining the euro area, while ignoring the fact that many of the old countries did not meet these criteria when they adopted the euro. secondly, despite the revision of the stability and growth pact, the commission's conciliatory attitude towards the largest eu countries in respect of the maastricht criteria has not changed. the commission has tolerated, and appears to continue to tolerate, significant budget deficits, and in particular the level of public debt, often exceeding 60% of gross national product (gnp). the statistics confirm that. the public debt in the countries of the european union, the old european union, was as high as 63.3% of gdp in 2006, and as many as half of the countries in the euro area had a public debt above 60% of gdp. thirdly, the commission also treats the candidate countries for the euro area very differently. lithuania was recently denied entry to the euro area despite meeting the maastricht criteria and inflation being just 0.1% above the reference value. it may therefore be surprising that the commission has agreed so quickly to the accession of cyprus and malta to the euro area, given that the general government deficit in both countries is clearly above 60% of gdp. in the case of cyprus, it was as high as 65,3% of gdp in 2006 and in the case of malta, 66,5%. moreover, both countries have difficulty in providing eurostat with data showing their financial situation. despite the reservations i have just expressed, i would like to congratulate both countries, cyprus and malta, on joining the euro area.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs rie oomen-ruijten on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on improving the transferability of supplementary pension rights (com ((2005) 0507 c6-0331/2005 2005/0214 ((cod)). demographic change and ageing societies make us aware of the need for additional pension systems to ensure decent living conditions. the new directive, and the report by mep riia oomen-ruijten, aim to improve the mobility of workers within and between eu member states by establishing minimum requirements for acquiring and retaining additional pension rights. the report rightly emphasises the role of the member states in taking action to promote the continuous transfer of vested interests, especially in the case of the creation of new supplementary pension systems. the european commission shall, within five years of the implementation of the directive, draw up a report taking into account the conditions for transferring the capital corresponding to the workers' entitlements to supplementary pensions.
mr. chairman, please! we have debated and voted today on the enlargement of the euro area and the accession of cyprus and malta. i leave the sovereign decision on the abolition of the national currency in cyprus and malta to the people of those countries. however, as a representative of the league of polish families in the european parliament, i am opposed to poland's entry into the eurozone and the associated negative economic and social consequences for poles. according to all current public opinion polls, the majority of poles do not want the euro. i think that not only is it not worth hurrying, but it is not worth introducing the euro in poland at all. i also disagree with the views expressed today that it is the duty of the member states to join the euro area. the poles should decide this issue in a national referendum and i hope that the polish zloty - alongside the british pound, danish and swedish krona - will remain the national currency in europe.
in writing. i was forced to vote against the report on the millennium development goals. the introduction of the eu budget funding for abortion in this report must lead to divisions in the aid strategy for africa. this is detrimental to the effectiveness of these activities. abortion, not only for moral but also for medical reasons, is not the answer to the problem of premature death. the financing of abortion in africa from union funds is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity - it forces all union citizens to participate indirectly. it's also a kind of moral imperialism towards africa. this chamber's continued support for funding abortion in third world countries is the biggest mistake we make in terms of humanitarian aid policy.
the president of the council. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again, and also you, for the debate and your contributions, which made it clear that it was important to launch the barcelona process and to set up a policy for it more than ten years ago. it was also an attempt to find new instruments. some of you have made it clear that this programme has also served to contribute to improving policy and infrastructure in these countries. unfortunately, if you look at certain countries on the southern edge of the mediterranean, you will find that some of the targets have not yet been achieved. some of you have pointed out that more efficiency is needed here. the continuation of the european neighbourhood instrument will, however, make an important contribution to safeguarding this euro-mediterranean dialogue. i would like to return to the special situation of the palestinians. it has been made clear on several occasions and the commissioner has been rightly praised for finding a way out of this difficult situation. it's also important to say that we have to help. but if we help - and sometimes it would be pragmatic - then after three months there must be no criticism of the procedure. but i think, commissioner, that a way has been found to actually help in the current situation. i said yesterday in the foreign affairs committee that we must differentiate a little between cause and effect. the european union has repeatedly stated its intention to support the process in the middle east. but she also said that in terms of recognizing the government after the elections, certain criteria must be met, namely the renunciation of violence, the adherence to the roadmap, also the acceptance of the state of israel, so pre-determined areas. that's important to know. we have done the same. i would not always blame all of this on insufficient recognition by governments or insufficient resources. the european union has recently been working on this in the foreign ministers' council and has also achieved that israel has now made an important commitment to release the frozen funds. i am sure that this was also the case in the negotiations with the palestinians. the commissioner made this clear in her debate with the foreign ministers last monday. results will be achieved very quickly because it is important to provide aid both in the west bank and in the gaza strip.
member of the commission. mr president, it is highly important to recognise that there is an important connection between meda and the new neighbourhood policy. it is true that we have achieved a great deal: the mediterranean countries are now working together with us, for the first time, not only multilaterally but also bilaterally, i.e. not only the mediterranean and barcelona programmes but also bilaterally in the neighbourhood programme. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument is a special instrument which builds on meda as regards programming and implementation. however, we have tried to concentrate and focus a little more in order to increase efficiency. with regard to echo, mr michel, who is responsible for echo, has made everything possible; eur 60 million from echo funds has already been allocated this year to the palestinians via un organisations and ngos. allow me to speak briefly about olaf. as you know, the director-general mentioned that he has to respect the various rules and regulations of olaf. at the same time, however, he has delivered a résumé of the main conclusions, around ten pages approximately, in a special report to the committee on budgetary control. he has also offered to attend that committee to answer questions in a closed session. however, i must make it clear that this would concern money for the years 2001-2003 only and not the last period. allow me to return to the difficult question of palestine and of our funding there. first of all, you know that this is a european union policy, not just a commission policy, and therefore it is the member states in unanimity which have decided on policy, and we have then tried to support this as much as we could. therefore, when the national unity government was formed, it did not take us long; i held my first meeting with salam fayyad the following week. i had already met him before he was in government, and we tried to see what could be done. it was he who said that we have to take some time: you have the temporary international mechanism so use it for the time being. however, i am obliged to issue an order to the finance ministry, to the single treasury account. he then also opened a special plo account, but this was never the account that we used. this was intended to be used for money from the arab countries, in particular, and perhaps also for israeli money which, in the end, did not materialise. therefore, it should be clear that this was an eu policy. now there is a new situation, to which we reacted immediately, and so has and had the quartet. i have just outlined what can be done as regards this policy. in response to the member who mentioned micro-credits, we want to assist in jumpstarting the economy and, for that reason, we are paying arrears to the entrepreneurs from the eur 22 million that was a reserve programme. this has not been done for a long time and we have now activated that, therefore we will also have good financial control over it. on the whole, we have done what we can and have always taken into consideration that the palestinian people should not suffer. we try to at least assist them.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 21 june 2007.
the next item is the report by katerina batzeli, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on juvenile delinquency and the role of women, the family and society (2007/2011 (ini)) (a6-0212/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. juvenile delinquency is a widespread and unfortunately increasing phenomenon. we all ask ourselves the question, why? where were the mistakes made? what models and methods should be adopted to combat juvenile delinquency? some call for a complete abandonment of restrictive methods and a shift to preventive measures and the building of social solidarity. others call for strengthening the family and school functions. there are also extreme voices calling for the isolation of juvenile offenders. unfortunately, the main causes of educational failure are often not reflected in popular analyses and concepts, namely: globalisation resulting in the economic degradation of families, mass labour migration and the severing of family ties and the children's contact with their parents, which are very important in the educational process. secondly, the demoralization of young people through the mass distribution of unethical and immoral content, which promotes aggression and violence. weakening of the cooperation between parents and social and educational organisations and the school. breaking with cultural tradition, weakening the role of the church in the education of young people and not proposing any positive solutions in this regard. it seems that the rich and powerful have their consciences and imaginations dulled by the lure of money. capital has come before man, crushing under its weight humanism and the common good.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the increase in juvenile delinquency is inextricably linked to the growing degradation and pathology of the family and the promotion of a feminist vision of the role of women, which treats motherhood as a burden and an obstacle to self-fulfillment. juvenile delinquents come largely from broken, pathological families, often raised by single mothers struggling with more than just material problems. also, the disturbed emotional relationships between parents, the use of unethical and immoral parenting methods, criminal patterns, poor housing, lack of education, and lack of time for children all contribute to feelings of alienation and vulnerability and to hostility toward others. a child deprived of parental ties before the age of five manifests a tendency to deviation and delinquency, developing an antisocial personality, for the loss of the love of significant persons is the greatest evil that can befall a man. a particular problem is the destructive effect of liberal education - not accepting prohibitions and commands, media - promoting a hedonistic lifestyle, increasing violence and aggression that even affects politics. we must not forget the addictions to alcohol, nicotine, and destructive drug addiction, the social stratification that generates retaliatory actions. the fight against this must be based primarily on the restoration of ethical and moral principles in all areas of life, including the law, through action, prevention, judicial and extrajudicial measures, but also by restoring to women the status of a person who, when used for the purposes of implementing the lisbon strategy, does not properly raise her child. the growing social pathology, not just the one of crime, requires the restoration of human dignity, the role of motherhood and the family, where only children surrounded by love and morally educated have a chance to avoid breaking ethical principles and the established law.
madam president! i would like to thank mrs batzella for her excellent report. of course, most of us would agree that juvenile delinquency is a growing problem. methods of dealing with and preventing juvenile delinquency vary quite widely between member states. moreover, some politicians are trying to exploit this problem for their own political interests. by simply calling for drastically stricter punishments and stricter discipline in schools, they not only fail to solve the problem of juvenile delinquency but sometimes make the situation worse. i fully agree with the rapporteur that the main and most important part of the strategy to combat juvenile crime should be prevention. preventive policies are of course long-term, that is to say, they usually extend beyond the parliamentary term and the functioning of individual government departments. it also involves higher costs in the short term and does not provide quick political benefits, which makes politicians prefer repressive measures that allow for quick and easy effect, unfortunately, mainly media. the key issue is therefore to de-politicize the problem of juvenile delinquency completely and to develop a community framework in social terms, not in criminal law terms, which is a matter for the member states. i share the view that the adoption of a code of social solidarity and prevention for young people would be an important step forward. the rapporteur stressed that the problem of juvenile delinquency should be addressed on the basis of four factors: family, school, peer group and environment. it's only with this comprehensive approach that i have any hope of success. therefore, pro-family policies implemented by individual member states should not focus primarily on offering financial incentives for having children, but should primarily focus on providing the widest possible assistance and support to families after the birth of a child. i have no doubt that the most important link in this chain is the family.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. this report was originally intended to be a review of the commission's 2005 strategy communication and the strategy itself prepared by the council in the same year. but in the course of the work, it became clear that the work on the external dimension of the area of security, freedom and justice had made great progress, and had gained new impetus. they have brought new documents, new decisions and new actions, and our situation today is very different from that of a year and a half ago. i therefore decided to look ahead and not backwards, and this is the view adopted by both committees: the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on foreign affairs, which worked on this report in enhanced cooperation. it should therefore not be surprising that this report is really a set of recommendations to the commission and the council. this report is based on two assumptions. first, that in the modern world, the external and internal aspects of security are intertwined, overlapping, and in fact, inextricably linked. secondly, that in our legal systems and political practice, it is necessary to maintain a balance between civil liberties on the one hand, and the security of our citizens on the other. this means that if we want to ensure both the security and the freedom of our citizens, we must promote both values outside the european union, but always in a certain balance. our foreign policy must therefore take account of these very assumptions and adapt its instruments to them: common positions, joint actions, bilateral or multilateral agreements. in other words, we should include both anti-terrorism and human rights clauses in agreements with third countries, for example. and in its ongoing cooperation with these countries, the european union should promote both respect for human rights and the common fight against international terrorism. we are also aware here in parliament of the limitations and barriers which currently exist and which reduce the effectiveness of the european union in this area. they are partly due to our complex and unclear institutional structure, but also partly to a lack of will to deepen european integration. within each pillar, decisions on cooperation and external agreements are taken according to a different procedure. and the long-awaited integration of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters into the community is still waiting for better times. these times must come as soon as possible. we expect the next european union summit to lead to an intergovernmental conference, such as the one that will present a draft new treaty by the end of this year, and that in this treaty the union will have legal personality, the existing pillar structure will be abolished, the number of categories of legal acts will be reduced and decision-making procedures will be simplified and standardised. but before that happens, before the treaty enters into force, because it can only come into force in 2009, this report calls for the application of a transitional clause, the passerelle, in accordance with article 42 of the treaty on european union, in relation to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and immigration policy in the field of legal immigration and the integration of foreigners. given the immigration pressure on our southern border and the threat of organized crime on our eastern border, it would be a very serious policy error not to do so. and speaking of borders, i would like to draw the commission's attention to paragraph 42, which refers to the painful requirement for citizens of the 12 countries of the european union to have a visa to enter the united states. once again, we in parliament urge that this matter be dealt with. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues, both from my political group and the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups, and commissioner franco frattini, for the good and fruitful cooperation.
the president of the council. the first point i can say is that, as i said earlier, i will certainly have the matter you have raised investigated and see if there is a contradiction as you describe it. secondly, as a representative of the council presidency, i cannot, in the final analysis, give an opinion on the customs and rights of the various member states in order to make such an overview here. that is up to the nation states.
the president of the council. i have the honour to inform you as president that no initiative has been taken to give the commission a mandate to open negotiations on such agreements with georgia. however, the eu-georgia action plan under the european neighbourhood policy provides that a dialogue on issues related to passenger traffic, including readmission and visa issues, should be established at all times. in the context of the discussion on the possible unequal treatment of citizens living in abkhazia who obtain visas there on the basis of the new agreements, and on the question of whether there might be imbalances between the rights of the people living there and those of the people in georgia itself, i would add that this debate, which has also taken place at another level in the european parliament, will be taken up in order to bring about a solution.
the president of the council. the european union has concluded this visa facilitation and return agreement with russia. in recent weeks it has become clear that there is - and i can safely choose the same term as you - an imbalance, namely that citizens living in abkhazia or south ossetia suddenly have the opportunity to travel on a russian visa, while citizens of georgia cannot. this gave the european union an opportunity to consider how to start talks with georgia on this subject in the framework of the neighbourhood policy, in order to counter the imbalance - if it continues - between the possibility of obtaining a visa on the russian side and the absence of this possibility on the georgian side.
the president of the council. - i'm not going to. you asked at the february meeting about the state of play of the roaming regulation. i am therefore pleased to give you the following answer to your question, although i am sure you are already familiar with the content, since the issue of roaming affects us all, since we cannot live without these mobile phones. as you are probably aware, the roaming regulation, which is based on article 95 of the ec treaty, is subject to the codecision procedure under article 251 of the ec treaty. i can assure you that all three institutions have set themselves the objective of adopting the roaming regulation as soon as possible. the council reached political agreement on the proposal at its meeting on 6 and 8 june, thus approving the opinion of the european parliament at first reading. the legal and linguistic experts are already finalising the text so that it can be adopted under an accelerated procedure. the adoption of the act is expected by the end of june. the publication in the official journal will follow immediately.
madam president! unfortunately, the question was asked in a very different context. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. this is a great success for the whole parliament, the council and the commission. the rates set by the directive are not a success, however, because according to the experts of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, they were lower, the rapporteur raised them in the consultation and finally they were increased in the directive itself. i have a question, however, and it is that roaming is still, so to speak, unacceptable in europe. the question therefore is: when will roaming be abolished in the european union?
mr. chairman, please! the report we are discussing today is a good document and deserves our support. it is welcome that the union finally has a strategy to implement the hague programme. we've been waiting for her for a long time. almost every year, parliament debated organised crime, corruption, money laundering, illegal immigration and human trafficking, the fight against terrorism, the fight against drugs in afghanistan, the cia, data protection and so on. he also showed us how to combat these things. so the strategy matured slowly and long to finally take the shape that we have today. so the question is, what do we want to achieve with it? how do we want to do that? why do we want to do this? the report answers the first question: what do we want to achieve by this? first of all, we want to improve the functioning of democracy, but also police cooperation, judicial cooperation, cooperation in the field of human rights, the fight against terrorism in the external area. how are we supposed to do that? we already have mechanisms in place, above all the neighbourhood policy; we have institutions such as euromed, eurolat; we have bilateral and multilateral agreements. but it takes more than that. we want a greater role for the european parliament, which should be consulted more widely, and we want a better division of powers between the member states and the union, so that these matters can be dealt with more easily and more quickly. the only remedy is the european constitution. and the third question is, why do we want to do this? because we are concerned that our external partners do not always act in accordance with eu standards. if we want partners outside the union who not only know what democracy, the rule of law and justice are but also put them into practice, we must help them to do so, and the mechanisms provided for in the report are good. so by acting in the external dimension, we are extending the area of democracy, security, freedom and justice far beyond europe. this is important for citizens of third countries, but it is also hugely important for citizens of the european union, because the wider, more global and more universal the area of freedom and democracy, the safer the lives of eu citizens and the more stable democracy.
mr. chairman, please! as the rapporteur, the commissioner and the minister have stressed, the external and internal dimensions of security, freedom and justice are closely interlinked and mutually reinforcing. i have one minute to discuss only two subjects. first, there is terrorism. it's very much tied to muslim culture whether we like it or not. we would be limiting its presence in europe and the world if we would interfere less in the affairs of the muslim world and if we would finally recognize the right of the palestinians to have their own state. we use the word terrorism to them, but some of their actions are simply a fight for the freedom they lost in 1967. their action is often a reaction to our action. the second is immigration. integration of immigrants in europe costs too much, serves too few people, and usually doesn't work. the money spent would be better spent on education in their home countries. the concept of controlled immigration seems to be a good one.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. member states have developed their own rules for the collection of data on convicted persons in criminal proceedings. the data on court judgments are stored in the national criminal records. each member state is responsible for centralising and managing information on convictions, but we increasingly cross the border and, as we are not angels, we sometimes come into conflict with the criminal law of another member state, and we are tried and convicted there. and what to do with the verdicts: to register them or not? there are different, highly divergent practices in the member states and it is therefore necessary to harmonise this area as a matter of urgency, to strengthen cooperation between judicial authorities, to improve and streamline the exchange of information and to ensure that states provide each other with correct, complete and exhaustive information in response to any request for information from conviction records. this is what we are aiming at in this framework decision. we need a european mechanism for exchanging information in a standardised, computerised form, facilitating easy translations using automated procedures and on the basis of a standardised format. that is why my group supports this report. however, in the context of this report, which deals with judicial cooperation and the transfer of information, my group has one important reservation. well, in view of the need to reveal the whole truth and to respect the law and justice for the victims of the terrorist attack in spain on 11 march, we wish to express our concern at the choice of the rapporteur for this report, who is also responsible for other reports on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the european parliament must be seen as a transparent institution that serves the citizens. and therefore the rapporteurs of the individual reports, in relation to their activities on a national basis, cannot be seen as controversial. in conclusion, i would like to say that my group welcomes the good compromise we have found in this report. we support this report and we will vote for it. we also believe that the implementation of this decision will help to build the trust between member states, that we will build the much needed foundation of trust that will also work in criminal proceedings.
mr. chairman, please! making the use of the european refugee fund more flexible is of great importance in the implementation of cooperation and in improving the decision-making quality of the common asylum system. the rapporteur, whom i congratulate on his very good report, has made a number of points on this subject. last year, we completed the legal framework for the next edition of the refugee fund for 2008-2013. we already supported the commission's additional proposal, made during the debate, to reformulate the fund's existing objectives and to focus its action more on areas such as: harmonisation of practical cooperation between member states, assistance in the event of a particular pressure of mass influx of refugees, as well as the issue of the intra-eu resettlement system and the regional protection programme in third countries. this meant increasing the share of community action expenditure from 7% to 10%, making the procedure for financial assistance to countries affected by a sudden, mass influx of a large group of asylum seekers more flexible and allocating specific amounts in the distribution key. in various configurations, these amounts range from eur 3 000 to eur 5 000 per person received under intra-eu transfers as well as under the regional protection programme. here, we have a special financial incentive to help those who are particularly affected: children, those in need of medical care and women. it is therefore desirable that the fund be used effectively by the commission and the member states. we will look for guidelines, action plans and concrete results for the use of the refugee fund that will allow a significant improvement in the situation of refugees in europe. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on an excellent report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate ms suzanna roithova for taking up such an important subject. let's remember that the first work on the internet started only about 40 years ago. today we can talk about the internet revolution. this is a fantastic tool that gives us tremendous opportunities in many areas. but it also makes a lot of demands. it can be used for good or, unfortunately, for evil, as have many other tools that man has had in his civilization. the use of digital technology for electronic commerce, which involves the purchase of a wide range of goods and services, should also be seen in this context. the legal and technical solutions used should meet a number of criteria. that's what the report says. i would like to raise a few points in this context. first, access to the online shopping market should be much more widespread. hence the repeated issue of promoting broadband internet. currently, only about 25% of households in the european union have access to broadband, which means a good quality connection. secondly, the use of this form of purchase must be secure, both in terms of the transaction itself and in terms of obtaining an appropriate guarantee for the goods and services purchased irrespective of borders. thirdly, the frequent anonymity of transactions cannot in any way facilitate criminal activities such as piracy of copyrighted films or music. it is therefore necessary to clarify the term 'use for own use'. fourthly, activities such as the purchase of pedophilic material, pornography, the distribution of prostitution, etc. via the internet require particular police and prosecutorial activity. it's a slap on the wrist. fifth, payment made over the internet must be made in such a way that both parties to the transaction are fully secure. sixth, the advertising of goods or services which can be purchased by electronic means should enable the potential buyer to verify the information received. seventh, the security of digital banking transactions must be radically improved. eighth, new possibilities, especially in remote areas, of digital delivery of some medical services, diagnostics, remote monitoring are very important. ninth, another important topic in this area is distance learning. ten, let us remember that many of the benefits of consumer use of digital platforms are for people with disabilities. in conclusion, i would like to stress that without good quality, fairness, transparency and flexibility, we will not build a robust, competitive digital services market.
mr. chairman, please! the online transaction market plays an invaluable role in the provision of products, services and information. however, ms roithová rightly pointed out in her report that the development and growth of this market is still linked to its existing fragmentation into individual member states of the european union. i agree that this lack of harmonisation of rules across the european union and lack of consumer confidence in digital transactions can threaten the european union's competitiveness on the world market, especially as europe is already lagging behind the united states and asian countries. the creation of a european information system is a good idea, but it will require time and enormous financial resources. however, it seems that this proposal could increase the security of online transactions between entities from different countries, since it is precisely the diversity of the laws of the member states and the lack of access to them that is cited by companies as the main reason for the uncertainty in the execution of these transactions. i think that the situation in the new member states is also a pressing problem, where there is a lack of money for information campaigns on the access to and quality of electronic services. individual citizens in these countries are often deprived of access to such services, especially in rural areas. the report rightly points to discrimination against consumers from this group of countries in online commerce. i think the commission should address this issue, because all consumers in the union deserve equal treatment.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to thank all those who contributed to this report, and in particular mr aloyssas sakalais, who was rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs in the difficult procedure of enhanced cooperation between the two committees of our parliament, and i would of course like to call on the house to support this report for three reasons. firstly, because we are in favour of better coordination of our foreign and internal policies, so that foreign policy can pursue the priorities of the area of freedom, security and justice. secondly, because we are in favour of this specifically european approach, which balances the work of ensuring the security of our citizens with the work of ensuring their civil liberties. and thirdly, because we are calling for the communitization of what is left of the third pillar, in particular police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs martine roure on the progress of the negotiations on the framework decision on combating racism and xenophobia. racist crime remains a persistent and unchanging problem in all member states. it is estimated that over 9 million people a year are victims of racist crimes. at the same time, the considerable disparities between the laws on combating xenophobia and racism in the eu member states prevent effective action on these issues at both cross-border and pan-european level. it is therefore necessary to express strong political support for a europe of citizens and to adopt a framework decision to ensure the strict protection of fundamental rights. it is also necessary to establish in this regard a strict legal framework to combat racism and xenophobia by enabling the rapid adoption of a horizontal anti-discrimination directive in accordance with article 13 tec, providing for effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. cuba has been ruled by a dictatorship for almost half a century, and human rights are being violated all the time. it's almost the last communist stronghold in the world. besides cuba, such a bastion is north korea, and in a somewhat different but often equally cruel way, china. after the fall of communism in 1989, we hoped that these communist countries would also change their relationship and that communism in these countries would fall. unfortunately, that's not what happened, including in cuba. of course, the persecution in cuba has varied in intensity, from the most brutal persecution at certain times to a certain liberalization and, as it were, certain gestures towards the opposition at other times. but what is most dangerous is the fact that today we are seeing cuba manage to gain various allies and that also among the leftist governments of europe. it is extremely worrying that the governments of the european union member states often support, even indirectly, the cuban regime. today's moderation of the course towards these cruel regimes - also by the un, which makes it clear that human rights are not being violated in belarus and cuba, for example - is unacceptable. i call on our parliament to take a clear stand condemning the cuban government and to follow that stand with concrete steps leading to the fall of the cruel communist castro regime.
member of the commission. madam president, we have good reason to follow closely the recent developments in cuba, because after 47 years of ruling cuba fidel castro transferred power to his brother, raúl, who has been running the island in a relatively calm and organised fashion. it is too early to say whether fidel will fully recuperate from his illness, but nearly all observers agree that he will never be able to assume day-to-day management again. cuba, for the first time since the revolution of 1959, has to face the prospect of a country no longer fully run by fidel castro. this is definitely a new situation, which we must take into account. the question is: how can, and how should, the european union react to this new development? the council of the european union gave its first answer three days ago. in its conclusions on cuba of 18 june, the eu renewed its offer of an open and comprehensive dialogue with the cuban authorities and invited a cuban delegation to brussels to sound out the feasibility of such an exercise. this open-door approach is consistent with the eu’s overall policy of constructive engagement towards cuba. since 1996, when the european union adopted its position on cuba, experience has proved that only a policy of engagement and cooperation, not one of sanctions, has the potential to promote peaceful change in cuba towards democracy, respect for human rights, the rule of law, sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living conditions of the cuban people, as stipulated in the eu’s common position of 1996. only the establishment of an open, comprehensive and result-orientated dialogue with the cuban authorities will enable us to make the best use of the variety of instruments the eu and its member states have at their disposal to further cooperation in the fields of political relations, human rights, investment and trade, development work, scientific research, educational exchanges and culture. the european union is a profoundly value-based entity that makes respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms a key policy priority in its external actions. it is deeply convinced that this commitment towards open dialogue must also involve wider cuban civil society. extending a hand to the cuban government to enter into a long-term partnership with the european union only makes sense if, at the same time, the european union does all it can to maintain and step up its dialogue with those involved in cuban civil society, including human rights defenders and peaceful political activists. as long as cuba denies its citizens internationally-recognised basic civil political and economic rights, the european union will not stop lobbying for democracy and respect for the rule of law and fundamental freedoms. it should not stop expressing its full solidarity with and support to those peacefully committed to making these universal values a reality in cuba. this is the true meaning of the ‘two-track approach’: saying ‘yes’ to extending a hand to the cuban authorities for dialogue and cooperation while explicitly expressing critical remarks and concerns, and ‘yes’ to defending the right of cuban citizens to decide freely about their future. it is the commission’s firm conviction that the council conclusions of 18 june are a welcome and necessary first step in this direction.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. the demand that the european union abandon its policy of freezing diplomatic relations with cuba is unacceptable. we can agree to resume a full and open political dialogue with the cuban authorities on all areas of common interest, aimed at improving relations between the eu and cuba, but under certain conditions. if we did that unconditionally, it would be a very bad signal for the cuban regime. it would mean that we are condoning the unacceptable behavior of the authorities of this country. dialogue, by its very nature, is bilateral, not unilateral. the basic condition for the resumption of full dialogue must be the agreement of the cuban authorities to include in the dialogue issues related to the human rights situation in cuba. it is also difficult to imagine any meaningful talks with cuba without allowing the sakharov prize winners to come to europe. the current spanish government's behaviour is very ambiguous. it seems that spanish socialists should be more supportive of european policy towards cuba. it is our duty to consistently oppose castro's notorious human rights violations. if the dialogue between cuba and the european union is to lead to positive change, it must be a real dialogue, not a propaganda ploy. the union's openness has been used by the cuban side to carry out a propaganda offensive in the past.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. respect for human rights, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression are the foundations for building a state system that is fair to the people. the commission and the council should develop a coherent strategy of action to support the democratic process in ethiopia and put in place mechanisms to counter the deterioration of human rights in the region. aside from the arrests, the imprisonment of people for their beliefs, what is particularly shocking to me personally is the reporting of the suffering and abuse of children. the harm done to defenseless and innocent children must be said "no". i consider it the greatest crime that deserves to be condemned without mercy. only by acting together and in concert with the countries neighbouring ethiopia, with the full cooperation of the international community, can we correct the disturbing situation in that country and bring about a normality in which man is the subject and not the object.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. if ethiopia executes more oppositionists in the near future, it will be a defeat not only for ethiopians but also for our democracy. as i have observed the situation in the country, i have the impression that the 2005 parliamentary elections were seen by the ethiopian authorities as a success story, not a beginning. i wonder if the reason for this is that this election was considered, despite the legitimate and documented abuses by the ruling party, as the most democratic election in ethiopia's three thousand year history. the resolution which we are about to adopt in the european parliament today contains many examples which must be strongly condemned. we continue to see a dramatic deterioration in human rights and a complete disruption of the process of democratization in ethiopia. the arrest of leading opposition figures facing the death penalty in trials that do not meet international standards of free and fair trial cannot be justified in any way. we cannot accept the violation of basic democratic rights on the grounds that we are in africa and therefore do not have to expect such an exaggerated respect for european democratic standards. ethiopia is a country with a rich and extraordinary tradition, and i think the ethiopian people deserve much more, and we are obliged to help them do that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. the european union takes a strong stand on the abuses of the military regime in burma and urges burma to improve its human rights record and move towards democracy. despite international criticism, the authorities continue to imprison and persecute pro-democracy activists. i believe that the situation in this country can be improved by stopping the supply of weapons and other strategic resources by china and india on the one hand, and on the other hand by respecting human rights by foreign companies investing in burma. it is also important to develop programmes to support burmese civil society, and in this context women's and ethnic minority organisations. the union for a europe of nations, which i represent, supports and will continue to support all efforts to protect human rights, the rule of law and democratic freedoms, including freedom of assembly and freedom of expression. it also draws attention to the economic situation of the burmese people, that more than 15 million, or about 30% of the population, live below the poverty line and require immediate assistance, help to save health and lives.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. it has been six months since the european parliament last adopted a resolution warning of the dramatic internal situation in burma. but the ruling military regime has made no progress on the road to democracy. it is very concerned about the very bad economic situation in a country where 30% of the population lives below the poverty line; where human rights are openly violated and forced labour and child soldiering are commonplace; where opposition activists are persecuted, kept in prisons for years like sakharov prize and nobel prize winner aung san suu kyi, who has been deprived of her liberty for 17 years. in this context, it is important to strongly demand the participation of all political forces in burma, including representatives of the national league for democracy, in the national convention preparing the draft of the new constitution. particularly important for the country's future is burma's participation in asean structures, which obliges member countries to step up their efforts for democracy. china and india should exert political and economic pressure on the burmese regime by withholding aid to the burmese military, and the international community should apply economic sanctions, including the freezing of funds of government members and others associated with them. only such decisive action can force the burmese regime to make democratic changes.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. today's debate on human rights violations is again about the political and social situation in burma, where since 1962 the military has been in power, with one of the largest regimes in the world. for more than 40 years, the country has suffered human rights violations, with thousands of people imprisoned for their opposition activities. people are forced to work, children are conscripted into the army. most burmese lack access to health care, many die of tuberculosis, malaria, hiv, aids, and nearly half of all children are out of school. the red cross is also shut down, along with the lack of humanitarian aid and protection for those in need. the junta general does not respond to interventions by international human rights organisations, the un or the international labour organisation, nor to resolutions of the european parliament or documents of the council of the european community. on 15 may 2007, aung san suu kyi, the opposition leader and nobel peace prize winner who has spent 11 of the past 17 years in prison or under house arrest, was again extended her house arrest for another year. we call for the release of not only the nobel prize winner, but also other political prisoners, along with the restoration of the activities of the national league for democracy, humanitarian aid, thus preventing the destruction of the burmese people and national minorities. the special problem of the existence of regimes and totalitarianisms is the ineffective actions of international organizations, whose sanctions, contrary to their announcements, are not aimed at the economic structures of the regimes and the embargoes applied most hit the oppressed and already extremely poor population. all our actions, and our resolutions in the european parliament, are superficial and ineffective if we fail to tackle this problem.
mr. chairman, madam chancellor, i have to go. i should like to begin by referring to the speech by mr schulz, who in an unacceptable way allows himself to lecture and insult the polish government, a democratically elected government which is supported in its negotiating position even by the opposition and which therefore enjoys the support of the overwhelming majority of the polish people, who have been insulted today by mr schulz. that cannot be allowed in this house. as for the german presidency, i would like to say that it has undoubtedly been involved from the outset in putting the european community in order. unfortunately, it has made it its priority to revive the constitutional treaty rejected in the french and dutch referendums. therefore, its greatest success was to convince the 27 heads of government and state to agree to sign a shortened version of the treaty. however, the negotiating style, which took the form of blackmailing countries expressing a different position, was a concern. it is to be hoped that it will not become the norm in relations between the member states of the union. i would like to take this opportunity to ask mrs merkel, what is the legal status of the constitutional treaty in germany, which was not signed by the president, and whether it is true that the weighting of votes in the german bundesrat is based on a different system of preferences, which was so sharply attacked at the summit.
mr. chairman, madam chancellor, i have to go. as head of the polish left delegation in the socialist group, i welcome the compromise reached at the european council summit on the acceptance of the mandate and the opening of the intergovernmental conference. the negotiating mandate adopted suggests that the new treaty may retain the most important institutional provisions of the constitutional treaty: the charter of fundamental rights, the enlarged powers of the european parliament, the appointment of a european head of state and a provision on a common energy policy. i am glad that the polish government has finally abandoned the concept of a primary system, which is opposed by the other countries of the european union, and has reached a compromise. it was a wise decision. nevertheless, the polish government's negotiating techniques and its use of arguments dating back to the second world war are damaging poland's image and threatening the good relations between poland and germany. and yet the polish public has a different view of cooperation within the european union than the polish government. eighty percent of poles support european integration and i have no doubt that it was the position of polish public opinion that influenced the acceptance of the compromise at the summit. today, in a meeting with the socialist group, the chancellor said that relations with poland are as important to her as with france, and misunderstandings are a thing of the past. i thank her for that. i therefore call on the polish government to work actively with the other member states to prepare the final text of the treaty so that it can enter into force before the european parliament elections in 2009. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! europe needs wise and thoughtful leadership, but even more so common action in important areas, based on the declared values that are the foundation of this union. if the union is treated as a common market, then the profit motive will override the main objectives and it will no longer be a union but a marketplace. if the union is to be a cultural, political body to some extent, then only 'more europe', as mr barroso often says, will also bring more good for each member of the union. now, one detail - i think that the element proposed by poland, and it had the right to do so, would not be bad for true democracy and community and equality of citizens. a double majority can be read as a signal that the union will not expand for the next few decades. in conclusion, i would like to express a wish to all of us and in particular to the president-in-office, which should be understood by both parts of europe: be an example to your successor for the efficiency of negotiations which can only be achieved when prosperity, the rights of all european peoples, and the real community and equality of citizens are the top priority.
mr. chairman, please! in the last few months we have been dealing with attacks by the chairman of the socialist faction on poland and its authorities. contrary to his declarations about fighting xenophobia in the european forum, he himself shouted accusations against my country in a very arrogant way. these attacks did not show any substantive discussion, but only hatred and prejudice towards poland and its authorities. i ask the president to take action to stop mr schulz from using the eu institutions to spread national hatred. his intolerance of nations pursuing their own interests is contrary to the ethics of the mp.
mr. chairman, please! at the last session of parliament, commissioner almunia, representing the commission, surprised many meps by stating that the consequences of not joining the eurozone for the new member states, he named four countries, would be different from the consequences for the old member states, namely the united kingdom, sweden and denmark. this very frank but surprising statement shows a certain discrimination against the new member states. if the new union is to be treated differently from the old member states, the commissioner officially admits that there is an unwritten but real division into europe a and europe b. this is an unacceptable situation, and it is three years after the accession of the 10 new member states to the union and six months after the accession of the two following. it would be good if the representatives of the european commission could finally understand that the union is a whole and that there is no old union, which is better, and no new union, which is worse.
mr. chairman, please! the six-monthly presidency of the european union by each member state imposes a dynamic of action and a determination to achieve the objectives at all costs - in too short a time. and this kind of behavior creates a lot of tension because we're accelerating some of the decision-making processes too much. this is what happened with the constitutional treaty. the too long period of so-called reflection was a period of nap, not a time of serious consideration that should be pursued during this reflection. during the six months of the german presidency, it was difficult to catch up and there was no time to properly discuss the best solutions. the adoption of too little time for the work of an intergovernmental conference, and this during the holiday period, can lead to a similar situation, when important decisions can again be taken on the proverbial knee and without proper preparation.
mr. chairman, please! fathers don't pay enough attention to their daughters' clitoris and vagina. too rarely do their caresses involve these areas of the body, and only in this way can girls develop a sense of pride in their sex. the child touches all parts of the father's body, sometimes exciting him. a father should do the same. these shocking, perverse and frightening contents can be read in the official brochure "love, body and play in the doctorate" published by the federal center for health education in germany. it is aimed at parents of children aged 1 to 3 years. the brochure is required reading in nine german states. it is used in the training of nursery and kindergarten teachers. mr. chairman, please! an official agency of the ministry of family affairs, this brochure encourages incest and pedophilia. this is unacceptable. i ask that the relevant committee of the european parliament deal with this type of publication, official governmental publications. in any member state of the union, official brochures may not encourage pedophilia or incest.
that concludes the point of the proceedings.
the next item is the debate on - the report by mrs åsa westlund on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (com (2006) 0423 - c6-0258/2006 - 2006/0143 (cod)) (a6-0153/2007) - the report by mrs åsa westlund on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on food additives (com (2006) 0428 - c6-0602/2006 - c17/017/017/017 (cod)) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common authorisation procedure for food additives, food enzymes and food flavourings (com (2006) 0184 final) and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2000/83/ec (cod) no 83/26/ec (com (2006) 0425/ec) and council directive 2001/36 (cod) no 1496/ec) on the protection of the environment and of natural and of plant products (com (2006) 0146/2006) 0425/ec (cod) and regulation (a46) 14), and the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and council amending directive 2006/ec (ec (com (ec) no 1496/ec) no 1496/ec (a4/2006) and council on the protection of the environment and the use of natural and flavourings and certain flavouring substances (com (com (com (2006) 0146-046) 0425/ec) no 149 and on the european parliament and
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, more and more food is being enriched with chemicals in europe and around the world. food companies are increasingly serving the public, especially children, with food substitutes. very often it seems that we consume as much food as we do chemical additives. the youngest are most vulnerable to the effects of bad food. they're the most easily tempted by advertising, they're the ones who consume the most coloring in drinks and so-called sweets, especially those wrapped in foil. while the report is a good step in the right direction, the lack of a ban on gmos in food, or even the emphasis on their use, is a cause for concern. by eliminating unhealthy food additives and replacing them with gmos in some cases, are we not exposing the future of society to diseases and their consequences on the body that are unpredictable today?
mr. chairman, please! the increasing competition between food producers and their competition for consumers means that they are trying to make their products more attractive. manufacturers artificially give their products a better appearance, a better taste, or a longer shelf life. these actions are not always beneficial to the health of consumers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment. therefore, such broad exclusions from the definition of food additives are incomprehensible. why are sugars excluded, including sugars such as starch, ammonium chloride, pectin or amino acids? is it the pressure of the big manufacturers again? if so, the regulation will not have fulfilled its purpose.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to four points in this discussion. first, food additives must not endanger the health and life of consumers. secondly, they should only be used where technologically necessary, provided that this is to the benefit of consumers and where the desired effect cannot be achieved by using natural spices. thirdly, food labels should provide more reliable information on food additives. fourthly, additives produced from genetically modified organisms or produced by genetically modified organisms should not be used as food additives at all. if this happens, however, the labels should not only provide reliable information but also warn the consumer that these are additives containing gmos.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to thank the members for a very interesting debate. as i anticipated, on some issues we do not completely agree, but i am sure that with discussions and some goodwill on both sides we will be able to find solutions. to begin with, the priority for all of us, the main consideration, is the protection of the consumer, there is no question about that, and i am sure you do not doubt my willingness to promote the interest of the consumer in this respect, but at the same time we have to remain proportional, we have to be practical and we have to be able to achieve this target with the smallest possible administrative burden. i would like to refer to some of the issues, though i do not want to take up too much time. firstly, on the issue of codecision and comitology, maybe i should remind you that the reason we, the two institutions, agreed on the new principle of comitology with scrutiny was precisely to find a procedure through which we could have a practical, simple, speedy way of taking decisions on technical and scientific issues by giving a stronger say to the european parliament and having more transparency for the european parliament to be able to express its views. by the way, this has not been used yet, we have just started with that. my legislation on health claims was the first to adopt this, so referring to the old comitology procedure is not relevant to what we are discussing now because now we are discussing the new one, which achieves the targets of transparency and of involvement of the european parliament but at the same time allows a speedy and practical way of deciding on technical and scientific questions. imagine having to go through the whole legislative proposal every time you have to decide on an enzyme, on an additive, on a calorie, when at the end of the day it will all be based on the views of the european food safety authority that we have jointly, with legislation from parliament, created exactly for this purpose. i would ask parliament, or the sides of parliament which are keen on introducing codecision in this respect, to reconsider, because in the end we will not achieve any of the intended targets we have set and it will eventually, due to the lengthy procedures, work against the interests of consumers as well. on the issue of the legal basis, i agree with mrs doyle. you know our position and i believe that we should have a single legal base. i believe that this can cover all the other considerations, because the other considerations are reflected in the legislation itself. on the issue of allergenicity, i agree that this should be one of the legitimate factors to consider when authorising food additives, so it will be a factor to be taken into account. labelling, too, is a very important aspect and will help the consumers get information, but we could not accept a total restriction on those additives which may be allergenic as the consumers affected by those can be protected through the labelling legislation. on the double authorisation procedures with the gmos i agree that we have to have a practical and good administrative practice. therefore, we could accept the proposed clarification but with some rewording to make the text compatible with regulation (ec) no 1829/2003. on the issue of herbs and spices, i agree they are natural, but, at the same time, it does not mean that they do not contain certain substances naturally which can still pose health problems. that is why it is useful and important to also include those on the list and have the maximum levels. we had a situation recently in at least one member state where we had to consider the possibility of reintroducing maximum levels. therefore, just because something is natural does not necessarily, and by definition, mean that it does not also contain some substances that when consumed in excessive amounts can be harmful. on the question of nine months for the commission, six months for efsa, nine months is the maximum time proposed, but that does not mean that it will take nine months. however, at the same time, based on the opinion of efsa, there is a procedure for the commission to consult with the stakeholders and the member states to see how they can deal with the technological needs, the benefits to consumers and to ensure that consumers are not misled. there are many other relevant factors. as you know, consultation processes in the european union need some time. we have to be able to exhaust those processes. that is why we would like to have adequate time, but that does not necessarily mean that this time will be exhausted. on the issue of the benefits to the consumer, we could accept that these be included in a recital – this would reinforce an important principle – but not in a restrictive way in the legislation. i will not go into details. when we get our position we will be able to see the reason why we can accept part of it. on the issue of how the legislation on pesticides complements this legislation and vice versa, we believe that one complements the other. therefore, when a product is not covered under plant protection legislation it will be covered by this one. it is important for clarity to maintain a clear line between these two areas of legislation. i was specifically interested to see whether there was a possibility of creating a gap, and that is not possible. it is clear that one or the other pieces of legislation will assess the safety of the product, depending at what stage it is being used, and taking into account some technical aspects of it. on the issue of ‘natural’ and the question of 90% or 95%, it is important that when we refer to the source we have the highest percentage possible of that source. at the same time, the rest has to come from a natural source. on the other hand, if something is to be called ‘natural’ and not by reference to a specific source, then it has to be 100% natural. the main target for all this is to ensure that consumers are not being misled. at the end of the day, the most important aspect of the proposals is to assess safety, make sure that there is no risk to the health of consumers and provide information so that consumers can make an informed choice. it will be up to them to decide whether they want to buy a processed product or something natural and fresh. it is our basic policy to promote the consumption of fresh foods, but we cannot exclude the other products from the market. therefore we have to give consumers a choice and then they can exercise it according to their needs.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 july 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a second programme of community action in the field of health for the period 2007-2013 (16369/2/2006 - c6-0100/2007 - 2005/0042 ((cod)) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful organisms.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the community action programme in the field of health for 2007-13, which was intended to set the direction for the european health service, was controversial from the outset, not only because of its vague provisions on funding. the funds are intended to be used only for international ngos, while other programmes have been eliminated. the document provides for significant amounts, up to 60% and in exceptional cases up to 80% of the membership contribution, to be awarded to international ngos, which often have pro-abortion policies in their agendas and are sometimes branches of pharmaceutical companies. equally questionable is the funding of laboratories that do work without specifying the type of research being done. unfortunately, the programme is only very briefly concerned with access to health services, care for the elderly, and lacks family care, the fight against civilization diseases, and access to highly specialized counselling. the program is about healthy eating, healthy living. the issue of cross-border health services is re-emerging with negative consequences for some healthcare systems. the programme, which is so limited in terms of funding, does not seem to cover the full range of european health problems.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank the members once again for a very interesting debate and for the support expressed. i do not want to repeat what has already been said and what i said in my introductory remarks, but i shall make some clarifications. on the issue of cancer, i should like to clarify that cancer remains one of the commission's top priorities and is part of the health programme. i referred specifically to cardiovascular diseases because that was in a question tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but through research and other programmes we support many initiatives regarding cancer. we had an opportunity to discuss this issue in this house quite recently. i should like to correct one mistake. mrs belohorská is not here and i think that she did not follow the debate closely on how the financial perspectives were adopted and how it was decided who took the decision. it was not the commission who reduced the budget – we are not that suicidal. as you know, it was the council who decided unanimously that there should be a reduction, and the areas that suffered most, unfortunately, were health and education and culture. i have to say that it is regrettable and i have had the opportunity to express this on many occasions in discussions here and i understand the frustration of mr trakatellis when he had to deal with this issue. however, at the end of the day we want to take action, we want to help our citizens and we want to move forward, and therefore we have to make do with what we have and make the best possible use of our limited funds and resources. that is why i agree with many of you, and it is our priority, that prevention is one of the main targets because it has added value and a multiplying effect so that we can make better use of the funds by concentrating on prevention. that is one of my main arguments. i have been trying repeatedly to convince member states that spending on health is not a cost but an investment. it has to be viewed as such. we will benefit in the long run, and that is a disincentive for taking measures when benefits will appear sometime in the future. nevertheless, i think that the time has come when we cannot expect to solve the problems only through reforms of the health systems or through patient mobility or through increasing the insurance costs but we have to invest in prevention and on health and this is one of the main priorities. i am looking forward to working with you all in the next period. perhaps i could refer to just one specific amendment, that raised by mrs mcavan. we have no objection to agreeing to the deletion of that sentence. you realise that for us it is a big achievement to have the healthy life years included as an indicator and this was the purpose. it was just a way of expressing it differently, but we see the point so we do not object to removing it, especially because it is the wording that is the problem and not actually the validity of the indicator. regarding the point raised by mr fjellner on the issue of patients’ rights, we had the opportunity to discuss this issue in this house and we are looking into it through the healthcare initiative which should be adopted towards the end of the year. there are different systems in different member states so we do not always agree on a common approach, but at least the first step will be taken and many issues like information for patients and other aspects of patients’ rights will be tackled through the healthcare initiative. i should like to conclude by thanking you all, in particular the environment committee, as well as mr trakatellis for being patient and persistent. i am looking forward to working with all of you in the implementation of the programme.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 108 (5). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday, 10 july 2007.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the risk management of mon 863 maize.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on 12 june , i hosted a conference at the european parliament in brussels , with the participation of eminent scientists from many countries , on the risks of the spread of genetically modified organisms . the conclusions of their speeches clearly indicate that there is growing evidence of the enormous harmfulness of gmos. the big biotech companies, under the guise of technological progress, are spreading a great threat to civilization around the world. i'm more convinced by the opinions of these scientists than by mrs. sommer's assurances, with all due respect to her, that mon 863 corn is safe. there are still few farms and crops with gmos in the european union. there is one last chance to protect europe from this threat. i have a question for the commissioner: is the european commission going to do anything about this and, above all, is it going to take account of the will of the citizens and of the entire regions of europe, the vast majority of which want to defend themselves against gmos? or is the commission going to succumb to the false propaganda of alleged technological progress?
member of the commission. mr president, i know that the gmo authorisations are a sensitive issue but, first of all, we have to remind ourselves that, based on european legislation adopted by parliament and the council, gmo products are allowed in the european union, provided they go through the authorisation procedure i have just described. that authorisation procedure provides for the risk assessment to be done by efsa. so, whether some of us agree or disagree with the concept of gmo products, we are all bound by the european legislation. this is the rule of law so we have to follow it. first of all, on efsa’s work, as you know, parliament was informed and i came along myself as well. we have taken decisions on improving the work of efsa to make it more thorough and to take more account of the views of the member states and all scientific developments that may take place during the authorisation procedure. the commission adopted an action plan which has been put in place already and is being implemented and which will also be included in the legislative framework sometime in 2008. it is part of the annual policy strategy for 2008. there we take into account how we can improve the situation and make proposals based on the views of the member states and on long-term effects and many other aspects. i also have to insist that in the european union we have the highest standards and the strictest legislation when it comes to gmo products. that is why you know we have continuously been taken to the wto and are not doing so well there. but nevertheless our legislation has been accepted by the wto because it is science-based and the decisions are based on risk assessment so, in this way, we can fulfil our international obligations by taking into account primarily and foremost the safety of european consumers and european citizens. so it is not a question of personal preferences but an issue of applying the existing legislation. i know mrs breyer referred to those questions. there is a procedure. we have to get information. you will be provided with all the details on these questions. but again the questions arising are linked to the risk and the risk is not being assessed by us. it is assessed by efsa. therefore, we have to wait for the decision of efsa on this issue before we actually provide the replies. on this specific product there were many evaluations and many studies. they all caused efsa to re-evaluate and reassess its position and it came to the same conclusions. so it was not something taken lightly. it was not something that was ignored. whenever there was new science and new evidence, this was taken into account and we asked efsa, which again is the risk assessor of the european union, to take them into account. it is true that efsa’s latest opinion was based on the existing study but also professor séralini’s paper was on the same study. it was a question of how you analyse, how you do statistical analysis of the existing data and that is why we had a special task force on statistical analysis, internally and externally, and it came to the conclusion that there were flaws in the analysis and the conclusions of professor séralini. that does not always mean that he who is negative is always right. sometimes people who are positive as well may be accurate and correct. finally, as to the issue of which studies the authorisation would be based on, the decision was that we would continue with the legislation that was originally adopted; that the applicant has the responsibility of providing the data and the studies information. in this way, they have the burden of proof which is assessed by the authorities. the authorities can ask for any further additional studies they would like and in this way they have the responsibility of proving their case. i will not go into the issue of the cost of eventually changing the system. the cost will eventually be a burden on the taxpayers of the european union and not the industry. but the main reason is they should have the burden of proof and therefore the authority can analyse this data based on a critical analysis. i would like to remind you that a similar situation is used in the emea, the medicine authority of the european union, where again the industry provides all the clinical trials and clinical studies and the decision is taken. so i can assure you that we take into account and we will make sure that the efsa takes into account and assesses and evaluates any new scientific evidence that may arise and the moment a risk is identified we will not hesitate to take the appropriate measures. as you know, we have done that and i personally have done that in the past on many occasions with unauthorised products.
i'm closing the debate.
the next item is the statement by the commission on the agreement with the united states on pnr.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken, and although i do not agree with most of the speeches, you know that i always speak with absolute frankness. ladies and gentlemen, there are two sides to every deal. the united states has the power to agree or reject a deal. we had the duty, first of all, to ask the council of ministers for a mandate, a mandate which was given to us and within which we operated. the agreement was approved by the member states - that is, by those who gave us the power to negotiate - who clearly felt that this agreement was a far better instrument than the possibility of having no agreement at all after 31 july this year, which is a few days away. frankly, i would have liked to hear from those who have sharply criticised this agreement at least a reflection on the consequence of having none. can any of you imagine that airlines would negotiate bilaterally with the united states, getting a higher level of protection of personal data? i don't think anyone could have imagined that this would happen. the protection of personal data of european citizens would be seriously jeopardised if there were no certainty about the legal rules. as you know, this is the first time that a binding agreement has been reached, unlike the previous one, which had no binding commitments but was unilateral. in that agreement we recognised the 'push' principle, which this parliament has repeatedly called for, as a fundamental criterion. if some airlines have said that they are not yet able to switch from the 'pull' system to the 'push' system, this is not because of the united states or europe, but because some of them have not yet been technically able to change the system. since others have been able to do so, it depends on technical ability and good will and we will help them to take this step. we have established the criteria of the "push" system: however, if an airline declares that it is not technically able to implement it, other proposals should be considered. can we hold off on that airline's landing rights? i am prepared to consider proposals but we have also set a date, which is the end of this year, which seems technically feasible, since iata (the international air transport association) has told us that it is reasonable to think that within six months all airlines will be technically able to introduce the new system. this is purely a technical reason. we have established the destruction of sensitive data within 30 days, which was not previously planned; we have established that european citizens will be covered by the us privacy law, which in many debates in this parliament has been mentioned as an important and strict condition: european citizens will be able to invoke the same law as american citizens if the us department of state has violated the use of their data. this element was not present, i am quoting facts. mr lambrinidis has rightly called for a third country. it is true that the data in question may be transmitted to third countries, but, as you know, the power to control the correct use of the data is the same. the fact that they are transmitted to a third country shall not affect the power of control: the third country will use that data according to the same rules as set out in the agreement in question and within the same scope of the right, which we retain, to verify whether or not the data has been used correctly. someone asked about the possibility of terminating the agreement: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. article 24 of the treaty is an intergovernmental basis and not, unfortunately, a community basis because the court of justice of the european union has decided so. an agreement was previously negotiated on a basis of your full participation as a european parliament. unfortunately, a judgment of the court of justice has ruled that the legal basis was not correct and, as you know, everything is due to that judgment. it is true, mr lambsdorff, that many member states do not conform to european standards, which they should apply fully. you are well aware that i have not only published the state of the art for each country a few days ago, but also that i have initiated infringement proceedings and i do not think i need to wait for the outcome of these proceedings before adopting proposals which are useful in the fight against terrorism. i do not share the view of those who say: "let's do other things first and then deal with terrorism". terrorism is a dramatic threat today. i think that this agreement could have been better if we had been alone in negotiating it, but since agreements are made by two, it is a compromise and, in the logic of compromise, the council of ministers unanimously adopted a favourable opinion. i think he did the right thing and the german presidency, which has worked so hard on this agreement, has got the right recognition. it is a binding agreement which will certainly help to combat terrorism, or better yet, to prevent it. no member of the libe committee can forget that the us secretary of state for the interior has come to parliament and handed over to you the details and in some cases the precise facts of suspected terrorists who have been blocked thanks to pnr data. these were a few cases, but they involved people who had been arrested on the basis of pnr data and were then involved in bombings in other parts of the world. i believe that despite the many impact assessments we have made and will be able to make, the agreement in question, which provides legal certainty, is infinitely better than no agreement at all. i am sorry if we disagree on this point but i have a duty of candor.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007.
the next item is the report by alejo vidal-quadras, drawn up on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the prospects for the internal market in gas and electricity (2007/2089 (ini)) (a6-0249/2007).
madam president! there is one serious problem with the principle of reciprocity that governs our energy policy towards russia. the russian understanding of this principle is often based on a policy of force and does not take into account european market expectations. recently, for example, russia has expelled more european energy companies from its territory. gazprom, meanwhile, is benefiting from the opening of the european energy market with growing investments in as many as 16 of the 27 eu member states. in germany, france and italy, gazprom even has access to individual consumers, and we know that these countries represent the lion's share of the energy market. the conclusion is that the energy market liberalization, which is beneficial from the consumer's point of view, should be carried out in such a way that it does not bring europe to an even greater dependence on the russian economic and political complex. i see challenges for the commission and for competition policy, but also challenges for the legislators who have to build on the foundations that have been outlined in the commission document and in the very good report by mr vidal-quadras and translate them into legal language.
madam president! i congratulate commissioner piebalgs on another good proposal, this time in favour of a european energy community, a common market. i also congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. the ownership chapter has been the most emotional, but i have three comments on a slightly different issue. of course, i support the division of property very, very strongly. my remarks, however, concern other matters. first, the european single market requires strong physical links between national and even regional markets. transmission system operators need to be incentivised to invest in cross-border connections. support for such links needs to be strengthened by the european union or by national states. without this there will be no common market and no real competition. secondly, european integration should not only concern energy and co2 emission rights, but also the green, red and white certificates market. the development of these markets should be geared towards their europeanisation. and the most important, the fundamental issue - the fundamental problem of the union today is to carry out a strategic investment programme to rebuild old and build new, highly efficient sources. the question is, do we want to base these investments on the simple idea of a general, slow price increase? this may prove too costly for europe's energy-intensive industries and for small and medium-sized enterprises. we need to look for efficient investment regulation mechanisms, for example investment certificates, which could give us new opportunities. congratulations again.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the restriction of the placing on the market of certain measuring devices containing mercury is an important document limiting the amount of mercury released into the environment. its form, methyl sulphate, in the aquatic environment, goes through the food chain: fish, fruits, vegetables, and it deposits in our bodies, poisoning us. thirty-three tons of mercury in new and twenty-seven tons of mercury in decommissioned installations are placed on the market annually. technical progress is limiting the use of mercury in industry and manufacturing. the recovery of mercury from decommissioned equipment and the strong restriction of imports of such equipment from non-eu countries are important in the treatment of mercury. such a ban should be included in the legislation of all member states of the european union by means of a rapid amendment of council directive 76/769/eec on restrictions on the introduction into the community of dangerous substances and preparations. thank you for your work, mrs. martinez.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mercury compounds have long been known to be toxic to humans and the environment. mercury easily enters the food chain and the most vulnerable are children, including those born before birth, and people who come into direct contact with mercury. mercury damages the body, particularly the nervous system, impairs coordination, vision, and has negative effects on health and the environment. it is therefore appropriate to implement provisions leading to the restriction of the use of mercury in the various measuring devices. however, medical devices containing mercury should be systematically withdrawn from the market, in particular in new member states with low health expenditure. the estimated increase in public costs alone due to the ban on the placing on the market of mercury thermometers will be approximately pln 3 million per year. sudden withdrawal of mercury-containing measuring instruments not only results in high costs, but may even lead to the abandonment of temperature and pressure measurements, which is all the more dangerous because cheap electronic instruments are not very accurate. we have not only proposed an extension of the transition period, which would have reduced costs considerably. we believe that thermometers for premature babies should be included in the ban, because of their specific measurement range, their reliability and accuracy, ovulation thermometers needed to diagnose not only abnormalities but also procreation as a basic method of natural family planning. the commission has also proposed that the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes be amended to include the use of mercury in the manufacture of certain products.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and thanking all those involved for their contribution to the project. even partial harmonisation of the rules on conflict of laws in the area of non-contractual obligations will certainly have a positive impact on the functioning of the community's internal market. the harmonisation and standardisation of rules governing the handling of situations such as road accidents, unfair competition, damage to the environment, the treatment of foreign law or the infringement of personal rights occurring in crossborder areas will make it possible to build on a single legal basis common to all member states. this will significantly increase the certainty of the choice of law and the predictability of the settlement of disputes and facilitate the recognition of judgments. it should be noted that the regulation, as an instrument of private international law, does not harmonise the substantive law of the member states, which retain full autonomy, but harmonises its conflict with national law. this means that the same national law is applied in similar cases, but it does not decide the substance of the case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of personal data are respected.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on the liberalization of postal services, i would like to note with satisfaction the changes made by the committee on transport and tourism to the draft submitted by the european commission. they are not in line with the expectations of the new member states. first, the extension of the deadline for the full opening of the postal services market to the new member states by two years is noteworthy. this additional time is needed for the postal companies of these countries to carry out the necessary restructuring in such a way that they are able to compete with the strong postal companies of the old member states. secondly, to provide additional financial support to undertakings providing the so-called universal service either by establishing a special fund to which all operators will contribute or by granting state compensation to the operator providing such a service. this is of great importance for countries such as poland, where a large proportion of the population lives in rural areas, often in very dispersed settlements, and this significantly increases the cost of providing postal services.
member of the commission. madam president, as i indicated earlier, the report under discussion shows that parliament’s and the commission’s thinking on key financial services issues is very much in harmony. both our institutions are thinking ahead beyond 2010, which is the date that our current policy works towards. we are aware of the potential innovations and hazards that lie around the corner. we are working on how to make our supervisory structures work better. we are building strong relationships with our regulatory partners in other jurisdictions, knowing that our interlinkages will only increase. we are constantly looking for ways to ensure that our financial markets work to the benefit of all citizens. given the positive collaboration between the institutions i am sure we will be successful.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. today's debate is the culmination of several months of debate in the european parliament on modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century. it was a very heated debate, sometimes turbulent, but nothing strange about it, because it was about an issue that affects almost every european, regardless of age, profession or place of residence. the intense discussion was not confined to this house. the publication of the green paper triggered a wide public debate throughout the european union involving numerous trade unions, employers' organisations, economic and labour organisations and many non-governmental initiatives in both the old and new member states. after these few months, i have the impression that most of the participants in the debate agreed that changes in labour law seem necessary in the face of the challenges of the present century. what are the challenges that we've been thinking about and talking about? the four main ones are: first, the positive and negative consequences for european economies of increasing globalisation. secondly, the rapid development of the services sector, which is creating more and more jobs throughout the european union and in the new and old member states, but with a very different character than the jobs created by industry. the third challenge is the rapid changes in technology, especially modern communication techniques, which are having a significant impact on the way work is done today. finally, a very important challenge is demographic change, which is already seriously changing the situation in european labour markets and will have an even more radical impact in the near future. while there was broad agreement on the need for change, the direction of change was no longer clear. some meps have advocated more flexibility in european regulations, arguing that this is a way to increase employment and reduce unemployment. others, on the contrary, called for the protection of labour law to be strengthened. some meps called for greater harmonisation of national legal systems, arguing that this was required by the progressive process of creating a single european market. others, on the other hand, strongly defended the principle of subsidiarity in this area, pointing to the different traditions and models in the member states and stressing that this diversity is a value, since it allows the best solutions to be found through practical exchange of experience rather than new, usually rigid community legal regulations. the draft report i prepared, as a draft of the european parliament's position, was in favour of greater flexibility and against harmonisation. it also included proposals for legislation which welcomed the impact of so-called non-standard forms of employment in creating new jobs in the european union and called on member states, inter alia, to apply active labour market policy methods and to promote adaptability in order to protect people rather than specific, existing jobs. in the preliminary draft report, i also pointed out the need to improve eu and national regulations in order to relieve businesses and citizens of unnecessary costs and burdens of red tape. i also pointed out that too restrictive labour laws can discourage employers from hiring new workers even in times of economic growth. i also stressed the crucial role of education in improving the chances of workers and the unemployed to find new jobs. in this context, i proposed to call on the european commission, member state governments and employers to invest more in lifelong learning and to improve the quality of education for young people, especially in relation to the needs of local and regional labour markets. finally, i stressed the importance of mobility for improving the european labour market. i therefore proposed to call on the member states to lift the restrictions on access to their labour markets imposed on nationals of other eu countries. the first draft report provoked a very lively reaction from colleagues in the parliament. the heated debate and the 490 proposed amendments to the original text were the subject of further discussion and negotiation with all political groups. i would like to thank my colleagues from the party of european socialists, and in particular mr christensen and his advisers, for their contribution to these negotiations. the outcome of the negotiations was voted on at the extraordinary meeting of the committee on employment and social affairs on 18 june in strasbourg. i must admit that the outcome of this vote was not entirely satisfactory to me. i have the impression that we have lost sight of a very important message which i proposed in the original draft and which i believe has not been substantially challenged in subsequent debates, namely that all reforms of the labour market, including the reform of labour law itself, should be geared to creating new jobs in europe in order to effectively meet the challenge of the 17 million people who are still out of work. such high unemployment is a real threat to the values on which the european social model is based and we must do everything we can to reduce it radically. we have over 60 amendments to the current version of the report. almost half of them support this way of thinking about the report, which is job creation. i hope that the outcome of the vote will be satisfactory enough to allow me to recommend that the house adopt this report and that it will be an important voice in the debate which the european commission launched with the publication of its green paper last november.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission's green paper and the report under discussion are, in my view, a valuable start to a longer debate on adapting labour law to changing realities both at european and global level. and this is just the beginning, because the task is extremely complex. we must achieve hard-won outcomes such as increasing the number of jobs, maintaining their quality, guaranteeing social security for workers, preserving as many conventional employment contracts as possible, while at the same time safeguarding the interests of employers and meeting the challenges of competition on the world market. one thing seems to be paramount: whether full-time or part-time employment contracts, more non-standard forms of employment or more traditional employment contracts, every citizen of the union must have the right to a job or to substitute benefits, and certainly to guaranteed health care. my political group would be happy to support this report in tomorrow's vote.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs grabowskaya on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the europol convention of 26 july 1995. in accordance with the act of accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, those new states have the possibility of acceding, in a simplified manner, to conventions concluded by member states on the basis of article 34 of the treaty on european union. there is therefore no need to negotiate and conclude special accession protocols, which would additionally require ratification by all the community countries. it is only necessary for the council, after consulting the european parliament, to adopt a decision fixing the date of entry into force of the europol convention, together with the necessary protocols. the council should also provide for a new date for the entry into force of the three protocols, 30 november 2000, 28 november 2002 and 27 november 2003 respectively.
in writing. i voted against the report on excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. the econ committee voted for a 4,5% increase in minimum rates. as i am against any tax harmonisation or increase, no matter how small, i have had to vote against astrid lulling's report.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to be very specific - i congratulate the rapporteur, but i do not congratulate the majority in the committee on employment and social affairs which has brought us this correction to the report. the labour market is changing - new professions, new technologies and the increasing share of services are creating new forms of employment. the concern of the left for lower-paying and less secure jobs is mostly false. the problem is the spread of rigid solutions that make it difficult to create new jobs and leave a large number of people unemployed. it is also about transferring these bad experiences to those countries which have more competitive labour markets. the bureaucratic obstacles facing companies that post workers within the eu market are also just tools of modern protectionism, most often aimed at the new member states, as evidenced by the vaxholm and viking line cases, which are currently heading for the final stage before the european court of justice. if the amendments tabled by the members of the european people's party, including the rapporteur, are not taken into account, then the report cannot count on my support.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i thank mr protasiewicz for taking up such an important issue as the adaptation of labour law to modern requirements. although we know that there is no community labour code, the european union should be the inspiration for positive, competitive changes and some harmonization in this area of labour law. i would like to quote here a passage from the position of the polish independent self-governing trade union solidarność on the green paper, which states that the main basis for the performance of an employed activity should continue to be an indefinite contract, guaranteeing the maintenance of universal protection of the duration of the employment relationship. it also recognises the appropriateness of a definition of a worker which would cover all persons who work in economic dependence on a contractor, including certain persons who work under civil-law contracts. this should be accompanied by a clear definition of self-employment. i should also like to mention, at least in passing, a few important problems: teleworking, especially for young parents and for people with disabilities, and the need to eliminate the gender pay gap for equal work. the key words we are speaking about today are employment, flexibility, security. it's not about the words, though. it's about the people. on the one hand, there are those who want to provide for their families by working for wages, including the unemployed. on the other hand, there are those who are employers, both private and public, and those who feel responsible for solving our increasingly global problems.
mr. chairman, please! the demographic problems of many european union countries today are caused, among other things, by the lack of stability of young people. today, to secure a reasonably stable job, a young person must demonstrate the experience, experience and references that an employer requires. this is why many people decide to start families in middle age, which is not good for the future of large numbers of children, and europe must think and act in such a way that its christian identity and tradition survive and dominate in the years to come. i would like to congratulate my colleague on the report which highlights the important problems and at the same time pays great attention to the stability of employment in the form of indefinite contracts, which should be the norm. it is also important that europe finally lift the restrictions on access to labour markets for the new member states, especially as these restrictions are imposed by the countries that speak the most about european integration while applying far-reaching state interventionism.
mr. chairman, please! labour law is one of the most difficult documents, both in terms of legal and substantive aspects. it contains not only economic and legal elements but also moral ones. and reconciling them is extremely difficult, and sometimes impossible, but we try to reconcile them as much as possible. what should the 21st century labour law be? it should meet, inter alia, the following conditions: first, it should be flexible, allowing it to keep up with rapidly changing conditions. secondly, it should protect and enable employees to develop. third, it should protect the interests of employers and enable firms to develop while maintaining the highest possible efficiency. fourth, it should allow for the optimal use of labour resources. fifth, it should allow for dialogue between workers and employers. and most importantly, labour law must be uniform throughout the european union or applicable in all member states.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the european parliament has dealt with the problem of labour law in a comprehensive way, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr protasiewicz, for his report, which is very substantive. the tragic situation of foreign workers in many countries of the european union is also worth mentioning. slave or semi-slave labour camps are being discovered in successive states of the union. people who seek work and bread in other countries are often exploited, humiliated, and sometimes killed by ruthless criminals. this is the shame of the european union in the 21st century. the european parliament should call on the member states and their labour inspection and law enforcement authorities to pay particular attention to the situation of migrant workers and to effectively combat the criminal exploitation of these people.
mr. chairman, please! changes in labour law in the european union are not only important for the safety and security of workplaces, but also have a key impact on employment levels. there has long been a heated debate about whether global competition requires changes to the current model of labour law. i think it is. for the last 20 years, we have seen a gradual and increasingly rapid departure from the standard forms of law and the general model of work. this phenomenon is a response to the challenges of globalisation, which is a process in its own right, and whether we like it or not, it is up to us whether our societies take advantage of the opportunities that this process brings. addressing the negative aspects of globalisation requires much more flexibility in labour law while maintaining the current level of safety. it is worth noting that the current level of occupational safety and health in the european union is among the highest in the world. we do not need further protection of labour, but more flexibility and mobility and the liberalisation of labour markets in all the countries of the european union. regardless of the regulation, flexibility is coming into our lives. today, 40% of all employment forms are customized. moreover, they account for 60% of new jobs, and finally, and this is the most optimistic, two thirds of non-standard forms of employment are moving to the so-called classic form - indefinite contracts. traditional labour law structures do not pass the test in today's realities. in modern service-based economies or in small and medium-sized enterprises, a more flexible and customized approach can be the key to success. of course, flexibility without employee mobility is not enough. i therefore call for the full opening up of the labour markets in the european union to workers from all member states. we now know that the benefits of labour market liberalisation are not limited to migrant workers, but are also very clearly felt by countries that have decided to open up their labour markets. there is no well-developed and competitive economy without well-functioning businesses that can compete in the global marketplace, managed efficiently by good managers, good owners. but there are no companies that do well, even the best-run ones, that don't have very good employees. so these are connected vessels.
member of the commission. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, it was no surprise that the debate on labour law was so wide-ranging, so deep and often so temperamental. this is self-evident, because the issue of labour law is one of the most sensitive and is, in fact, at the heart of our european social model. i am very pleased that the green paper has been the basis for this discussion, which has been extremely wide-ranging. more than 450 individual opinions were received, far exceeding the usual level of public debate through the green paper. it is also clear that the green paper does not propose a solution to labour law, but rather a set of questions. these issues will be evaluated by the commission and the commission will issue the relevant documents in the following period. i think the parliamentary debate shows that there are good prospects for consensus on some of the key elements and let me comment on some of the ones that i consider very important. the first is the need for meaningful social dialogue. despite the fact that the level of social dialogue in some member states is low, i believe that social dialogue is an essential element, and that is why, among other things, we support social dialogue directly within the european social fund, in particular by building the administrative capacity of the social partners. the second point to be stressed is that labour law does not exist in a vacuum and any debate on it will always be sensitive and will always require the social partners. furthermore, i believe that in the further development of labour law, any measures which lead to a fragmentation of the labour market or to an increase in job insecurity, or to any restriction of workers' fundamental rights, should be avoided. there appears to be a need to address the situation of workers who, although formally self-employed, are still economically dependent on a single main customer or employer as the source of their income. highly effective labour law enforcement is also needed, in particular to preserve and promote quality jobs and to combat undeclared work. ladies and gentlemen, there were some issues raised in the debate that were not in the mainstream and that are unlikely to be answered in the vote, so let me touch on them. i want to emphasize that social protection is not a consequence but a condition for full employment. if you compare labour markets that are very weak in terms of labour protection, such as in developing countries, none of these labour markets are sufficiently efficient in terms of job creation. i would also like to stress that there is already a directive on posting of workers, some of whose interpretations will be discussed a little later. for this reason, a certain standard already exists, although it is certainly possible to think about further developments. the question of agency employment was also raised. i can say that the portuguese presidency has more or less included this issue in its agenda and that we will be making progress during this presidency, which i believe is very necessary, because i think that the description of the development of the agency market which the honourable member has outlined has expressed the situation very accurately and the dynamics of this market are obvious, as are some phenomena which can be regarded as certain indications of possible social dumping. ladies and gentlemen, the labour market is changing dramatically and it is very important that we look within the european union, but above all at the level of the individual member states with their labour legislation, for general responses that are capable of supporting our overall capacity, overall efficiency, competitiveness and civic strength on the one hand and ensuring adequate safety for workers in the 21st century on the other. this is not an easy task, but the debate has convinced me that your report has a chance of being adopted, and i look forward to the final result.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mr protasiewicz on a very factual and difficult report. it is of the utmost importance that a public debate on the directions for modernising labour law is undertaken, in view of the challenges posed by globalisation, persistent structural unemployment and demographic trends that are detrimental to the european union. the reality of the situation and the points in the report show that the union today needs a common policy to combat unemployment, along the lines of the common energy policy. the need for a common policy is all the greater because the richest countries in the union, such as germany and france, are unable to cope with it, with unemployment rates that could soon reach 10%. i have reservations about the proposal to adopt common regulations at union level to create the basis for the system of minimum social standards proposed in point s. i believe that the differences between member states today are so great that the proposed approach is simply impossible. the minimum amounts should be regulated by the member states themselves, depending on their level of economic development, the labour market situation and tradition. there is ample evidence that 'atypical' contract work has led to an increase in employment. the dilemma is not, therefore, on what basis one is employed but on whether one is working or not. this should be a priority for the member states and the union in the coming years, with particular attention to young people, those entering the labour market, women and the elderly.
in writing. i warmly congratulate the rapporteur on a report which accurately analyses the changes that need to be made to labour law in order to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i believe that the current labour law in individual countries is still anachronistic and not adapted to the requirements of globalisation. in the modern world, we need a law that is flexible and clear. workers should have the opportunity to benefit from continuing education and training adapting them to the needs of the labour market. the main problem in the labour market is the administrative burden on entrepreneurs. they're holding back the growth of companies. removing barriers in the sme sector means improving their competitiveness and, therefore, increasing employment. modernisation of labour law should be based on active support for the labour market. to promote the taking up and changing of jobs and the training of the labour market. this is not to be confused with overprotective labour policies, which lead to the artificial maintenance of jobs which are unnecessary on the market and which weaken the position of the firm on the market. the consequence of keeping unnecessary jobs is primarily the cost of personnel, i.e. the hindrance of the development of the employee by the lack of opportunities for retraining and further training, while on the other hand, keeping unnecessary jobs usually leads to the slow weakening of the company and its elimination from the market. it is therefore important to promote work actively, rather than to protect it at all costs.
member of the commission. i would like to say that i am for the first time hopeful that there might be positive movement. but for the moment we are not yet there, as i said. we do not want to have a plan b because we really want to work for what we have been trying to do: help the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian medic find their freedom again. the next days will be crucial. we will be very attentive and we have offered the libyan authorities the opportunity of really having a mid-term plan for working towards a benghazi centre that will not only be a centre for the town, but will also be a regional centre and a centre for hiv/aids treatment for that part of sub-saharan africa. so let us hope and let us work together in order to find a good solution.
member of the commission. i would like to say again that the libyan authorities see more and more that they too would like to have good relations with the european union. i think they have understood how important it is to get out of isolation and, and that this case is still an obstacle. tomorrow the supreme court will most probably come forward with its verdict, but we also know – and i think it is important to emphasise this – that this will not be the end of the road. there will still be the political decision of the high judicial council. if there is no solution, we will certainly come back and we will have to see what has to be done. but as i said before, i have a cautious optimism this time. let us hope, let us not only cross our fingers but work together as much as we can. and this is what we will do right up to the last minute. i can assure you of that.
i'm not going to let you down. i would ask that we avoid a situation in which the european union, like the united states, pays a bribe, such as the one once demanded by colonel gaddafi in exchange for the release of nurses and a doctor, when money was demanded, a high rate for the release of victims. we shouldn't let that happen.
mr. chairman, please! mr cramer's report on the implementation of the first railway package points to the difficulties and problems of its implementation. the development and efficient operation of rail transport can lead to a greater share of freight and passenger transport being taken over, thus relieving road transport, thereby reducing carbon emissions. the rapid passenger transport can also be competitive with local airlines and coach transport. linking rail, road and water transport can reduce their costs and increase the efficiency of the economy. in implementing this package, particular attention shall be paid to: supporting railway projects, especially in countries lacking the means to complete and modernise networks and equipment; supporting all activities, including the exchange of good practices, to create flexible and competitive working arrangements for railway undertakings; monitoring and removing organisational, administrative and financial barriers to transport development; supporting the take-over of part of international road transport by rail. thank you, mr. cramer, for your necessary and insightful report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i thank mr degutis for his report. it is important to agree with commissioner barrot that the third aviation package, which is now 15 years old, has made a very important contribution to the development of european civil aviation. today is a day for change. in particular, this concerns: leasing, obtaining a concession for air transport services, crew welfare, protection of passengers against the bankruptcy of the carrier, and so on. the eight so-called freedom of navigation are also at stake. the most exciting issue is the transparency of airline ticket prices. a passenger wants the truth about how much he's actually going to pay for a flight, not a cloaked advertisement. i am convinced that the regulation we are adopting, together with the directive on the prohibition of unfair competition, which will come into force in five months' time, will make a clear contribution to strengthening passenger rights. the passenger must be the subject of both the carrier and the airport. unfortunately, too often today, it is treated as a commodity.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. european transport faces major challenges: the single market and good connections and capacity at borders, metropolitan services, safety and quality of services, working conditions for hauliers. this requires, above all, good and systematic european and national regulation. it also requires good organization and logistics, a lot of infrastructure, but most of all, transportation requires energy. there's no transportation at all without power supplies. energy consumption in transport means emissions of harmful substances. we need to reduce these emissions for environmental reasons by using the right technologies. fuel costs are also high, and we need to reduce fuel consumption in new technology propulsion engines. so new emission-reducing and energy-saving technologies are costly, and we need to refine them to make them cheaper. because cheaper transportation technology means cheaper transportation, and cheaper transportation means a competitive economy. so again, the fundamental problem is new technologies. i would like to call for a substantial increase in expenditure on transport research and technology in the context of the mid-term review of the eu budget. we must be innovative in transport in terms of technology, or we will lose the race for competitive transport, for a competitive economy and for the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! today, once again, we are here to discuss trade relations with china, which has become a major economic and political power in the world over the past decade. last october, the european commission approved a programme for eu-china relations, which increased mutual commitments. in this context, it seems appropriate to support changes towards greater openness and pluralism in china, as well as cooperation on energy and climate change. because we know that china is one of the world's largest producers of greenhouse gases. on the other hand, we cannot forget the alarm that was raised after the discovery in spain of thousands of tubes of counterfeit toothpaste, produced in china and elsewhere, containing toxic diethylene glycol in doses far exceeding the eu standards. china is cheaper in european stores, more competition - but is it always healthy? i am very much in favour of exploiting the opportunities presented by the dynamic development of relations with china, especially after my visit to that country, during which i had the opportunity to see this power, which is developing at a tremendous pace, up close. the commission says that a strong chinese economy is in europe's economic interest, and it is. but we must not forget that the interests of the community countries must always be our primary concern and that this is the way to evaluate the opportunities and the dangers of cooperation with this asian tiger.
mr. chairman, please! the priorities of the portuguese presidency, which is beginning, as presented by the president of the council, can be welcomed with great optimism. the strengthening of transatlantic relations is particularly important, not only in the area of combating international terrorism but also in the area of economic relations and scientific research. equally valuable are the declarations by the presidency on helping to stabilise the western balkans and on developing a development strategy for the continent with its african partners. we would also welcome the outline of the prospect of ukraine's membership of the union at the eu-ukraine summit. unfortunately, the portuguese presidency has inherited the so-called new constitutional treaty from the previous case. it is to be hoped that this troubling legacy will not blind the presidency to the ambitious goals it has set itself, which are indeed important for the future of europe and the world.
mr president, mr president of the european council, i listened carefully to your speech today, i read with great attention your speech to the assembly of the republic in lisbon. i understand that you have drawn up a broad programme for the portuguese presidency and i wish you success in implementing it. let me read your programme for myself and point out three points of fundamental importance. the first is, of course, the new european treaty. the german presidency has succeeded in building a difficult compromise. each member state may feel that it has lost something in the negotiation process - that is the nature of compromise. but europe has a chance to strengthen its unity. the mandate unanimously adopted must be implemented and no country, including my own, may withdraw from its commitments. the portuguese presidency now has the difficult task of creating the necessary consensus for the treaty to be adopted. i would also like to call, as did barón crespo, for an effort to give it a form that is as readable as possible for european citizens. the second is the building of a european solidarity policy. i believe that this is the common energy security policy, which will be a testimony to the fact that the unification of europe after the historic year of 1989 is profound and irreversible. i also regard the historic task of achieving the free movement of persons within the european union, and thus the full opening-up of the schengen area to the new member states, as a policy of solidarity. only a europe without internal borders can be a community of solidarity. the third and final challenge is to fulfil europe's commitments to the world. portugal points to the importance of brazil, which has a long tradition of european integration and great development potential. but the presidency's programme also provides for a renewal of dialogue with africa. this is a task of enormous importance, stemming from europe's historic responsibility towards this continent of untapped natural resources, now exposed to poverty, disease and the drama of ethnic hatred. these are the challenges of our time, which can and should electrify the process of european integration.
mr. chairman, please! each presidency of the european union brings new challenges, new objectives, new opportunities, but also new potential mistakes and failures. i have read with great attention the recent press statements by the portuguese prime minister concerning the eastern european union policy and i am deeply concerned by what i have read. you said, and i quote, "when you talk to russia, you can't just talk about what's different between us, you have to talk about what's common between us". these are startling words that can be read as a harbinger of a change in the tone of eastern politics to a more accommodating and even, i'm not afraid to use that word, capitulatory. the european union should continue the course of solidarity and unity that the german presidency has chosen. only solidarity will make it possible to act effectively in relations with russia. the lack of consequences can only be seen as a weakness by our eastern partner. there are many issues to be resolved: the unfinished dispute over polish food exports to russia, and the need to pursue a policy of energy solidarity to prevent moscow from dictating to individual eu countries.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have the impression that, at least in the case of the treaty, this parliament does not know or like the word compromise. the criticism of the mandates in the report is, in my view, deeply unfair. my country, poland, has shown great flexibility and willingness to compromise in this area, and i am therefore alarmed to read the hard-headed report which does not want to see the mandate as a clear success. the new names, the european symbols in the treaty, would only lead to confusion, suggesting that the union is entering a dual state phase, contrary to the report. the flexibility of the mandate in terms of opt-outs is an expression of wisdom, of realism, not a weakness. this also applies to the charter of fundamental rights. one thing we can all agree on is that there are a lot of things, including the voting system, that need to be re-thought over the next 10 years. the intergovernmental conference is also faced with the task of taking balanced, detailed decisions on this matter. without them, we risk a deadlock in the ratification process.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the new treaty is a decoy for the implementation of the former constitutional treaty. the report stresses that the mandate safeguards the substance of the constitutional treaty. two nations said ‘no’. it is therefore little more than a sloppy attempt at federalising the union at any price. it also suggests that parliament reaffirm its intention to maintain an open dialogue. this parliament has become so arrogant that if it were not so pathetic it would be funny. to say that we maintain an open dialogue with anyone is a mere joke. support for the constitutional treaty has not increased. scholars and politicians declare it a complete failure. any new treaty ought to consider the following aspects. firstly, the final product will have to be ratified in all member states pursuant to the constitutional provisions, and referendums should be repeated. the attempt to solve the issues of integration over the heads of civil society is unacceptable. secondly, the constitutional treaty embodied a compromise between the member states and the political systems. the revised treaty will not go further than the arrangements contained in that treaty. it will become a dwarfed constitutional treaty. thirdly, the attempt to make another treaty causes a significant delay at this stage of the political reform of the eu. reform is possible, yet for some reason, it is not pursued. the changes within the first pillar are feasible in the areas provided for by the tec. the implemented reforms within this procedure may include the intergovernmental area, basically the second and third pillars. there is a possibility to regulate many issues based on international agreements concluded by the member states. as far as the third pillar is concerned, the strengthening of the structures of judicial and police cooperation can also be achieved. it is possible to secure the eu’s democratic legitimisation through the holding of public council meetings, the strengthening of the national parliaments, consultative position and giving this parliament the power to designate the president of the commission. the rush for a new treaty makes no sense at all. a new document may not be implemented through some back channel. this is against the will of the people. demands for a legal personality, the single currency or the rotating system in the commission are extreme, although over the last two years no european nation has expressed such a will.
mr. chairman, please! today is a dark day for the european union, a dark day for democracy. here the political elites of the union, including the members of this house, the european commission and the governments of the member states, are trying to deceive their own electorates, their own people. we are to support the european constitution, which the voters have already said "no" to. the slogan for today is angela merkel's words: use different terminology without changing the legal substance, for example on the name of the treaty, the names of the union's legal acts or the union's foreign minister. it just did. we're discussing the document under a different name, with different wording, but with the same substance. it's a supposedly inferior document, just to keep it from being put to a referendum, so it's about deceiving your own electorate, deceiving your own nation. a truly dark day of shame and disgrace.
mr. chairman, please! the report we are discussing is a good, balanced report. i'm voting for him with all my heart. the report sends a clear message to member state governments, national parliaments and the citizens of the european union: the union will be reformed, and the reform is on the right track. the report is also an attempt to restore the european public's confidence in the union itself and its institutions. and it is in this context, in the context of trust, that the voices of some member states who have reservations about the binding force of the charter of fundamental rights have been very disturbing. i wonder how these governments will explain to their citizens that they do not want to allow them to enjoy the basic benefits of european democracy and do not want to give them the rights that their eu neighbours will enjoy. is resistance to the charter of fundamental rights to lead to a new division in europe into better and worse citizens? the better ones because they enjoy the full rights of the charter, and the worse ones who do not. at the beginning of the 21st century, should we accept such divisions? i say absolutely no, especially if we want to have, as the portuguese presidency proposes, a stronger europe in a stronger world. (laughter)
mr. chairman, please! this is not a reform treaty. what we're dealing with here is a clustering treaty. a treaty designed to hide the truth. on every occasion, the european union and the elected representatives in this house speak of integrity, of the values on which the union is founded. is there anything in the modern world, in the history of mankind, that is more valuable than the truth? there is no one. this treaty is a denial of the truth, because under the banner of the amended treaty, it tries to enforce in a mega-deceptive way a constitutional treaty that has been rejected by societies. this road leads nowhere. mr president, you have shown once again in this house that you can take away the voice of those who disagree with the treaty and extend the time of your colleagues by almost a minute. that's your honesty. (laughter)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would just like to make it clear to my fellow members that the 11th and 12th amendments are not about introducing new texts, but about moving existing paragraphs from their original place. since one of the groups asked for a roll call vote, i would like to make it clear that voting against does not change the fact that this text will be in the report, only in a different, less appropriate place. that's why i would encourage you to vote for amendment no. 12.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. one more explanation. now, when we vote on paragraphs 3 and 4 separately, it doesn't mean that we're excluding amendments to the texts that were submitted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the same text will be inserted as amendments 20 and 21 elsewhere in the text. so it's just a rearrangement of paragraphs, not a deletion of paragraphs from the report.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr cocilovo is right. the vote against the deletion of the third and fourth paragraphs means that we shall repeat the same text when we vote on the twentieth and twenty-first amendments. i would therefore ask the house to vote against it now and then vote in favour of amendments nos 20 and 21, which means that the text will not be changed, but that its position in the report will be different, much more appropriate.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to explain that the vote on paragraph 3, which we did not remove, and on amendment no 20, which we adopted, has resulted in two paragraphs in the report with the same content. i wanted to call for a vote against the 20th amendment because we left the same text in the previous place.
in writing. contrary to the report, the new european names and symbols in the treaty would only create confusion and suggest that the union is entering a dual state phase. the flexibility of the mandate to opt out of certain policies is a sign of wisdom, not weakness. this also applies to the charter of fundamental rights. the nervous reaction to the charter only confirms suspicions that its supporters see it as a back door to judicial extension of the union's competences. the criticism of the mandate in the leinen report goes too far and makes it difficult to reach a compromise on reform. that is why i voted against this report.
mr. chairman, please! as a polish mep, i support all free market solutions and the freedom to provide services. however, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the rapid liberalization of the postal sector that is being pushed for today may do more harm than good, leading in the long run to the liquidation of national postal companies such as poczta polska in favour of european giants such as dhl or deutsche post. that is why i voted against mr ferber's report. consumers have the right to free competition, but the opening of the postal market cannot happen too quickly, at the expense of weaker companies, not necessarily already prepared for radical competition, and at the expense of thousands of jobs in poland and other eu countries.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted mr ferber's report on the full implementation of the internal market for community postal services. i believe that every citizen of the european union should be able to choose which service he or she wants to use to send a letter, postcard or parcel. the opening-up of the market will benefit consumers and users of postal services, but for the postal sector, especially in the new member states, it will mean further restructuring, cost reduction, innovation, introduction of new services, including electronic ones, all in order to be competitive and to survive in the postal market. hopefully, the opening up of the postal market will lead to a higher level of service and more customer care. more postal operators in the market means more competition, lower prices and a wider choice of services.
in writing. i regret that i was unable to support mr ferber's report. sometimes, after the work of the parliament's committee on the substance of a proposal, something comes out of a good proposal from the european commission that is difficult to accept. that's the case. first, the amendments voted on in the committee on transport are not really a compromise. this is a decisive victory for those who defend against changes in state monopolies. it is almost certain that the years they are given will not be used to carry out the necessary reforms, and in a few years, protesters will appear again in front of the parliament. secondly, i am outraged that the arguments of the representatives of the so-called old member states have consistently referred to the fact that the new member states are not prepared to liberalize. these defenders of the polish, hungarian and czech postal services were in fact defending the interests of french, belgian and luxembourg monopolies. it wasn't a fair game. and finally, the dates. this is the 31st of december of the previous year instead of the 1st of january of the following year. it was a marketing ploy, because it's easier to sell something when it costs 9.99 instead of 10. is this marketing manipulation the policy to regain public trust? thank you for your attention.
in writing. the bureaucratic obstacles faced by companies that post workers within the eu market are merely tools of modern protectionism, most often aimed at the new member states, as demonstrated by the vaxholm and viking line cases. the resolution deliberately reinforces this tendency, which is contrary to the principles of the common market, competition and equal rights. that's why i voted against the position.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by ieke van den burg on the white paper on financial services policy 2005-2010. the rapporteur draws attention to issues important for the proper provision of financial services in the european capital market. notes the low level of integration of retail financial markets, the need to focus on the cross-border requirements of mobile users, the development of pilot projects for pan-european financial products such as pensions, mortgages or specific insurance products. as the rapporteurs rightly emphasise, it is important to increase access to basic services for every citizen. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, the countries of eastern europe and the countries of the former soviet union. the report devoted a great deal of attention to the regulatory and supervisory structure, stressing that the oversight of some new, complex products and their interactions, as well as the macro-level effects, may not be sufficient at present.
in writing. the report, following amendments by the employment committee, which were not rejected by the ep, aims to promote overly rigid labour laws that make it difficult to create new jobs and leave a large number of people unemployed. it is also about transferring these bad experiences to those countries which have more competitive labour markets. that is why i could not support him in the plenary vote.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am pleased to present the second report to date of the european parliament in response to the european commission's annual report on the functioning of the eurozone. the commission report presents the economic situation in the euro area in 2007. the evaluations in the report are satisfactory. the euro area's economic growth accelerated to 2.7%, the best since 2000, and unemployment fell to 7.6%, the lowest in 15 years. at the same time, the euro area is increasingly becoming a stabilising factor in the world economy. this generally optimistic picture should not, however, obscure certain negative aspects. we're looking at them in our report. first, the pace of fiscal adjustment is too slow, especially in countries with still large budget deficits. the stability and growth pact requires member states to maintain at least a balanced budget in the medium term. this requires a budget surplus in good times in order to have a financial reserve in times of recession. in this context, we are critical of the behaviour of some member states which do not take advantage of the current period of high growth to make the necessary cuts in public spending. secondly, parliament points out that the good average performance for the euro area as a whole is hidden by significant differences in the economic situation in the individual member states. the decline in the international competitiveness of some countries' economies is particularly worrying, most often due to rapid wage growth outpacing labour productivity growth. thirdly, we call for the continuation of the necessary structural reforms in line with the guidelines contained in the renewed lisbon strategy. the removal of remaining barriers in the markets for goods and services should be accelerated and the further integration of labour and financial markets, which are an important element of the smooth functioning of the euro area, should be promoted. we pay particular attention to the rapid implementation of the services directive, which will help to accelerate labour productivity growth and reduce inflation in the services sector. this is very important because services account for 70% of the euro area's gross domestic product. fourthly, parliament stressed the importance of further enlargement of the euro area in order to strengthen economic and monetary union and the single currency. we welcome the decision to admit cyprus and malta to the euro area and hope that more countries will join them in the near future. we note that the process of assessing the degree of preparation of the candidate countries for the euro area should be transparent and based on uniform criteria, the economic and political relevance of which should not be called into question. in this context, we call on the commission and the council to launch a serious debate on the criteria for nominal convergence. finally, i would like to stress the importance of good governance and enhanced policy coordination in the euro area. this is essential if we are to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single currency. i welcome the decision of the eurogroup in april this year to adopt guidelines for the fiscal policies of the member states. we expect the implementation of this decision to be closely monitored. i would like to take this opportunity to assure prime minister juncker that he has the full support of parliament on this matter. i would also like to congratulate commissioner almunia on the preparation of the commission's second report on the economic situation in the euro area and to wish him that the reports he will be preparing in the coming years will be as good news as this last report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i want to draw attention to two points in this debate. first, it is gratifying to note that 2006 was an extremely favourable year for the euro area countries. gdp grew by as much as 2.7% compared to 1.4% in 2005, unemployment was 7.6% and was the lowest in fifteen years. this was achieved with inflation unchanged from 2005 at 2,2% and a reduced fiscal deficit. but it is puzzling that these rates are still worse than the rates of economic growth, unemployment, inflation and budget deficits in the three non-euro countries, namely the united kingdom, sweden and denmark. they're also worse than the annual performance of the u.s. economy. secondly, both reports are full of numbers that we focus our attention on, but it turns out that for some people, numbers are not the most important thing. the newly elected french president, in an interview, said bluntly that growth and full employment were matters of such importance that heads of state had to deal with them directly, and that the euro's excessively strong position, caused by the european central bank's successive interest rate hikes, was hurting european exports. moreover, the french president not only makes this diagnosis, but by reducing the tax burden, he wants to increase the budget deficit, in order to accelerate economic growth and reduce unemployment in the future. i'm almost finished, mr president, and i haven't heard any criticism or criticism from the president of the european... (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
madam president! the positive macroeconomic performance of the euro area countries confirms the strong impact of economic and monetary integration on the performance of the euro area. this was the purpose of the introduction of the single currency in the countries of the union. a greater degree of integration across different areas allows for leverage for development and progress. meanwhile, the problems of the european constitution, voting, the strength of individual member states, are delaying further integration. unfortunately, the two-speed europe that prime minister prodi predicted is becoming a reality. this is also reflected in the introduction of the euro in the member states. it is not a great success to introduce a single currency in one or even two countries in three years. it is essential to strengthen and accelerate these actions, as they will allow for our faster development and further integration. let's use this. i would like to conclude by congratulating both rapporteurs.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the opportunity to speak here about pakistan, which is undoubtedly a very important country and which perhaps does not always receive the attention it deserves. i know that some of you have a very special interest in relations with pakistan, and i am pleased to be able to explain the council's position on this country and to hear your views. the situation in pakistan is evolving rapidly in the run-up to the elections and we look forward to maintaining good cooperation with the european parliament over the coming months. the european union has a long history of relations with pakistan, dating back to 1976 when our first cooperation agreement was established. unfortunately, in recent years and for various reasons, our relations have not been as close as either party would have wished. it was for this reason that in 2005 the european union began a review of its policy towards pakistan, as the challenges posed by certain issues with pakistan were recognised in the council. but it was also firmly agreed that the only effective policy was to resolutely maintain regular contacts with the pakistani government. the result of this decision was the joint declaration between the european union and pakistan, which was adopted in berlin on 8 february. this formalised our political dialogue and paved the way for the full implementation of the 2004 cooperation agreement, also known as the third generation agreement. the european union's relations with pakistan have thus been building on a new foundation since the beginning of the year. we hope that this will contribute to a better understanding between the two sides. this is a step in a process which is a long-term process towards the establishment of a fruitful cooperation we wish. it is also a recognition of the importance which the eu attaches to pakistan as a partner country. at the same time, although we have defined our long-term course, there are some issues that we will have to address in the short term. we know that parliament has certain concerns about recent events and we can share some of those concerns. the fighting around the red mosque in islamabad has captured our full attention over the past week. i do not want to get into a discussion about what has caused the current situation. i would, on the contrary, welcome the government's decision to take action against those who preach intolerance. naturally, we would all like to see a peaceful end to the impasse, but it is important that the government takes a stand against radical extremism. a distinction must be drawn between those who preach violence and those who demonstrate peacefully. the council expressed grave concern at the violence which broke out in karachi in may. it is imperative that everything be done to prevent a repetition of events. the council is following the situation in pakistan very closely through constant contacts with the european union embassies in islamabad. we expect all parties to show restraint and we expect in particular that law enforcement authorities use proportionately minimal force when dealing with civilians. the council is also following very closely the case of justice iftikhar chaudhry of the supreme court. it is important that the legal action against chaudhry be conducted in accordance with the rules of due process, without undue interference. the media must also be free to carry out their reporting tasks without intimidation. the european union is generally willing to see pakistan continue to pursue the path of enlightened moderation, in compliance with international standards on democratic principles and the rule of law. this is the understanding on which our relations are based. as stated in article 1 of the 2004 cooperation agreement, respect for human rights and democratic principles is an essential element of this agreement. we intend to work on this base. pakistan faces a choice in 2007 when general elections are held. the european union fully supports all steps towards sustainable democracy in pakistan and the strengthening of democratic institutions and good governance in the country. the european union therefore considers it important that the forthcoming legislative elections in pakistan be free and fair. we also consider it very important that the next president of pakistan be elected in accordance with the law. the essential aspect is that the government should have the strength that derives from democratic legitimacy. this will be necessary if it is to meet the many challenges of pakistan.
member of the commission. mr president, we have all witnessed, as the council president has just mentioned, the events around the red mosque in islamabad and the latest reports say that most of the compound has now been cleared and that the operation has entered its final stage. i sincerely hope that no more lives will be lost. it has come as a shock to me to see these scenes take place in the very heart of the pakistani capital with hundreds of men and women involved. it is very regrettable that those who continue to resist did not, as mr lobo antunes said, accept the peaceful solution. i very much appreciate the patience shown by the government in trying to reach a negotiated solution in order to avoid bloodshed, especially as children have been forced to stay behind in the mosque against their own will and that of their parents. what this episode has clearly demonstrated to the people of pakistan and to the wider world is what dangers religious fundamentalism and intolerance can pose for us and for what is essentially a moderate and peaceful society. over the last couple of months the students and clerics of the red mosque have in effect tried to take the law into their own hands. i firmly believe this is not the direction in which the people of pakistan would like their country to move. the government is right to address this phenomenon in a decisive manner. other events, including several recent bombings in north-west frontier province and last friday’s alleged attack against president musharraf's plane, clearly show that pakistan needs to remain vigilant and determined to ensure that terrorism and extremism will not succeed. eu policy is to stay constructively engaged with pakistan. key objectives of our engagement are to promote regional and internal stability, to encourage democratisation and to support pakistan in consolidating its position as a moderate muslim state. i am pleased to inform parliament that, on 24 may, we held the first joint commission under the third generation cooperation agreement in islamabad. the meeting was a useful opportunity to open new ways for cooperation with pakistan, for instance, by setting up a sub-group on governance and human rights as a forum for a more intense dialogue in this area. we have also significantly increased the volume of our cooperation with pakistan to eur 200 million over the next four years, notably in the areas of rural development and education. in so doing, our aim is to contribute towards a more prosperous and stable pakistan. pakistan’s political environment is currently characterised by uncertainty. the country is rife with speculation on possible electoral scenarios. one such scenario is based on president musharraf's announced plan to get himself re-elected by the sitting assemblies in advance of the parliamentary elections. another is a possible arrangement between the president and the opposition parties which could result in early parliamentary elections and musharraf’s possible re-election by the new assemblies. as pakistan approaches crucial parliamentary elections later this year, i believe it is necessary to continue to place emphasis on the importance of strengthening democratic institutions and building a more inclusive political process. as you are aware, pakistan is a priority country for a possible eu election observation mission. i will carefully assess the findings of the exploratory mission sent last month and will then take a decision on whether to deploy a mission in due course. i think there are serious concerns about the way the electoral rolls have been prepared. several million voters appear to be missing from the list and serious action should be taken urgently to rectify this. in conclusion, we need to assess carefully whether it would be advisable to deploy an election observation mission in a context in which there are some serious concerns, which i highlighted, about the conditions for democratic elections, and we need to keep developments under review in the coming weeks and months.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 12 july 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the future agreement on kosovo.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking today about the territorial integrity of serbia and the future of the kosovo region, where fundamental human rights are violated every day. the serbian people are facing a humanitarian disaster, and europe's common christian heritage is being systematically destroyed by islamic terrorists. i am surprised that the events and the current situation in kosovo are very often presented to the international public in a one-sided way, harmful to the serbs. the unprecedented plan to grant independence to kosovo means violating the territorial integrity of serbia and further escalating the conflict. the decision to separate kosovo from serbia threatens stability on the entire european continent, creating a domino effect in many other ethnically disputed places on our continent. it is offensive to me that the european union authorities want to be a party to this balkan conflict without having the right or the mandate to do so. it is clear that the future of europe and the world should be decided by sovereign states and peoples in international institutions such as the un. and so i thank russia and those countries that are opposed to the shifting of borders in europe in the un security council. thank you, sir.
acting president of the council. mr president, will you allow me to greet commissioner olli rehn now, since i did not have the opportunity to do so in my first speech and i wish to do so now. four or five very quick observations. the first is to reaffirm what i said in my first speech: that the mere maintenance of the status quo in kosovo is not sustainable. we have to move forward and make progress with respect to this status quo. if we imagine that it is possible to maintain the status quo we are convinced that this belief is wrong and that we would pay a high price for it. the second point, as has been made here by several members, is that it is essential that the eu maintains a united position, that is, that the member states remain united on the kosovo issue. we have made this appeal several times as a member state and we have naturally reinforced it now as the presidency. what we would not like to see again is the european union, as it has been in the past, divided by a fundamental issue which is taking place, moreover, on european soil. that is why we have always called for the european union and its member states to stand together in a solution to overcome the impasse in kosovo. the third point is that we believe that we must continue all diplomatic efforts in the united nations security council to obtain a new resolution in the security council on kosovo. this resolution, as i have already said, is a basis for the international and european union presence in kosovo. we must redouble our efforts and interventions and the presidency, in the context of its responsibilities, will not fail to actively seek agreement on this new resolution in the security council. finally, it is very clear to us that we must offer a genuine european perspective to the countries of the western balkans and, in particular, to serbia, since this country fulfils all the criteria and conditions laid down for this european perspective. we have noted with satisfaction the decision to resume negotiations with serbia with a view to a stabilisation and association agreement with the european union. we think this is a crucial step. ensuring that european perspective for serbia is fundamental, because it has a fundamental element of stability for the balkan region itself.
member of the commission. i shall start with serbia. serbia has a tangible european perspective, with the ultimate goal of eu membership once it meets all the conditions of eu accession. that is our point of departure in our relations with serbia. after the new democratic government – which is europe- and reform-oriented – was formed, and after this new government made a clear commitment to cooperation with the icty and carried out such effective and practical action to match that commitment, we were able to resume the saa talks with serbia about a month ago. it is worth recalling that the stabilisation and association agreement, apart from being a significant agreement, especially in economic and trade relations, is also the gateway, the waystation towards candidate status in the european union. i have repeated this numerous times in the serbian public debate, i shall continue to do so and i will show that serbia has a european future, as long as that country is willing to meet the conditions that this future requires. we cannot expect that there will be any trading over concessions on kosovo because of the european track for serbia, but we can expect that the political debate in serbia could finally move from the nationalist past towards a european future. what we can expect is that, if there are further talks for a limited period of time, then serbia should take a constructive attitude and a realistic approach in these talks, instead of repeating the same set phrases that we have been hearing over the past couple of years. my second point is that international supervision covering both political and security issues will be necessary for some time in kosovo. its purpose must be clear: to supervise the implementation of a status settlement that ensures the rights of all communities and the sustainable development of kosovo. for that we need a resolution from the united nations security council. it is difficult, frankly, to operate under conditions of political uncertainty while the process in the united nations security council is still going on. we have every right to expect that all permanent members of the un security council realise their responsibility in the future security and stability of europe. we have every right to expect that all the members in the security council realise the great responsibility they have. in the commission we are working hard to ensure that the eu will be ready to deploy civilian missions to supervise the implementation of the status settlement. it will be a different mission from that of unmik, and we need a sound legal basis in the form of a un security council resolution to ensure the success of this mission. finally, all in all, kosovo and the status process of kosovo show how much we need the better steering and coordination mechanisms that the reform treaty should finally provide. it is indeed high time to create more effective and efficient instruments for establishing the eu’s common foreign and security policy.
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr erik meijer, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in 2006 (2006/2289 (ini)) (a6-0214/2007).
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mr eric maijer on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia welcomes the progress that the country has made since it declared its wish to join the european union. the socialist group in the european parliament agrees with the report. i would like to highlight the progress made in macedonia in meeting the copenhagen political criteria and in implementing the recommendations of the 2005 european partnership, the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement. of particular importance is the proper implementation by the macedonian authorities of the ohrid agreement, an agreement reached in close cooperation with the european union, which guarantees civil and political rights to all citizens regardless of their ethnic origin. the ohrid agreement reformed macedonia in full respect of its multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious character. in this context, the responsible foreign policy of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and its efforts to promote international peace and security should be emphasised. in conclusion, i would like to highlight the good cooperation between the authorities of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the european parliament, and in particular the ministry of foreign affairs of that country. the peaceful and equal coexistence of the macedonian society, and the letter and spirit of the ohrid agreement, will be fundamental to the country's aspirations to join the european union. i would like to emphasise once again the political conclusion of this report: the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is undertaking reforms which should lead to its future membership of the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. macedonia is undoubtedly a country whose place is in a united europe and i firmly believe that it will soon join the european union as a full member of the community. but until then, the country still faces many challenges. greater attention to environmental protection and further economic and administrative reforms are needed. however, the most important issue will be to build trust and ensure effective equality between all ethnic groups. the conclusion of the framework agreement on safeguards is a very important step in this direction. mep meijers report also lists areas where macedonia has made significant progress in implementing many provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement and in seeking to meet the copenhagen criteria. every effort should be made to support the macedonian authorities in this process and to bring about the start of genuine accession negotiations as soon as possible. macedonian brothers, we are waiting for you.
madam president! in 2005, the republic of macedonia was granted the status of a candidate country for membership of the european union. the accession of macedonia to our structures must be preceded by an internal agreement governing the coexistence of the various ethnic groups in this country, based on democracy and equality. this criterion must be met before macedonia becomes an integral part of the union. the country should establish a coherent system of public administration and education that takes into account linguistic and ethnic differences in such a way that ethnic groups and different national minorities can coexist harmoniously. there must also be a swift agreement with greece, especially on the name of the country. greece should, however, be more flexible in this respect, as the name issue cannot in any case be used as an obstacle to the opening of negotiations and macedonia's accession to the european union. in the case of macedonia, let us not be guided by emotions but by copenhagen criteria.
acting president of the council. i can only express the hope and the hope that this will indeed be the case. it is indeed up to the domestic authorities in turkey to adopt whatever legislation they see fit. the council has no way, as it imagines, of forcing turkey to adopt any legislation. of course, you can express your will and desire that it be so and show your approval. in fact, as you know, we have naturally done so in the negotiations for turkey's accession to the european union. these issues also obviously have implications and repercussions in this negotiating process.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would like to say that security of supply is one of the three objectives of the community's energy policy and it can be said that the aim of this policy is the highest degree of energy security. but, like other community policies, this policy must also take into account other factors such as costs, internal market rules and, above all, the european union's major objectives on climate change. energy security is not an objective and quantifiable goal for which a numerical value can be set. it must be seen as a process in a dynamic perspective which depends on the interaction of the european union with third countries as well as on the preferences of the citizens of the european union in the field of energy saving and technological development. in answer to the first question, therefore, the council has not set an energy security target, as the honourable member refers to, nor is the council aware that the commission is preparing any legislative proposal of this nature. the presidency of the council would also like to stress that one of the main objectives of the development and implementation of the community's internal and external energy policy is to ensure and increase the security of supply of the european union over the coming decades. this was clearly confirmed, as is well known, in the conclusions of the european council of 8 and 9 march 2007, conclusions which can almost be considered historic in this respect. the main elements of the community's energy policy which contribute directly or indirectly to increased security of supply and which will continue to be the main drivers of increased energy security in the european union over the next 20 years, as the honourable member points out, are firstly the diversification of both energy sources and suppliers, secondly an increased use of renewable energy, thirdly greater energy efficiency and fourthly the strengthening of the community's energy networks. in addition to these major policy objectives and guidelines, the european council's action plan, adopted in march, lists a number of other measures, such as the study of gas storage facilities, the development of effective crisis response mechanisms and the creation of an energy observatory, which will lead to increased security of supply for the european union as a whole and for each of the member states.
first of all, thank you for your very comprehensive answer, but i would like to ask if there is an investment programme, because investments in energy are long-term and very expensive. is there any plan to develop such a programme?
member of the commission. madam president, i will respond as quickly as i can. i can say first of all that i as always regret the loss of life very strongly. the loss of life of the fire workers in greece and the loss of life for instance in spain and in other countries. i myself come from a country where we had other big losses because of floods. you might remember a few years ago when i was still the austria foreign minister. indeed, the floods had been very strong in the czech republic, in austria, in germany and in many other countries. it was my government that started the process of this solidarity fund. so i know how necessary this is and i can tell you that we will continue to use the solidarity fund, but this is on top of all the efforts that have to be done nationally. this is the one thing that has not been mentioned here, i must say. but of course i understand all the concerns that have been mentioned because i myself have also lived through fires, especially in the south of europe. i know what that means. so i completely understand you. whilst of course the renewed interinstitutional agreement guarantees the financing of the fund until 2013, i regret, and i must tell you frankly, that the council has so far not responded favourably to the joint efforts of the commission and parliament to further improve the instrument of the solidarity fund. in april 2005, the commission presented to parliament and the council its proposal for a revised solidarity fund regulation – and i think we are speaking about that here – whose key elements have a large scope and a provision for advance payments and simplification. the proposal was very favourably received here but so far, as i said, no progress has yet been made in the council. the finnish presidency did not continue discussing the proposal, and in spite of our efforts, the german presidency, as was also mentioned in the debate, did not put the issue back on the agenda. hopefully, this can come in the future. i think it is important. finally, on the barnier report, we are also committed to continuously reinforcing the existing civil protection mechanism. i think the barnier report remains a great source of inspiration for this work. for the long term, a more effective system is needed to ensure the best possible response to natural and other disasters, both inside and outside the community. we view a gradual move from a coordination mechanism to some sort of european civil protection force, as is mentioned in the barnier report, as a positive development of this policy. this work could then build on the modules which the commission and the member states are currently developing. lastly let me say that there is a great package on the questions of climate and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that has been put on the table of all the member states by the commission and was adopted by the member states in the european council in the spring. i think the things are there and they now have to be implemented.
member of the commission. madam president, members of parliament. i would first of all like to thank mr becsey and parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs for the excellent report on the community statistical programme for 2008-2012. this will indeed allow a timely adoption of the legal basis and a smooth start to the programme in 2008. the community statistical programme constitutes the framework for the production of all statistics as well as the financial framework for the production of community statistics during the programme period. statistics are a key element for policy-making and, as such, the new programme has indeed focused on the current priorities of the union, from growth and competitiveness to sustainable development and security. parliament’s amendments, aimed at strengthening the gender and regional dimensions in statistics and substantiating the reporting obligations, are particularly welcomed by the commission. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr becsey, once again, as well as the committee on regional development for their valuable efforts to provide the community with a solid basis for the production of statistics over the next five years. regarding fiscal statistics and the oral question by mr becsey and mr radwan, the commission certainly agrees that the quality of fiscal data is vital for the correct functioning of economic and monetary union and its budgetary surveillance system as well as for the assessment of the convergence criteria when evaluating the application of a member state for entry into the euro area. fiscal statistics, like any other statistics, are subject to revision. data are routinely revised when new information on government transactions becomes available or when errors or inconsistencies are identified and corrected. revision also takes place in a paramount effort to comply better with the accounting rules. for statisticians, data usually become final only after four years at the earliest. most revisions, in fiscal statistics, are small and have no significant impact on economic analysis and fiscal surveillance. unfortunately, there have also been some episodes of large revisions in fiscal statistics that put fiscal surveillance under stress. however, it is important to note that, in most cases, those revisions have not been a surprise. they were indeed preceded by public statements by eurostat, drawing attention to the fact that the data initially reported by the member states were not in compliance with the accounting rules and requiring member states to amend them. whenever necessary eurostat has even itself amended data reported by the member states. in compliance with regulation 2103/2005, eurostat has reported – and will report regularly to the european parliament and to the council – on the quality of the fiscal data transmitted by member states. with regard to forecasts, the commission regularly assesses the forecasts and projections announced by member states in their stability and convergence programmes by comparing them with the commission’s own forecasts. for several member states, the commission has publicly noted on some occasions that the fiscal forecasts contained in the stability and convergence programmes were based on optimistic macroeconomic projections. the commission has also pointed out cases where the national projections were not compliant with the accounting rules for specific transactions or where the planned policy measures underlying the forecasts had not yet been confirmed. in preparing its own forecasts, the commission systematically compares its numbers with projections released by the imf, the oecd and other organisations. experience shows that the forecasts published by the commission – both the macroeconomic and the fiscal figures – are not biased and are at least as reliable as those of other forecasters.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - i have to go. i thank mr becsey for his report. i thank you twice, first as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development and secondly as representative of my political group. i'm not going to go into the definition of statistics. i'll just say that it's a science that deals with quantitative methods of studying phenomena and processes of a mass nature. it aims to discover the regularities that govern these phenomena and to quantify them. it allows the results of the analyses to be generalized and the degree of accuracy and reliability of the results to be assessed. i have mentioned this for a reason, because statistics are often the basis for very important decisions, whether at local, regional, national, eu or even global level. it is therefore fortunate that we have a community statistical programme for the years 2008 to 2012. statistics prepared in a reliable and responsible manner are of immense value. therefore, the cost of obtaining them must be appropriate. at this point, i would like to ask the commissioner whether our ambitious programme for the next five years has sufficient financial backing. we are undertaking actions to reach 27 member states with varying levels of experience in this sensitive area. so my second question is: what steps have been or will be taken to ensure the best possible coordination of statistical analysis? the commissioner was kind enough to emphasise the importance of the opinion of the committee on regional development, and i thank her for that complimentary opinion. i would now like to turn to regional issues. the european union, for example, has allocated more than one third of its budget for the 2007-2013 period to a broad regional policy, implementing the principle of cohesion and solidarity between regions with very different levels of prosperity. this money is the money of the european taxpayer and it cannot be wasted in any way. we therefore need to have fully objective, sufficiently comprehensive and reliable methods of monitoring the implementation of structural policies. do we have such methods? this requires the collection and compilation of statistical data, both at community, member state and regional level, as well as at the lower local level. these data must be comparable in nature and dates both within and outside the union, as we often compare ourselves with other countries. it is unacceptable that the achievement of temporary or temporary objectives or technical problems lead to the fact that we have periodic neglect in the collection of statistics. it has fatal consequences. statistical analyses for regions are based on nuts units. the question is, does this division always result in unambiguously reliable data? my reservations are particularly relevant in situations where the level of development and prosperity of the regional capital is clearly higher than that of the rest of the area. the second issue i would like to raise is the question of the development metrics of countries or regions: whether gdp per capita is sufficient, what weight should be given to the unemployment rate, how to assess the quality of life in a given area, and so on. these are important issues, and i know they're not easily resolved. we often talk about innovation in parliament. we should therefore have reliable data in the fields of education, science, research and innovation. the question is: what methods do you use to compare data that often comes from unofficial sources? how do you define the dynamics of change? i would like to raise one more social issue. we are witnessing the changes that are associated with the movement of large numbers of people, especially workers. how does this affect the social status and the status of families? it should also be borne in mind that high statistical reliability always implies trust in the sources of information, which implies confidentiality and often anonymity of the primary data. in conclusion, i would like to express the hope that the community statistical programme will serve the fundamental objectives of the european union well. i am convinced of this both by the attitude of eurostat and by that of the polish central statistical office. i hope so.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report we are considering today and on which we will be voting today concerns the agreement on enhanced cooperation between the european union and ukraine. i do not want to repeat the content of this report, but i would like to concentrate in my speech on the wider context in which this report should be considered. firstly, we give a real assessment of the situation in ukraine in the report, and so on the one hand we give a high assessment of what should be given a high assessment, namely the enormous effort of the ukrainian society and the ukrainian authorities towards full democratisation, a market economy, respect for human rights. it must be said that in the dozen or so years since its independence, ukraine has made tremendous progress in building a modern european society. today, ukraine is a tolerant country, a free country, a democratic country, and finally a country where the majority of the population is in favour of integration with the european union, as all polls show. it is also worth pointing out - and we do not hide this in the report - that there are also problems in ukraine. we call on the ukrainian government to deal with them. these include problems related to the free and smooth functioning of foreign companies in ukraine, including those from the european union. there are instances of criminal activity. the ukrainian government declares that it will try to fight it, which is also to be welcomed. i would also like to stress that in working on this report i have met with a very supportive attitude from members from all groups who are interested in the ukrainian issue. i would like to thank, among others, mr siwc, the member for the socialist group who is in the chamber and who has been very helpful to me as vice-president of parliament responsible for relations with ukraine. from the beginning, i wanted this report to be a document that unites this chamber, not divides it, to be a document where we try to find consensus. it seems worthwhile that today the european parliament, which is an institution that is being monitored in ukraine, sends a signal to the ukrainian society that the european union does not want to close its doors to ukrainians, although it realistically assesses ukraine's membership, which is not a near prospect. this great nation is a european nation and anyone who has been to ukraine can easily see how important a part of europe's cultural heritage ukraine is. we need only look at kiev as the cradle of a very important christian sect in eastern europe to realise that the ukrainian people and the ukrainian state fully deserve to be spoken of as a european nation and that we, as the european parliament, as the union, should treat this country with sympathy and respect. i hope that, as i have said, this report will be seen in this house as a compromise document, that it will be seen as a document of the goodwill of our institution, the european parliament, towards the ukrainian people.
member of the commission. mr president, members of the european parliament, on behalf of my colleague, commissioner ferrero-waldner, who i am replacing today, i welcome this opportunity to discuss relations between the european union and the ukraine based on the very good report by mr kamiński. this report is a balanced political document which contains clear messages. as you know, the situation in ukraine remains difficult. it is crucial that the agreement of 27 may between president yushchenko and prime minister yanukovych to hold early elections on 30 september is fulfilled. the main players have to stabilise the country’s political situation, and they must establish a viable constitutional system. only in this way can they create the conditions for the country to move forward with political and economic reforms, based on respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the market economy. in relation to the elections, it is paramount to ensure they are conducted in a democratic manner in accordance with international standards. we have been in regular contact with the various political sides in ukraine to pass on these messages. we regularly continue to do so. for instance, my colleague commissioner ferrero-waldner met prime minister yanukovych at the cooperation council on 18 june, and she will meet foreign minister yatsenyuk next week. the eu-ukraine summit on 14 september in kiev, just two weeks before the elections, will be a key event to reaffirm these messages at the highest level. we strongly welcome the fact that the report by mr kamiński emphasises these crucial messages. this document, along with the recent visit of a european parliament delegation to ukraine, led by mr severin, the chairman of the parliament’s delegation for relations with ukraine, is a valuable contribution towards ensuring stabilisation of the situation in ukraine and emphasising the importance of constitutional reform. close coordination between the european parliament and the commission on these steps is particularly welcome. as regards the new enhanced agreement, the political crisis has not had a detrimental effect on the negotiations for the time being. both political sides in ukraine attach high importance to the negotiations, four rounds of which have already taken place. the last round took place only last week, on 2 to 4 july in kiev, and good progress has been achieved on political, justice-related, freedom and security-related and other sectoral aspects of the agreement. the ukrainian side, for whom the european perspective is a key concern, is emphasising its objective of ‘political association and economic integration’ in these negotiations. the summit on 14 september will be an important occasion to assess the overall status of negotiations and provide political momentum for further progress. as it is pointed out in mr kamiński’s report, negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade area, which will be a core element of the new enhanced agreement, will start as soon as ukraine’s wto accession process is finalised. there are still some outstanding issues to discuss, not only with the european union, but also with other parties, but with some goodwill on the ukrainian side, their efforts should come to fruition during the course of this year. in conclusion, we very much welcome this report and the key messages it sends to the ukrainian side. on the main issue you raise, i.e. the eu response to ukraine’s european aspirations, our position is clear: our aim in the negotiations is to bring ukraine as close as possible to the european union in as many areas as possible, while not prejudging any possible future developments in eu-ukraine relations.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report that everyone is praising came out of a reflection on what ukraine is, what ukraine is to europe. this reflection was made in the european parliament almost three years ago, before the orange revolution was even mentioned. we are getting to the point where we want to write a plan on paper, we want to call it a treaty, perhaps an association treaty, that will bring ukraine closer to the european union. like you said, commissioner, as close as possible. 'as close as possible' - it could be the zero distance, that is, membership of the european union someday, and let's not be afraid to talk about it. let's not be afraid to say that there is a chance. let's talk about it to the ukrainians, too, and this report, as the first official document of the european union, contains this wording. to make this possible, ukraine has a gigantic task and a sense of responsibility and duty to its own citizens. reforms will be difficult and painful. we want to help with these reforms, and the european union and its membership and european aspirations should be a matter of agreement, not dispute. ukrainian parties that run for election must make it clear to the ukrainian people that they are for membership, that they will not argue about it but will work. i say this with some comfort, because the european union, by agreeing at the last summit, has clearly shown that it is open to further enlargement. the european union has shown that it is willing to apply this procedure in a reasonable and balanced manner, to the benefit of the member states and the candidate countries and those countries which may wish to apply in the future. i encourage you to accept this report without further amendments. i encourage it to be an important signal to ukraine, to the european union societies, that we look at the future of ukraine not in terms of threats or fear, but in terms of the great opportunities and challenges that face the europeans and the ukrainians.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the author of this report, our distinguished colleague mr michał kaminski, for the preparation of this extremely important document. today's report is very important because it calls on the council of the european union to present a clear european perspective to ukraine so that the new enlarged agreement provides the appropriate framework for ukraine's integration into the union and opens the way to its future full membership of the european union. as marek siwiec of the socialist group has already pointed out, this is in fact the first official document of the european union to speak of such full membership. we are also considering this report at a very important moment for ukraine. in a little over two months, there will be a parliamentary election. we have to be honest with ourselves that the lack of a clear signal sent from here to kiev would be exploited by opponents of reform and pro-western direction in ukraine. the report by mr kaminski is just such a signal, another pro-ukrainian voice in the european parliament. i am convinced that the adoption of today's report will further strengthen the european union's relations with ukraine. we sometimes hear skeptical voices in ukraine who say that their country has no choice and has to go only east because the west doesn't want it. i hope the outcome of today's vote proves these politicians wrong. ukraine needs to be given priority consideration, not least because of the key role it plays in ensuring the stability and energy security of the european union. especially now, when support is needed for the decision to change the direction of the odessa-brody pipeline and for its extension into the territory of the european union. i would like to recall that a significant example of the trust placed in ukraine as a valuable member of the european democratic community is the decision of uefa to entrust poland and ukraine with the joint organisation of the european football championship in 2012. finally, i would like to stress that ukraine's membership of europe is defined by its historical ties with its neighbours. since regaining its independence, ukraine has made a democratic choice of direction for the development of the state, which is characteristic of all european countries. i hope that today the european parliament will confirm that this choice was the right one.
mr. chairman, please! the mandate we are talking about is finally the positive, constructive signal from the european community that the reformist forces in ukraine have been waiting for. ukraine is a very young country, barely twenty years old, which is just learning to function, learning to build and respect its own structures and institutions, learning democratic rules. before that, for hundreds of years, ukrainians were without a state of their own and the situation of this country cannot be compared in any way to the baltic states, which lost their statehood for a period of forty years. it is extremely important to see what models will shape the young state of ukraine, the largest direct neighbour of the european union. who and what effort will mobilize the ukrainians - russia, a country without democracy, with an economy riddled with corruption, a tool of political influence, or a democratic, free european union. until now, the european union has been indifferent to ukraine's european aspirations. apart from its short-lived, constructive involvement in the orange revolution, the european community has so far demonstrated, through the speeches of successive commissioners, indifference and detachment. the mandate we're debating is an opportunity to change that. it sets out a long-term perspective for membership of the european union, declares an increase in financial assistance after a mid-term review, establishes a free trade area and visa facilitation. it's not free. in return, the community makes clear that it expects ukraine to continue along the path of democracy, to focus on building democratic state institutions capable of resolving crises on their own, to reform and make independent of political influence, first and foremost, the judiciary, to finally establish a fully independent constitutional court, to achieve the separation of politics and economy and to effectively combat corruption. this is a huge task that will be difficult for the ukrainians to accomplish, it will take many, many years. however, i am convinced that ukraine will only be able to meet these challenges if it has a clear, albeit distant, perspective of european integration. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. three years after the orange revolution, we have every right to be dissatisfied with the progress of democracy, free markets and the rule of law in ukraine. but those who have lived through the communist era of the second half of the 20th century - and there are now 10 such countries in the union - know how difficult it is to free oneself mentally and institutionally from the oppressive and paralyzing system of real socialism. let's remember that ukraine today has a free and diverse media, and this is always the most important guarantee of progress. i agree with most of what you said. if we're so in agreement, why don't we want to put a period on the "i"? why don't we write clearly about ukraine's future membership in the european union, which we know will be a very distant future anyway? if we as a union want to promote our values, democracy, free markets, the rule of law in eastern europe, especially in belarus, russia and the caspian sea, then we must have a clear position on ukraine. we need to be clear about her future membership. if we do not do this, we will lose the chance of a long-term, beneficial stabilisation in eastern europe. our proposals for ukraine's future membership of the european union impose nothing on ukraine. it's still up to the ukrainians. i wanted to make that very clear. and they're not false promises. today, we have two more specific tasks. first, to ensure that the elections scheduled for 30 september are held by diplomatic means. second, send a meaningful, not just a symbolic, group of observers to the elections. it's our duty, and it's what all the ukrainians i've talked to have asked for.
mr. chairman, please! we are talking today about an agreement between the european union and the second largest country in europe after russia. the largest country geographically, which has been participating and co-creating european culture for a thousand years, and which has for years expressed very clear aspirations to membership in the european union, believing that the provisions of our treaties, which say that every european country has the right to membership, are not something absolutely empty. it is also a very important country for europe, as has been mentioned many times in this chamber and as is mentioned in the proposed text of the report. for example, for energy reasons, ukraine should already be part of the european energy security system today and actions such as the odessa-brody pipeline, the involvement of ukraine in the nabokov pipeline or the encouragement of guam are all very appropriate. it is said here that the ukrainian political institutions are not ripe for eu membership, and today this is true, but i don't think that the ukrainian institutions and ukrainian democracy are any worse than the situation we are facing in turkey. it should also be remembered that ukraine, if you don't count the baltic states, is the most democratic country of all the countries that emerged after the collapse of the soviet union. so let's give ukraine the green light.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is largely about the future of europe - whether it will be based on the christian tradition or whether it will lose its past and future. ukraine is part of europe, the europe of our traditions and our ancestral values, and its place is among us. i'm surprised some of the mps are more concerned with the middle east. you see europe in asia, and you ignore a large part of our continent. today, ukraine is in the throes of political and economic crises, and it is therefore now that we must give it a clear signal that we want it to be with us, that the people of this country make the right political choice to stabilise the situation in the eastern areas of the union. i congratulate mr. kaminski on his report. the content of the report shows the desire to strengthen europe, a europe of traditions and values, but also the economic and geopolitical potential of the enlarged community.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has obligations towards ukraine. two years ago, we were heavily involved in supporting the orange revolution in kiev. it was about restoring democracy in this country then, it's about consolidating it now. for this to happen, ukraine needs a clear vision for the future. we cannot say, as the commissioner said, that ukraine should be as close as possible to the union. you have to speak with an open mind. ukraine should have the prospect of membership, i stress, of membership of the european union. before that happens, we should support ukraine's economic development by signing an association agreement with it, establishing a free trade area and supporting its membership of the wto. we must also be clear about this: the union has its interests in ukraine and therefore we have every right to expect the ukrainians to introduce european standards into their economy, to separate politics from the economy, to resolve the current political crisis democratically, that is to say, to hold the upcoming elections legé artis. we also have the right to expect that the inter-parliamentary team for the alignment of ukrainian law with eu standards, which was formed in the current ukrainian parliament, will be reactivated in the next parliament and will be our significant partner in the future.
madam president! the key to success in politics is to set clear goals and to pursue them consistently. consistency is crucial, especially in the complex political system of the union. in the case of ukraine, a region of enormous political, economic and strategic importance, the european union must show iron-clad determination to achieve the objectives it has set out in advance. the european union supported ukraine at a crucial moment in its history during the orange revolution, when the country was deciding which direction to take - east or west, the european union or russia. we made the right decision, and we need to follow through. now the situation is much less dramatic. the european union must, however, take decisive action to integrate ukraine into the eu structures. the european union should support ukraine's young democracy and protect it from internal threats, acting in partnership and solidarity. further integration into the structures of the european union requires increased efforts by ukrainians, including in areas such as the fight against corruption, the modernisation of the legal system and infrastructure. without our help, ukraine will not be able to achieve eu standards of democracy and free markets, the rule of law and the separation of politics and economy. i regret to note that the issue of ukraine is not a priority for the portuguese presidency. in the document we received, ukraine is mentioned, but unlike brazil, it is a pity that it is not given a separate chapter. ukraine is the largest european country outside the european union and it needs to be given a long-term perspective for membership, as turkey has been. and a little bit about the hypocrisy of europe. the supporters of the constitutional treaty, criticizing the treaty of nice, raised as one of the main objections that it would not be possible to enlarge the european union on its basis, so now let them be consistent and say with the same force that the reform treaty will allow a historic decision to be made on ukraine's future membership in the european union.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - i have to go. i congratulate you on this honourable appointment. the european union is not just 27 countries, but 268 regions that share huge disparities in development. the recent enlargement of the union to 27 countries has increased the population of the community to almost 493 million, of which about 30% live in the 100 poorest regions, the regions covered by the convergence objective. each enlargement has led to greater disparities between the richest and poorest regions of the community. in the union of 27, the differences in gdp between regions are now much greater than they were in the old 15, ranging from 24% in north-eastern romania to 303% in central london. the causes of economic backwardness vary widely from region to region. the poorest regions lack, in particular, the basic infrastructure necessary for sustainable and sustainable development and further investment, and adequate human resources. statistics show that the eu's cohesion policy has so far been effective in promoting the development of many regions in countries that have long been part of it, such as ireland, greece, portugal and spain. in accordance with the community objective, set out in article 158 of the treaty establishing the european community, of the harmonious development and reduction of disparities in the levels of development of the various regions, as the european parliament we call for decisive action to reduce the most acute delays in the development of the poorest regions of the european union. the new member states are particularly hard-pressed to absorb eu funds, as the allocation of funds does not guarantee their proper use, and authorities in poor regions often lack the skills, experience and necessary own resources to make full use of the funds they are entitled to. the procedures for applying for structural fund assistance are often very complex and not entirely transparent to the final recipient. we therefore call for simplification at all levels: european, national and regional. the implementation of cohesion policy should take into account the diverse needs of regions, including in particular urban, rural, hard-to-reach regions, islands, outermost regions, by adapting assistance to their conditions and specific characteristics, while exploiting their potential for sustainable and resilient development. member states and regions should therefore give priority to those projects which contribute to improving accessibility in the poorest regions by providing them with basic transport and telecommunications infrastructure. cohesion policy should support entrepreneurship and investment in the poorest regions. new financial instruments such as jeremy and jessica can make an effective contribution to regional development, but there is still very little awareness of the potential of using them at local and regional level. it is important to encourage member states to establish public-private partnerships and to exchange good practices in this regard. the commission and the member states should effectively support projects that increase the capacity of regions to generate and absorb new technologies, with particular attention to environmental protection. the high unemployment rate of up to 20% is a major problem in the poorest regions of the union. in this context, there is an urgent need to invest in human capital in poor regions through better education, continuous upskilling, especially of young people, women and the elderly, and of vulnerable minorities. promoting equal opportunities for all should be part of every community programme, especially those affecting economic and social cohesion, and at all stages of the design and implementation of projects implemented under the european union's cohesion policy. the commission and the member states should ensure that accurate, complete and comparable statistics are available, which are sadly lacking. the commission should define a new way of measuring regional development, not only on the basis of gdp and unemployment, but also on the basis of other quantitative and qualitative indicators that reflect the real living standards of the population. the method of calculating purchasing power parity should also be improved by developing regional rather than national indicators. on the occasion of the 2009 mid-term review of the community budget, the commission should analyse the effects of cohesion policy and examine the causes of any undesirable outcomes. in conclusion, i would like to thank all those who contributed to this report. i thank you for the valuable amendments that have enriched this document, and i sincerely hope that this own-initiative report will provide useful guidance for the member states and regions and a stimulus for the european commission to improve the effectiveness of cohesion policy in the regions most in need.
madam president! the fourth cohesion report, recently published by the commission, confirms the progress already made in reducing the disparities in development between the richest and poorest regions of europe. assuming that the strongest regions maintain a constant high growth rate, also confirmed by a high innovation burden, it is necessary to consider that the weakest regions show an increased growth rate, not only maintaining the same gap, but even substantially reducing it. these facts confirm the thesis that the european union's cohesion policy is effective and that it needs to be pursued and developed in the following programming periods. the report in question refers to the poorest regions of the european union, not to the poorest regions of the member states, which are often among the relatively richest regions of the european union. interregional disparities at national level are therefore primarily a matter for national authorities and should, especially in the so-called cohesion countries, be supported by european interventions. it requires a distinct and courageous political decision to define which regions we consider to be the poorest and which require specific action to strengthen the pro-development directions. we must remember that the treaty provisions speak of disparities between regions and that cohesion policy must cover not only the poorest regions in terms of gdp per capita but also regions that are distant from others in terms of their level of innovation, the development of the knowledge-based economy, the attractiveness of investment, geographical location and others. as economic growth and the deepening of the common market take place, some disparities may be reduced, but new ones will emerge. cohesion policy has not been and is not a charitable activity and must remain a flexible intervention tool of the european union.
madam president! i would like to point out that i cannot take responsibility for the first part of the vote on the barsi-pataky report, because at that time the name of the previous rapporteur, mr cramer, was on the blackboard and i could therefore have made a mistake in voting on the barsi-pataky report.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr dariusz rosatie on the review of the euro area situation in 2007. professor rosati presented a well-researched report which certainly provides a good basis for discussion on the general economic situation in the euro area and the next steps and challenges ahead. in 2006, the euro area experienced strong exports, a recovery in domestic demand and an acceleration in gdp growth, a fall in unemployment, the creation of 2 million new jobs, a stable inflation rate and a reduction in the fiscal deficit. at the same time, as the report notes, the deficits of the largest economies remain high, there is a lack of fiscal discipline that could lead to monetary tightening, and there are growing differences in economic development, productivity and competitiveness between member states. the rapporteur rightly notes the need for structural change and for measures to develop competition and open up the services market, which can have a positive impact on growth and job creation.
madam president! we have adopted a very important report on the negotiating mandate for a new enlarged agreement between the european community, its member states and ukraine. i am convinced that this beautiful and large country will be a member of the european union in the future. this will be possible only if it continues to pursue vigorously social, economic and political reforms, strengthening democracy and respect for human rights. relations with our eastern neighbour should be deepened, especially in economic and cultural terms. projects relating to the exchange of young people, students and researchers should be promoted. it is of the utmost importance to support the integration of the energy sector of ukraine into the energy market of the european union. it is high time that the european union opened up more to ukraine. the adopted report is a good example of this.
madam president! the kaminski report on the negotiating mandate for a new, enlarged agreement between the european community, its member states and ukraine is a good step towards rapprochement between the union and ukraine. it's just a shame that the report was written so late. fear of russia and its machinations, including in ukraine, has brought down a new iron curtain, this time on ukraine's western border. it's time to change that. it seems to me that ukraine has priority for membership in the european union, not turkey. it is ukraine, not turkey, which is a european country, which is a european culture and which is a state governed by the rule of law. in addition, ukraine recognises all the member states of the european union. turkey, for example, does not recognise the independence of cyprus. so in future accession negotiations, priority should be given to ukraine, not to a culturally alien turkey.
madam president! as regards mr kaminski's report on ukraine, i would like to stress that this is the most important declaration of the european parliament during this part-session. it comes at a very good time, but in the absence of political stability in ukraine. here we are, the european union, sending a clear and readable signal: 'yes, we are together, we invite you to close cooperation in the future and, in time, probably to membership'. this is a signal to all pro-european, pro-western politicians in ukraine that it is worth investing in reforms, in the development of democracy and in changing the profile of this country. i would also like to stress that this vote by the european parliament is particularly important for moral reasons. we are addressing another country that was not willing to remain in the soviet zone, the union of soviet socialist republics.
madam president! i am very sorry, but i would like to explain my vote on the report on macedonia, if that is possible.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the humanitarian situation of iraqi refugees. see the minutes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the humanitarian and human rights situation in iraq continues to deteriorate. this is according to the reports of the un assistance mission for iraq. the figures are alarming: on average, about a hundred people are killed every day, more than two hundred are injured, 50% of the population live on less than a dollar a day, and the unemployment rate is 80%. inadequate water supplies and poor sanitation systems contribute to the spread of disease. three-quarters of the children are out of school. criminal activity, armed robbery, kidnapping, killing of people involved in political activity or rebuilding the country is commonplace. it's for these reasons that many iraqis are fleeing the country, and over two million people have become internally displaced. it should also be noted that there are more than 40,000 refugees from other countries in iraq, including 15,000 palestinians. this is the picture of iraq today. immediate political and humanitarian action is therefore needed to alleviate the plight of refugees. let's remember that half a million of the refugees are children. internally displaced persons should be registered, which will give them the right to food allocation. today, they are denied that right. neighbouring countries should also be persuaded not to restrict the entry of refugees, forcing many to remain at the border. the union must ensure that our assistance to iraq, to the iraqi people, is comprehensive, sustained and coordinated with the united states. the union should reject anti-american prejudice once and for all. only then can the plight of millions of refugees be alleviated and a large-scale humanitarian crisis avoided. we must also call on the iraqi government to take immediate action to ensure the safety of the displaced population and to end discriminatory practices based on origin. the european commission should increase humanitarian aid to all displaced people in iraq and support neighbouring countries that are already providing such aid.
member of the commission. mr president, the security deterioration in iraq has provoked a large scale displacement: approximately two million iraqis have fled within the borders of iraq and approximately two million into the neighbouring countries, with 750 000 people in jordan and 1.4 million people in syria. this displacement may result in a humanitarian crisis, and could present a threat to regional stability and the commission is extremely concerned about the scale of human suffering. we are following the situation closely on the ground and constantly reviewing any developments. we are in close contact with other key players of the international community, such as the united nations high commission for refugees. in this regard, the commission has actively participated at the unhcr international conference last april in geneva. in terms of existing assistance, in order to alleviate the difficulties of the displaced, the commission, via europeaid, allocated eur 10 million in 2006 to support internally displaced persons. in february 2007, as a rapid response to the deteriorating situation and following the unhcr appeal in january, the commission, via echo, announced an additional allocation of eur 10.2 million, composed of eur 4 million for the internally displaced and eur 6.2 million for the externally displaced iraqis. furthermore, the commission is continuing its support of the delivery of basic services inside iraq. we understand that this support remains limited in the face of the scale of human suffering. nevertheless, it constitutes only a first, immediate response to the humanitarian situation. the commission is currently looking at various options on how to better assist the iraqi refugees in the future. however, delivery of assistance inside iraq is severely constrained by the security situation. many of our partners, including unhcr, have only a very minimal presence in iraq. through various technical and political missions, the commission attempts to better assess the situation and, at the same time, convey its readiness to further support the iraqi refugees. commissioner michel visited the region himself at the end of april. several technical missions to jordan and syria have also followed since then. we remain, therefore, committed to working with the countries that are accommodating iraqi refugees. the commission has already and will retain regular discussions with the syrian and jordan authorities about the situation. we are looking forward particularly to participate in the sharm el-sheikh agreed working group on refugees, which, according to the latest indication, is scheduled to meet on 22 july in amman. commissioner ferrero-waldner has already expressed the commission’s readiness to provide technical assistance to the working group in order to facilitate the process. we believe that the only durable solution for the refugees is peace and reconciliation inside iraq. towards this end, we will continue our support to the iraqi refugees. i agree with you that we have a moral duty to help.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights violations in transnistria (moldova). look at the protocol.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: what we're seeing today is a kind of unwanted legacy of the soviet union's collapse. the soviet union, in order to strengthen its internal power, tried to create as much displacement as possible within its borders. hence the problems in all these former republics where the russian minority is a huge part of the local community; hence the problems in the caucasus countries, hence the problems in the baltic countries, hence the great problem of transnistria. however, while in those countries the russian minority constitutes a serious threat to those countries, because it does not generally show solidarity with them, but shows solidarity with russia and looks to russia for support - as the heirs of the former soviet union, on the territory of moldova, the state integrity of moldova was directly destroyed in a significant area, because there the russian minority constituted such a significant majority that it led to the de facto separation from moldova of the territory, which it defined as the self-proclaimed republic of transnistria. we must realize that the political lawlessness committed by the leaders of the russian population in transnistria is of course directly reflected in the violation of fundamental human rights, in the persecution of the local population, the moldovan population (de facto the romanian population), but it also leads to another kind of lawlessness, because political lawlessness does not stand alone. there's a criminal lawsuit on its way. the domination of social life by various gangs and the various types of lawbreaking are particularly affecting the social life of the inhabitants of this part of moldova. i would simply point out that any future recognition of independence, for example in kosovo, where the albanian population is predominantly in the original serbian territory, could lead to the encouragement of the russian population of transnistria to continue its resistance to the legitimate moldovan authorities.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. once again, we in the european parliament are dealing with the human rights problem in transnistria. i've spoken about this myself a few times. this is a territory that is actually in the geographical centre of europe, the european continent. a territory without freedom of information does not have the liberal democratic freedoms that are the norm in the european union. we are dealing with russian interference, because only with the protection of the russian state can this bizarre situation, this bizarre territory, this bizarre power exist. i would like to remind you that gazprom took control of the national gas company moldova gas in moldova this year. with the accession of romania to the european union, the transnistrian problem is now one of the main problems of the european union. i call on the european parliament to ask the institutions of the european union to take this matter seriously. i ask you to outline the scenarios that will lead to a change in this bizarre and very dangerous situation for peace, democracy and the stability of the european continent. let us take real action to change this situation at the borders of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i get the impression that strange administrative structures like transnistria exist only to remind us how little is needed to bring about a situation where human rights violations are the norm and disrespect for law and the voice of the international community is the basis of functioning. if anyone has forgotten or wants to know what model communism looks like in the kgb edition, they should go to transnistria. despite the best efforts of international organizations, nothing has changed for years. transnistria is now the european, and perhaps even the world, centre of the illegal arms trade, which reaches the world's most dangerous places. it is also a place of trafficking in drugs, women and children, and a complete lack of respect for the rights of the imprisoned. if we do not do our part to change the situation, attitudes that we strongly disapprove of may prevail. and one amendment to the resolution we are voting on: we commemorate the recently released, and to be welcomed, mr tudor popa. there are two members of his name listed there: petrov-popa. he does not wish to use the russian part of his name, which was imposed on him by the self-proclaimed authorities of transnistria, and therefore it should be written: tudor popa.
member of the commission. mr president, strengthening democracy and the rule of law and ensuring due respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are at the very heart of eu-moldova relations. these are also key elements of the european union-moldova action plan endorsed in february 2005. the european commission monitors closely, on a continuous basis, that these rights and principles are respected by the moldovan authorities. we discuss these issues regularly and openly with our moldovan partners and encourage them on every occasion to ensure the full implementation and practice of these key principles for the benefit of moldovan citizens and european union-moldovan relations. as regards the situation in the transnistrian region, this region is de facto not under the control of the government in chisinau. this is to say that the reforms which have taken place in moldova have not taken place in the transnistrian region. this also implies that de facto the european union-moldova action plan and the european union’s support for the reform process in moldova have so far not had a real impact on the situation in the transnistrian region. the situation in the region regarding democracy, the rule of law and human rights is, therefore, highly problematic. showing every citizen of moldova, including those in transnistria, the benefits of a closer relationship with the european union, including the implications this has for internal reform and respect for human rights, is an important element of our work. it is a key aspect of our work in the context of the transnistrian settlement efforts. the european union is strongly engaged in the transnistrian settlement efforts with the aim to contribute to the settlement of this frozen conflict. the result of such a settlement must be based on the principles of moldova’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and on the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. as part of these efforts, we try to increasingly involve in our work ngos and civil society in the transnistrian region. to that end, the commission will also be providing financial assistance under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument with the objective of strengthening civil society in transnistria. i should like to thank you for all your comments and that i took note of your views, including the view that the role of the european union in the settlement talks should be upgraded. the need for a settlement of the transnistrian conflict, based on the principles of moldovan sovereignty and territorial integrity and the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, is raised consistently and at all levels by the eu in its contacts with russia. let me reiterate our strong commitment to supporting the reform process in moldova and its deep involvement in efforts to work towards a settlement of the transnistrian issue. the objective of these efforts is a reunified moldova, based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the debate on six draft resolutions on human rights in vietnam.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is another debate about religious persecution and human rights violations in countries like vietnam, cambodia and laos. vietnam, a rapidly developing country, is playing a special role in this region, as it is making up for the cultural and economic gap that has existed since the days of communism. but the increase in prosperity has not been matched by respect for human rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion. in my previous speeches to the european parliament, i myself have focused on the persecution of buddhists, the largest religious community in the country, but now we are hearing about the persecution of catholics, for example, of catholic priest nguyen van ly. it is sad that i spoke about this in this parliament a year and a half ago, as did mrs korhola, and now, after a dozen or so months, i have to say virtually the same thing. it is to be expected that the countries associated with asian international organisations such as asean and asem, but also the un and the high commissioner for human rights, will intervene decisively with the authorities of the socialist republic of vietnam on the issue of respect for human rights and religious freedom in that country. once a poor communist country, vietnam violated human rights and suppressed freedom of religion. today, the same, though perhaps on a smaller scale, is making vietnam richer and seemingly moving away from communist ideology. we can't keep quiet!
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in march this year, 15 vietnamese decision-makers were sentenced to long prison terms and house arrest. this event, which has gone unreported in the world media, is a confirmation of the poor human rights situation in the country. in vietnam, basic civil liberties are being violated: freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly. there is no right to a fair and impartial trial. the decision-makers are locked up in mental institutions, just like in the former soviet union. ethnic minorities are persecuted, clergy are suppressed, people of many different faiths are persecuted. the european union cannot and should not tolerate this type of violation any longer. more importantly, we are vietnam's most important trading partner, which also benefits from the eu's tariff preferences system. we have measures at our disposal which may make the government of the socialist republic of vietnam more inclined to provide its citizens with basic civil guarantees. it's our duty.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after the temporary suspension of the policy of repression and restriction of political and civil rights in vietnam in 2006, we are witnessing a new wave of arrests that are "uncomfortable" for the authorities. vietnam has recently been granted permanent, normalized trade partner status with the us and a member state of the world trade organization. the economic opening of the country is not accompanied by the abandonment of the monopoly of power in favour of a democratic system. the repression of the united buddhist church in vietnam must be stopped and its existence officially recognized. call for the release of vietnamese political prisoners held for the lawful and peaceful exercise of their right to freedom of opinion, press and religion. the vietnamese authorities must comply with the recommendations of the un human rights council on the development of the country's legal system and respect for fundamental rights. as the european union is vietnam's largest trading partner and our aid to the country will amount to eur 304 million for the period 2007-2013, a review of the cooperation agreement already signed should be considered, as only economic sanctions can force vietnam to undertake political and institutional reforms leading to democracy and the rule of law.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's debate concerns vietnam, one of the still communist countries where human rights have been violated for many years. in vietnam, human rights and democracy defenders, religious leaders accused of alleged espionage, propaganda against the socialist republic or perceived threats to national security are imprisoned. after a period of decreasing repression in relation to the wto accession process, opposition parties, independent media and trade unions were banned. in vietnam, there is preemptive censorship, all media is controlled by the party. many people who are treated as political dissidents are placed under house arrest and subject to surveillance. children and adolescents are being brutally and ruthlessly indoctrinated. the efforts of international organizations and human rights defenders, as well as the resolutions that have been prepared, have not brought about any change. we support the resolution and call on the vietnamese authorities to respect human rights, release prisoners, and carry out reforms. but it seems that more radical action is needed.
commission. mr president, the commission shares the european parliament’s concern about the violation of human rights in vietnam. this affects, in particular, the exercise of freedom of expression, of association and of religion. however, we must view this in its full context. vietnam has made considerable progress in terms of economic and social rights. over the past decade, it has succeeded in lifting a significant part of its population out of absolute poverty and set the country firmly on a course of economic growth, whilst limiting the emergence of socioeconomic disparities within the population. this has been accompanied by some improvements in recent years in the situation as regards civil and political rights. for instance, new legislation relating to religious freedom, which has been adopted in the last three years, has softened some, but not all, of the tools used by the state to control religious organisations and thus allows non-organised groups to seek official recognition. this has already had a positive impact on the ground. among other things, some protestant denominations, such as baptists and mennonites, which had not been recognised in the past, have been able to register grassroots-level congregations. that said, the implementation of the new legislation remains uneven, and progress in the northern uplands in particular has been markedly slower than in parts of the central highlands and in lowland areas. moreover, some denominations seen as dissident by the regime, such as the unified buddhist church of vietnam, and some hoa hao and cao dai groups, remain illegal and face continued harassment. the climate has also improved for political dissidents in the past two years. a considerable number of high-profile activists were released in 2005 and 2006. last year also saw the emergence of some new parties and other groupings of activists within the country, which was unprecedented both in terms of the number of groups and of that of their adherents. the official reaction to this development was, initially, relatively low-key. however, this changed in early 2007, and in particular since mid-february. harassment of dissidents seems to have intensified, and scores of activists were arrested. a number of them have since been tried and sentenced to lengthy jail terms. this includes some well-known persons such as father nguyen van ly, and lawyers nguyen van dai and le thi cong nhan. we do not know whether this is a temporary reflex or something more deep-seated, but it is of grave concern to the commission. the eu’s relations with vietnam have developed dynamically in recent years, and the commission has taken every opportunity to press for continued improvement in the human rights situation, especially as regards prisoners of concern. the commission and eu member states’ representatives in hanoi have in particular followed the recent arrests and trials of activists with particular attention. eu diplomats were present at some of the trials as observers, and the eu reacted strongly to their sentencing. in its declaration of 15 may, it reiterated its plea to the government of vietnam to release all non-violent political activists exercising their rights to freedom of expression and association. the eu missions in hanoi have also requested that the vietnamese government allow them to visit dissidents in prison, in order to ascertain the conditions of their detention. the recent trials were also raised forcefully by commissioner ferrero-waldner in her bilateral meeting with vietnamese deputy prime minister khiem on 28 may 2007, on the margins of the asem ministerial meeting in hamburg. apart from high-level political contacts, the eu and vietnam have agreed on mechanisms to conduct a dialogue and exchange of views on human rights issues. a key instrument in this regard is the regular human rights dialogue between the eu missions in hanoi and the government of vietnam. the sub-group on cooperation in the areas of institution building, administrative reform, governance and human rights provides another opportunity for the commission to raise these issues. on all possible occasions, we have expressed our view that the arrest of non-violent political activists is incompatible with vietnam’s obligations under the international human rights instruments to which it has acceded. please rest assured that the commission will continue to use all instruments at its disposal to press the case in question, as well as, more generally, to encourage and support progress on human rights and religious freedom in vietnam. we also rely very much on the european parliament to continue to press for the improvement of human rights in vietnam.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place after the debate.
i promise i'll get to the bottom of this.
i'd like to inform you that i have received a request from the alde group to appoint bill newton dunn as a member of the committee on budgetary control. i see no reason why not. i consider the appointment confirmed.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results and other voting details are set out in the minutes.)
i'd like to make an oral amendment. in point c of the preamble, under the name tudor petrov-popa, delete the word petrov and leave tudor popa.
i now consider the vote closed.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to make a very clear reference to the report on which we voted this morning.
mr. postle, i'm sorry, but there are no explanations of vote at this time.
- i call a recess to the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 4.20 p.m.)
mr. chairman, please! a few months ago, the european parliament adopted a resolution condemning xenophobia and the rise of nationalism in europe. in this document, some countries, including poland, were treated harshly, disproportionately to the scale of the problem. of course, racial hatred is a matter that must be taken very seriously. i am therefore surprised that the european commission does not take firm action against the growing fascist parties in some countries. some of them even have elected representatives in regional governments. the militants of these parties are abusing foreigners in the streets and publicly calling for border checks. this is a major problem because it affects a large part of the countries of the so-called old union, which should have dealt with this problem long ago. and the community authorities point out even minor incidents to the new member states.
mr. chairman, please! the nazi german invasion of poland on september 1, 1939, was another act of violence against my homeland, in which 6 million poles died in 6 years of war, 17 percent of the then 35 million people. within the framework of the german-soviet agreement, two weeks later, on september 17, 1939, the soviet union also attacked poland, killing more than 22,000 representatives of the polish intelligentsia by shooting them in the back of the head and occupying us for many years. that's why the restoration of independence was the hope of millions of our countrymen. however, despite the lofty words and slogans of the eu about equality, non-discrimination, some german politicians and the media are attacking both my homeland, poles, the polish government, the catholic media, and especially radio maryja, which is evidence of the ongoing aggressive anti-polonization. on the anniversary of the aggression, i appeal on behalf of the dead and the living to stop the violence, which sometimes resembles the implementation of plans that failed to achieve during the wars.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families of all the victims of the disaster in greece and elsewhere. i feel for those people. i was hit by a flood myself ten years ago, so i know what it means. disasters will happen, i'm afraid. the creation of a european rapid reaction force is all the more important in this situation. i'm a big supporter of the formation of a new group as soon as possible. it is puzzling that we should agree almost without objection to the creation of further european agencies, even though we already have dozens of these bureaucratic creations, and where human life is at stake, we are still in doubt. it is time to put an end to them and, like the un blue helmets, to create european red helmets or white helmets to defend not against people but against nature, which is still very dangerous.
mr. chairman, please! last friday, polish trade unionists from the gdańsk shipyard protested outside the european commission in brussels. in july, the european commission issued an ultimatum giving poland one month to present plans to reduce the shipyard's production capacity. the commission requests the closure of two of the three ramps, otherwise the gdańsk plant will have to reimburse the public aid received from the polish government after 1 may 2004. according to the eu commissioners, the commission's objective is not to close the yard but to modernise it, but such a serious reduction in production capacity, the closure of two ramps, would mean the loss of profitability of the yard and, in practice, the elimination of many jobs and, consequently, the collapse of the yard. and the gdańsk shipyard is not just a simple shipbuilding plant that employs many people, but also one of the most important symbols of the modern history of poland and of a united europe. it's the birthplace of the solidarity movement. as the european parliament, we should appeal to the european commission to find a good solution to this situation, aimed in particular at the welfare of the plant and the workers. as a voice of european society, we should express our solidarity with the workers of the shipyard, demanding a solution that ensures both the stability of the shipyard and respect for the symbols of modern european history.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in taking part in the debate on better lawmaking in the european union on behalf of the uen group, i would like to draw attention to the following points. first, the authors of the report support a better lawmaking process aimed at making union law more effective, efficient, coherent and transparent, which, in my view, should be carried out under the following conditions:- the council, the commission and the european parliament must act together on this matter;- a broad and open consultation of all interested parties, including - i would like to stress this in particular - businesses, local governments and non-governmental organisations, should be carried out on this matter;- the responsibility of the community institutions for the lawmaking process should be increased and the overall transparency of the process improved;- any change in the law that aims to simplify it must, however, take into account equally the social, environmental and economic considerations as well as the health and safety of the legal process concerned;- it should not lead to a lowering of the standards of law in the union. secondly, the authors also point out that the draft legislation should avoid vague and unnecessary language and use simple and understandable language, while maintaining precise terminology and legal certainty, so that union law can be understood by almost 500 million citizens. thirdly, it is welcome that the 2007 spring summit of the council of the union adopted a decision to reduce the administrative burden arising from community law by 25% by 2012. it is only to be hoped that this objective will be more realistic than the lisbon objectives. fourthly, it should also be underlined that the reports also suggested alternative solutions to the introduction of new legislation, such as self-regulation or mutual recognition of national rules, or even the option of not taking any legislative action. all of them deserve special attention in a situation of enormous inflation of eu law.
madam president! in recent years, the european commission has taken a welcome interest in the quality of community legislation, both in its transparency and accessibility on the one hand, and in its effectiveness and positive impact on citizens and businesses on the other. better law increases the benefits of modern and effective legislation while minimising the costs of its implementation. the commission's communication of 14 november last year on the evaluation of the eu's better governance programme and the target of reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012 is a first important step towards tackling the problem at both european and national level. the communication also stresses the need for the council and the european parliament to provide regular assessments of the impact of major amendments to proposals and to give greater weight to proposals for simplification of the law in the course of codification and repeal of obsolete legal acts. in this context, it is of the utmost importance to establish a special council for impact assessment and to strengthen the implementation of community legislation through preventive action by member states from the earliest stages of the application of community law. the european parliament's key role in the further work towards better law should be above all to engage both in the interinstitutional debate and as a co-legislator in the adoption of legislation falling within the scope of such a process. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the new rules on comitology, which strengthen the control of the european parliament and the council over the commission's executive powers, thus contributing to the simplification of community legislation. as regards the role of the commission, the commission should require, rather than merely call upon, the member states to draw up correlation tables, in particular to facilitate the verification of the transposition process of directives in each country. it is also necessary to require that the commission introduce clear and transparent language in its legislative proposals, while maintaining precise terminology and legal clarity.
madam president! better regulation is of great importance for harmonising action in the european union. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their very good reports: katalina lévai, bert doorn, giuseppe gargani, manuel medina ortedze. in many national parliaments, and in ours, there is a tendency to legislate on as many issues as possible. in many cases, this is because of the way people think that making a rule will solve the problem. and we want to take into account all the parties' reasons, the lobbyists, the vested interests. legislation becomes less transparent and accessible to citizens, businesses and administrations. they become voluminous, opaque and difficult to transpose in all countries. better law-making should use legislative instruments to achieve the objectives set out in the treaty. co-regulation and self-regulation can complement legislative measures, but only if these methods offer an improvement of a scope equivalent to or greater than that of legislation. the lack of legal coverage and better regulation are not new problems, but require the quickest possible action. assessment of the legislative effects, preservation of terminological precision and legal certainty, reduction of abbreviations and overly lengthy preambles should contribute to better, more modern, rational and effective legislation. the measures taken will significantly reduce the administrative costs for parliament, the parties and the users of the law. another issue is the application of the 'soft law' based on community practice. it does not provide full legal protection, is not binding and raises legal concerns. 'soft law' cannot replace a legal act in areas where the community has legislative powers. the issues raised in the papers are of great practical importance and require further rapid action. the success of better regulation will depend largely on the european commission, with the involvement of parliament and the council.
madam president! dura lex - sed lex, is one of those latin maxims that i'm sure most lawyers know very well. hard law, but law. today we're focusing on a soft law that sets a direction, but it's not a legally binding act. it shall express political declarations, resolutions, council declarations and presidency conclusions, but shall not be binding. however, it may also be used by the european court of justice for the interpretation of the provisions. it is therefore a law, although the court states that it is not intended to be binding even on those to whom it is addressed. in practice, however, national courts are obliged to take the recommendations into account when resolving disputes. they help to interpret national law which has been adopted to ensure its application or to supplement binding community legislation. the rapporteur is very critical of non-binding legislation, and in particular of the commission's misapplication of it. stresses that, where the community has legislative power, it would be appropriate for an act to be adopted by institutions such as the council or the parliament, taking into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality; i agree with the rapporteur that only by adopting legislation within the framework of the institutional procedures and those mentioned in the treaty will it be possible to guarantee the enforceability and enforceability of the law.
madam president! i welcomed the fact that, for the first time, initiatives on simplification of the law were included in the commission's legislative and work programme for the current year. simplifying the regulatory environment and ensuring the clarity and effectiveness of legislation are essential to achieving the objective of better law-making, which has a significant impact on the level of economic growth and employment, thus making a valuable contribution to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. it should also be borne in mind that in many cases the current model of community lawmaking has created in the societies of the member states an image of a distant bureaucracy, uninterested in solving problems and making life easier for ordinary citizens, which is exploited by eurosceptics. of course, simplification cannot only take place at european level but also at national level, so that the benefits of community simplification are not squandered by national regulations. i strongly support the call for the european commission to monitor this process at national level as well. however, simplifying the law does not guarantee a better quality of law. we need to ask ourselves whether 'soft law' is an effective instrument in a community context. as we all know, the current 'soft law' model imposes an obligation to transpose into national systems, and this not only entails higher costs, but also has a serious impact on the clarity and effectiveness of legislation at the national level. moreover, this creates serious problems for the judiciary by extending the waiting time caused by the need to refer questions for a preliminary ruling to the european court of justice. i therefore agree with the statement that 'soft law' is too often an ambiguous and ineffective instrument which can have a detrimental effect on community legislation and on the institutional balance, and should not be used as a substitute for desirable but unadopted law. an effective system for assessing the impact of legal acts is an integral part of ensuring the high quality and effectiveness of community or national law. i think there is still a lot to be done in this area and i would like to stress in this debate the importance of the full independence of the institution responsible for carrying out impact assessments. better lawmaking must also involve the european parliament both in the interinstitutional debate and as a co-legislator.
madam president! it is very gratifying to see that we are paying more and more attention to the quality of good european community legislation. legislation shall be examined in the context of its transparency, accessibility and effectiveness. however, it should be noted that better lawmaking covers all aspects of the legislative process, from initial conception to implementation and enforcement. so when we talk about better regulation, we also have to look at each level of administration. the administrative apparatus and all the burdens that go with it must not be allowed to grow unnecessarily. this is not only true of european administrations, but also of those at the level of the member states. both the european union and the member states should therefore embark on an ambitious strategy to reduce administrative burdens, given that these burdens originate in both european and national legislation. member states should instead develop and implement mechanisms and programmes to simplify administrative procedures and to ensure more systematic assessment of the economic and social impact of the application of community law.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am very grateful for the broad consensus that has emerged in this debate, but i would like to clarify a few things again. first, better regulation is not deregulation. i must fight it with all my might. this is not a deregulation commission, but, as i said, european integration is based on the law and not on the abolition of the law. better regulation is exactly what the name says: it is about making it better, more modern, simpler, more transparent, with more consideration above all for the needs of small and mediumsized enterprises, on which we often impose the same burdens as on large corporations, and that is unfair. i would like to confirm to mrs frassoni that this is not about lowering standards. if you look at the many initiatives that the commission has put forward so far, you will find that in no single case has the commission proposed to lower a standard or to weaken the level of european integration that has been achieved. it is always a question of achieving the objectives which you - the european parliament - consider politically necessary by simpler, more modern and cheaper means. i want to make this explicitly clear. there is a great deal of confusion about the numbers. i'm a little surprised. so, as far as simplification is concerned, it is an ongoing programme that is constantly being supplemented. the commission has so far 143 simplification initiatives under way, of which about half have already been adopted; 67 initiatives have already been adopted. these initiatives naturally always cover a whole range of basic acts with subsequent legislation. so if we say we have 143 simplification initiatives, that means that several thousand pieces of legislation are affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is quite clear that after 50 years of european integration, something like this must be done. the question of cost is a different matter. mr helmer's assertions do not become true by being repeated over and over again. he's probably not here, but i'd like to make this clear once and for all. administrative burdens on businesses are defined as costs incurred by european businesses due to documentation, statistical and information requirements and as a consequence of european, national or regional legislation. they amount to a total of 3.5% of european gross national product, but for all three levels: european, national and regional. we have already seen how this is divided: about 35% of these costs come directly from european legislation, 15% come from national implementation of european legislation and the remaining 50% are purely national. it is, of course, wrong for mr helmer to say that the eu is costing the economy 350 billion euros, that the benefits of the single market are not so great, and that the costs to the eu would exceed the benefits of the single market. i am sorry, but this is a farmer's game and it is aimed at the stupidity of the people, because it ignores the fact that if there is no eu law, there is national law. in the united kingdom, too, we know that there is a particularly high level of unemployment. it would certainly be more expensive. i will give you just one example of the enormous simplifications and savings that can be made in european legislation. we had 1 400 different regulations in 27 member states in the field of technical regulations for radio equipment in europe. this means that a company in the uk that made certain radio equipment had to know 1,400 national regulations. this parliament followed the commission's proposal and adopted a regulation which merged these 1 400 regulations into one. it is not possible to calculate the cost savings for the company, but it is obvious. the 25% reduction is absolutely achievable. we have provided the 10 fast-track actions with the proposal to show that it is technically relatively simple. all you have to do is to look at the existing regulations to see what statistical, information and documentation obligations there are and whether we need them at all - given the practice we have now - to that extent. the result is often that they are not needed at all or that modern information and communication technologies make it all much easier. we shall reach that 25%, and it will lead to a productivity gain of 1.5% of gross national product for the european economy. this has a macroeconomic dimension, of course, because there are not many economic programmes in the european union that have a positive growth effect of 1.5%. i would like to say this in passing: if all goes well, we will also achieve a very high growth effect when the new transatlantic cooperation removal of trade barriers in transatlantic trade is successfully concluded. we have attached importance to this clarification so that we know what we are talking about. i would like to emphasize all that has been said here about the importance of impact assessment. this is the a and o, and the commission's rule is: no new proposal without a comprehensive impact assessment and no new proposal without an impact assessment which has been examined by the impact assessment board. if this has been violated on occasion, i believe that the european parliament has the absolute right, if not the duty, to criticise it. without an impact assessment, the legislator is unable to assess the actual consequences of his action. even if an impact assessment shows that a new proposal has a cost to the economy or to the citizens, this does not mean that the measure is not implemented, because there are things more important than costs. when it comes to preserving our environment, fighting climate change, reducing our dependence on fossil fuels or the health of our citizens, it's not a matter of cost. then we must do what is necessary. the commission feels, however, that it is its duty to give parliament full information on the social, environmental and economic consequences of any new proposal. that's why impact assessment is so crucial. we shall examine very carefully the proposals made here. the most important thing that has been said several times in this debate is the following, and i fully agree with it: all this can only succeed as a joint project. it cannot succeed if we see it as a conflict between the institutions, but only if all three institutions, parliament, the council and the commission, want it together and declare it their priority together. only then will it work.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 4 september 2007.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the report on the activities of the european employment services in 2004-05: towards a single european labour market, by jan andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (b6-0136/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i promise not to talk about cyberspace and the opportunities for central and eastern europeans to surf it, as my predecessor, mr bushill-matthews, did. the draft resolution lauds the eures european employment services. however, we should be aware that for some observers eures is an example of excessive euro-bureaucracy. a colleague from lithuania told me just now that only 8% of lithuanians who go abroad for work have used the eures instruments. it's really very little. perhaps it is not an excess of bureaucracy, but it would be more obvious if the european labour market were finally fully open. europeans would then naturally find work, not necessarily through eures. it is clear that all forms of informing, including institutional informing, about job vacancies for seasonal or temporary workers should be encouraged. however, this should concern first and foremost citizens of the member states of the union and only secondarily citizens of third countries, including those cooperating with the union under the european union's neighbourhood policy. two years and two months ago, when we adopted the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, we stressed the need to remove obstacles to the movement of workers within europe under the treaties. it is a pity that germany, austria and some other member states have not heeded this call and continue to apply - contrary to the fundamental freedoms of the european communities, to which my colleague referred - barriers to access to the labour market. it will happen eventually, but it's a waste of time. so let's talk about hic et nunc, about the big picture, not the half measures.
mr. chairman, please! in this debate, i would like to draw attention to two issues. first, one of the fundamental freedoms on which the european common market is based, namely the free movement of labour, must be fully realised. for workers from the new member states, it is severely restricted, for example by germany or austria, which obviously weakens the mobility of workers within the european union. secondly, significant support is needed, especially for the new member states, to enable employment rates in these countries to rise. for example, in my country, poland, the rate is 51% for men and only 46% for women, whereas in the united states and the scandinavian countries, for example, it is already over 70%.
member of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i think the debate has clearly shown that eures is a good instrument, that it has its capacity, that it is useful and that it really helps the free movement of labour, mobility, it helps people to orientate themselves to the market, to the european union, to orientate themselves to their rights. on the other hand, it was also clear from the discussion that we have not yet reached an absolute state and that eures needs to be developed and progressed in its further development. the debate has raised ideas which i will not discuss here, because they are ideas of an organisational and specific nature. and i think that each one of them needs expert judgment in terms of whether they're applicable as inspiration or not. however, it is clear that the debate shows that the commission's basic idea of developing this portal and the european parliament's basic idea of the function and development of this portal are more or less the same and give us the opportunity for really effective and good long-term cooperation and mutual inspiration. i would also like to emphasize that the debate raised a number of issues that went beyond the scope of this parliamentary question, i.e. the problems of the laws of individual countries, and these are the issues which i have noted and will continue to address.
the next item is the report by jacques toubon, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the review of the single market: overcoming barriers and inefficiencies through better implementation and enforcement (2007/2024 (ini)) (a6-0295/2007).
mr. chairman, please! the internal market, one of the pillars of the european union, is constantly being transformed. we see it every day, and we see how it affects the lives of ordinary people. the deepening of european integration is directly linked to the deepening of the economies of the individual member states. that is why it is so important for all citizens that the internal market, through decisive action, removes further barriers and obstacles to the flow of people, capital, goods and services. mr toubon's report is a good one, pointing out the areas where eu legislation and policy should focus in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it draws attention to the many issues that should be the priority in our work, and above all to building the confidence of citizens, both consumers and businesses, in the internal market. i strongly support the argument put forward in mr toubon's report that national parliaments should be involved in parliament's legislative work, which would bring the union much closer to our citizens. this is a very valuable clue. finally, as a former businesswoman, i agree with all the recommendations in the report to eliminate administrative burdens for businesses. only through consistent, pro-market and liberal policies will the union's economy be able to compete with the economies of the united states, china and india. i congratulate the rapporteur on a report which is well written and whose main strength is its balanced content. i would even say that it is a sort of supranational roadmap of the priorities of our work on the internal market.
member of the commission. mr president, i am dealing with this file on behalf of my colleague, mrs kroes, the competition commissioner. the commission is not seeking the closure of gdansk shipyard. gdansk shipyard has played a crucial part in european history and in the struggle for freedom and a reunited europe. we would like to see the yard undertaking a genuine far-reaching restructuring so as to become a successful company capable of competing on its own merits in the eu and world shipbuilding markets. in the last decades, the shipbuilding industry has restructured all around europe. the commission is well aware that for many yards and regions this has been a difficult process. many shipyards were closed and the shipbuilding capacity had to be reduced. wherever national state aid has been used for this restructuring, the commission has had to exercise its responsibility under the treaty to ensure that the level playing field among shipbuilders in the european union was not distorted. the commission now has the same responsibility concerning its intervention in the gdansk case. the conditions under which state aid for ailing companies is compatible with the treaty are clearly set out in the community guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulties. the proper restructuring of gdansk shipyard has been postponed for many years; public money has not been used to create viable jobs, but to keep alive a company that would under normal market conditions have ceased to exist. the commission's goals here are three-fold. first, to ensure that the restructuring of gdansk shipyard leads to its own long-term viability. it could possibly mean scaling down its activities, but would eventually lead to the emergence of a smaller but more efficient shipyard capable of standing on its own feet. second, to limit the distortion of the level playing field and any harm to european competitors caused by state intervention, the yard's production capacity has to be reduced. also, a significant contribution to the restructuring plan must be made from own resources, including the sale of assets that are not essential to the shipyard's survival, or from external financing at market conditions. third, to ensure equal treatment. shipyards in other countries as well as other polish shipyards, have had to reduce considerably their capacity. gdansk shipyard cannot be an exception. structural funds and other eu assistance have been used by other member states to tackle the difficult transition period and to support the affected regions. we have repeatedly reminded the polish authorities of this possibility. the commission has been, and will remain, in close and constructive dialogue with the polish authorities to seek a way forward in which the conditions for compatibility of the state aid are met and the state aid can be approved. that process is ongoing. gdansk shipyard deserves a viable future by developing a new and sustainable position in the competitive shipbuilding industry of the eu.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a member of the european parliament from gdańsk, i feel a double responsibility: firstly, for the fate of the 3000 jobs and the plant, which is a symbol in poland, and secondly, for us all to follow the principles of the rational economy on which the european community is based and which has brought prosperity to millions of europeans. so i believe that today's debate will not be a political demonstration. there's too much politics around gdańsk shipyard. it has been overly politically exploited. i trust that this will be a step towards finding optimal solutions. i also believe that this was the intention of the radical left in parliament, which provoked a debate, but i would like to remind you that it was not the dreamers of a system of social happiness, but the practitioners of real socialism, called post-communists in our country, who twice, in an act of political revenge, liquidated the gdańsk shipyard, which undermined its economic credibility and is one of the sources of today's problems. i was a witness and a humble participant in the mass uprising of august 1980 that gave birth to solidarity, later a movement of 10 million people. i know that among the 3,000 workers at the shipyard today are those who risked their lives in the name of human dignity, human rights and other values enshrined in the european union's flags. they did it with courage, but they did it with caution, without violence, and that's why this path, without violence, without the tools of terror, can be a roadmap for us in the 21st century. and of course, it would be desirable that these great workers' groups, the shipyards, the mines, the ironworks, which were the backbone of solidarity, gave it power incomparably greater than the lone dissidents in other countries, that these groups now become models of economic success in the free market. but it is very difficult, impossible in a short period of time, as the experience of the large heavy industry centres in western europe shows, which took decades to transform into the new economic quality. especially in this industry, in the shipbuilding industry, which faces competition from the far east, korea, china, vietnam, where not only the low cost of labor is decisive, but above all the various open and camouflaged forms of state interventionism. i would like to see this complexity also reach the european commission, because if it is not taken into account, the result is a cluster of frustrations and the basis of political populism in our country. i can understand both the frustration of shipbuilders who have a sense of historical merit and who, as they say, are confronted with a heartless bureaucracy. on the other hand, the frustration of the european commission, which is faced with a particularly unruly, uncooperative workplace where many authorities have broken their teeth. i know that the workers of this shipyard should not be punished for the incompetent, even improper handling of these matters by the current government team. i also know that the basis of a settlement should be a long-term vision, not a hastily written plan. this long-term vision is an investor who will equip the shipyard with modern technology instead of the outdated and currently controversial ramps. and i believe that today's debate is a step in that direction.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's a good thing we're having a debate about the gdańsk shipyard. two immediate circumstances of this debate are important here: first, the anniversaries of the signing of the agreements of 30 august in szczecin and 31 august in gdańsk, and second, a very important circumstance, the current financial condition of gdańsk shipyard. gdańsk shipyard is a symbol of historical changes in poland, but also the beginning of great changes on a european and world scale. this is where it started. it was also to gdańsk shipyard in the 1980s that the leaders of the free world came, encouraging perseverance in the fight. it was also here that the struggle for human rights, for freedom of speech, for free trade unions, for human dignity, for development in the shape of the then european economic community was fought. so it's a living monument that we should be proud of, but it's also a shipyard - perhaps above all today it's a shipbuilding company. the shipyard workers in brussels last week said that they were not talking about historical achievements, but about economic matters, about their lives, about their jobs. well, shipbuilding is one of the global industries - ships can be easily bought in asia, not necessarily in europe. in view of the above, commissioner, we should not focus on so-called fair competition within the union alone in the competition provisions. a global approach is needed, i.e. looking at the european union shipbuilding industry in a global competitive environment and then considering all the conditions for the activities of shipyards within the european union, including gdańsk shipyard or szczecin shipyard. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. so, privatization as a means to an end - yes, privatization as an end to be accomplished by a certain date - at this point there may be some doubt. i therefore ask the polish government to cooperate closely with the commission and the yard's management to manage the company efficiently.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that the european parliament is considering this matter today and my gratitude for this initiative. i would like to thank commissioner mccreevy for his statement today and say that it is very important that we think of the european union as a community. when we enter the european parliament building, we pass a statue that says l'europe a un coeur - europe has a heart. in political terms, this means the strength of the european social model. it was 27 years ago that the workers of the gdańsk shipyard came out to fight against the communist system, they came out to fight for bread and freedom, they wanted to restore the meaning of human work, they wanted to free the economy from the state monopoly. today, this historic shipyard faces a dramatic order from the european commission to reduce its production by two thirds and, in any case, to close two of its berths. we think it's appropriate in this situation to first limit the closure of the ramp to one and thus restore the chance of profitability of the yard. secondly, to give time to rationalize the management of the yard, because the current management leaves much to be desired. to make it profitable and to keep 3,000 workers in their jobs. thirdly, remember that the gdańsk shipyard is one of the great sites of european memory and a testimony to the fact that social solidarity is one of the constitutive values of the european union. this is a decision that the european institutions cannot ignore. the pragmatism of our actions must go hand in hand with the understanding that we are building a union for the people, by the people. the strength of european design depends on how innovative and competitive we are, but also how sensitive we are to the plight of the weak and the less fortunate. and that's the point, i think, of the liberal message of freedom. i would also like to refer to a memory that i have: generations of europeans in all the countries of the european union who wore the solidarity badges in their lapel with pride and hope. there are people in this room. if so, this is the generation that is building european unity and should be aware of the historical significance of the gdańsk shipyard.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i accompanied the workers from the shipyard during the talks with commissioner kroes and commissioner špidla. i was also with them when they stood before the european commission and appealed to europe to help them. today gdańsk shipyard is out of financial trouble, starting to work with profit. it would be a great misunderstanding if at this point, severe financial constraints prevented it from making a financial profit and preventing the people working there and all of us from being successful. i would also like to emphasize the historical aspect. we would not be 27 countries in a united europe today, a europe free from the threat of nuclear war, if it were not for solidarity, which was born in the gdańsk shipyard. that's what everyone needs to remember today, including the politicians sitting here. i would also like to point out the complete agreement on this matter, regardless of political differences, of all the speakers who have spoken on this matter so far and who i think will speak on this matter. that's got to be considered.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european commission's suggestion that two of the three shipyard docks in gdańsk shipyard be closed under threat of public aid being reimbursed is a big misunderstanding. many elements have not been considered, including the damage done to the shipyard by political vandals and dishonest businessmen who are lurking in the city center for property and land. the unfair privatisation of the shipyard is the subject of legal proceedings. the commission has no reliable information on this. the shipyard has already been restructured, thousands of workers have been laid off, 7 of the 10 slipways have been closed. the yard is currently enjoying positive financial results. closing two ramps will destroy that work and that effort. the huge public aid received by the shipyards in the old member states has bypassed gdańsk shipyard, this does not create a level playing field, nor does it take into account the difference in the methodology for calculating the profitability of the shipyards. the strike on gdańsk shipyard also undermines the shipbuilding industry in the european union as a whole. i would remind you that the union's share of world shipbuilding is three times lower than that of south korea alone, which is subsidising the industry. this indicates a lack of concern on the part of the commission for the long-term economic interests of the union. the commission's intentions are contrary to the objectives of the lisbon strategy. the gdańsk shipbuilders fought for solidarity, which does not mean a brutal game of eliminating competitors. solidarity is not a slogan, it's not compassion, but responsibility and honesty, it's standing up for the truth. is the european union living up to these values today?
mr president, the gdańsk shipyard is of particular importance to poland, not only as a workplace but also as a political symbol. it was tried to destroy in communist times. the political commitment of the crew and the support of the entire nation meant that the rulers of the time could not eliminate it. the crew is aware of the special importance of this facility and responds to threats as in those days - protests. it would be very bad if a facility that had defended itself against communist rule had to fall under the weight of european union directives. the most important thing is that the yard remains a yard, that it belongs to the shipbuilding industry and not to someone else. the reduction of the number of ramps from three to one proposed by the commission would deprive the yard of its capacity to be viable in shipbuilding in the long term. at least two ramps are needed to continue the profitable shipyard business. poland respects the financial rules in force, but we know that shipbuilding is no longer such a sensitive sector in the union economy that the aid to gdańsk shipyard could distort the market. the commission must take account of the specific nature of gdańsk shipyard, it must treat it in a special way. the symbol of the struggle for independence from communist rule - gdańsk shipyard - must remain a shipyard.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the gdańsk shipyard is a great symbol of europe, the place where polish workers, led by lech wałęsa, in august 1988 began a strike for freedom and justice. the shipyard became a symbol of the struggle for union, political and civil rights for the labour movement worldwide. i would like to stress the importance of the initiative of president wurtz, which allows a debate to take place today in the european parliament on the risk of the collapse of the gdańsk shipyard. i first spoke out in defense of gdańsk shipyard as an activist of the underground "solidarity" in november 1988, when mieczysław rakowski's government put the shipyard into liquidation under the pretext of poor economic results. unfortunately, the gdańsk shipyard has also become a symbol of the collapse of heavy industry and the vulnerability of workers and trade unions to this process, a model example of all that is referred to as casino capitalism. there's not much left of that proud shipyard, the cradle of solidarity. solidarity governments after 1989 didn't care about the yard. the factory became a place of market speculation on the one hand and demagoguery and populism on the other. after joining the european union, polish shipyards received public aid from the state. gdańsk shipyard has started restructuring and demonstrates that it is able to operate profitably. the current demands of the european commission to close two of the three shipyard's shipyard docks will lead to the loss of profitability of the yard, resulting in unemployment and the tragedy of many workers' families. i call on the european parliament, on the 27th anniversary of the signing of the august agreements, to consider this matter. commissioner, let us consider a sensible compromise that would reconcile the principles of the single market, which the european commission is defending, with the interests of the 3,000 workers in the shipyard. let's save the gdańsk shipyard!
mr. chairman, please! when the commission talks about gdańsk shipyard, in all its pragmatism, it forgets something much more important than money - history. if it had not been for the shipyard, neither i nor many other central and eastern european members would be here today. if it had not been for the changes initiated at the shipyard, the whole of europe would look very different today - a europe built on values such as democracy, freedom, equality and respect for human rights, for which the gdańsk shipyard is a symbol. it was the strikes at this shipyard that started the dismantling of communism. the european union is a symbol, and you have only to look at where we are and remember that in the name of post-war reconciliation between the two nations, we are able to spend over 200 million euros a year on a monthly trip to strasbourg. why not also support the gdańsk shipyard, which symbolizes the end of the cold war and the liberation of all central and eastern europe from the yoke of communism? so i am appealing from this place: let's not let the shipyard fall, let's not destroy the cradle of 'solidarity', let's not convert the historical importance of this place into the euro.
mr. chairman, please! no one denies that the rules of the common market and competition are the driving force behind europe's economy, which guarantees its rapid development. the factories that don't meet these challenges will be in trouble, including being shut down, and it's obvious that the workers in those factories will protest. but the protest of polish shipyards last week should be seen in a different light. they did not come to brussels to complain, to evoke sympathy or to ask for money. they wanted to protest against the decision, which they felt was another death sentence for their shipyard, and which would send at least a thousand workers to the dock. so what's the problem? the shipyard owners who were in brussels want equal opportunities and the commission's decision to be based on reliable, verified information, because the reality shows that the shipyard is coming to terms with itself, that it finally has a chance to be a profitable enterprise. and yet eu law allows for additional assistance in similar situations. we have examples in the treaty of east german states receiving such aid. i also want to emphasize that this was not a protest by the polish government, but a protest by the citizens of the european union shipbuilders, who have the right to do so, who organized themselves and came to draw our attention to the fact that something bad is happening around them. and we should appreciate that, because that's how we build civil society. and lastly, their presence in brussels also shows that they have great confidence in the european union, and this confidence is expressed by the whole of polish society, and this confidence of polish society in the european union should not be let down by us or by the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! last week, a delegation of polish shipbuilders arrived in brussels to protest against the commission's decision to close two shipyards, which would have resulted in mass layoffs. the shipyards consider that the commission's approach to their yard is too rigid and unfair. after talks with commissioners kroes and špidla, the shipbuilders returned to poland with high hopes. as announced, the commission should thoroughly re-examine the situation of the yard. i would like to point out that since poland joined the european union, about one million people have left my country in search of work abroad, and the number is still growing. the commission's decision to maintain the measure will inevitably lead to the dismissal of thousands of employees at the plant, which is currently doing well in the competitive eu market. already there are suspicions of commission bias and support for another shipbuilding lobby. in the midst of a multitude of often inconsistent laws, there is no doubt that a mutually satisfactory solution can be found. i therefore join the call to change the decision that is damaging the shipyard and to treat gdańsk shipyard not only as a simple shipbuilding plant but also as a national and european symbol.
in writing. for several years now, we have opened the first autumn session of parliament with a debate on the tragic consequences of the natural disasters that hit europe in the summer. droughts, heat waves, floods and fires are devastating europe. if we add to this the industrial disasters caused by natural forces, we get a picture of a europe where citizens are rendered helpless by the destructive forces of nature. more than 60 people have died in fires in greece this year, many families have lost their livelihoods, and thousands of hectares of forests and olive groves have been burned. this is a tragic balance! i know what a tragedy like this means. my country has also been plagued by floods, and we have long counted the victims of tragic mining accidents. i therefore wish to express my sympathy and european solidarity to the families and loved ones of the victims of the greek tragedy and to the people of the regions affected by the fires. at the same time, i believe that europe cannot remain passive in the face of such events! and it is not just eu financial aid that will help rebuild the regions affected by the disaster. first of all, we must develop a more effective preventive and warning mechanism within the union, which, even if it does not prevent a disaster, will certainly help to reduce its scale. and while it is the responsibility of each country to protect its citizens from disasters, there is a need to monitor national crisis management policies more effectively and perhaps also to create joint rapid response forces in the event of such disasters.
mr. chairman, please! we have adopted a report today, in which we have reviewed the functioning of the union's single market. the union market, which consists of the free movement of persons, services, capital and goods, has contributed significantly to economic growth, employment growth and the competitiveness of the european economy. however, in order to make it work better, existing barriers and unnecessary regulations should be removed. unfortunately, some countries still restrict the flow of workers from the new member states. it is also important to inform our citizens, investors and businesses of the benefits and opportunities of the single market. the single market a market without borders or restrictions is the fundamental pillar of the european union. the single market brings our community together and consolidates it by introducing transparent competition rules and by encouraging the development of enterprises. the single market must, however, take account of social cohesion, employment, environmental and consumer protection. the measures to reduce the administrative burden in the union are of particular importance.
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to present to you today the proposal to amend the directive on the inland transport of dangerous goods. this transport of dangerous goods accounts for about 8% of all transport of goods, or nearly one million operations per day. we must guarantee the free movement of dangerous goods and intermodality in national and international services, while ensuring safety to protect our environment, citizens and workers in the sector. the proposal aims to update four commission directives and decisions on the transport of dangerous goods by merging them into a single legislative act. this is a significant simplification of community law in this area. the commission has also proposed extending the scope of community rules to the shipbuilding industry, for which there are currently no community rules. although this is a minor form of inland transport, an accident on a waterway can have serious consequences. the existence of a single set of rules for all transport of dangerous goods on inland waterways will help to reduce these risks. finally, the proposal covers both international and domestic transport. that is the aim of the proposal for which mr liberadzki is rapporteur. before leaving the floor to debate, i would like to thank your rapporteur and the committee on transport and tourism for their support of the commission's proposal.
the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, i am pleased to report that we are firstly pleased that the commission has tabled the draft directive under discussion today. we fully agree with the commissioner that the proposal is a unification and, on the other hand, a reduction in the number of regulations on the transport of dangerous goods. secondly, we also agree that this regulation can be of great importance for transport safety and also for the quality of life of citizens. finally, the regulations we want to adopt, and in fact to merge with many of the sources that have existed so far, by eliminating the number of these sources, are based on the recommendations developed by the un on the transport of dangerous goods by road, the transport of dangerous goods by rail and inland waterways, which together account for more than 110 billion tonne-kilometres a year on the scale of our community. i would like to point out that the committee on transport and tourism has almost unanimously adopted this report, considering it to be important and necessary, introducing a new quality, i.e. extending the regulations on the transport of dangerous goods by passenger trains, and regulating the moments when member states may, for reasons other than strict safety, introduce certain derogations from the generally applicable rules, and regulating the way in which these derogations are introduced and how they are to be applied at community level. i would ask everyone here to support the amendments which are being discussed and introduced, and in particular amendment no 44, where, at the request of the council, we are introducing the concept of wagons and inland waterway vessels in addition to vehicles, in order to avoid any possible misunderstandings - i would ask you to vote in favour. i also wanted to ask you to vote for amendment 45, which after much discussion was worked out as a good compromise. this is the case with article 1 (3) (b) where we insert the words: when justified or justified, of course, the routes can be specified and the means of transport used can be specified. that way, the 16th amendment could fall flat, or we could vote against it. i would also like to ask for a vote against amendments nos 46 and 47 in two cases. why would you do that? it seems that these regulations are already in the text, that they are often understood per ipso, that they could only over-extend the regulation being introduced. and as a way to end, i'd like to thank you for working with my fellow shadow reporters, because it's been a good working relationship. i would like to thank the council and the commission in particular. both the german and the portuguese presidencies of the council. we've been together, like, five times on business. there are no significant differences between us, and those that did exist were resolved. it was, in my opinion, a model of cooperation.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft new directive on the regulation of the inland transport of dangerous goods is the necessary provision. it consolidates existing eu rules into a single legal act and extends them to include water transport. the inclusion of international rules on the transport of dangerous goods in the draft directive makes it a single document of international scope. the new directive also allows for a certain degree of national consideration, dictated by economic needs and the state of the roads. an example of this is the use of megaliners. the amendments tabled are essentially technical and do not raise any objections, with the exception of amendments nos 46 to 47. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr liberadzki, for his constructive contribution to the report. uen considers that the directive is a response to the expectations of the interested parties.
mr. chairman, please! i'm sorry to say this is a good report, congratulations, inés. i would like to raise two specific points: firstly, i would also like to express my satisfaction with the rapporteur's intention to examine by the european commission the possibility of establishing a single transport document for all means of transport. it's a very interesting announcement that can promote interoperability, it can promote multimodality, it doesn't require investment, it can integrate us very strongly. the second point, which i consider particularly important, is the establishment of a system of training and retraining in the field of transport and logistics, in order to create a common system for the recognition of professional qualifications. this is point 17. i would certainly like to support this concept for the reasons stated above. and the third thing i would like to mention is the schengen area, and to look more closely at how the new member states will implement its rules.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the spring of 2004, when the union adopted the relevant legislation, the benefits to civil aviation of the organisation of air traffic rules and of military-civilian cooperation in this field were discussed. the european system at that time was very fragmented, leading to bottlenecks in space. this has resulted in reduced safety, delays for about 20% of aircraft, increased fuel consumption, and negative environmental impacts. are you feeling better today, commissioner? what caused the so-called 'functional air blocks' to become virtually inoperative? is it the fault of individual member states? or the inadequacy of our right to the demands of life? it is worthwhile to answer these questions quickly and take corrective action now, rather than waiting until the end of 2008. air traffic is increasing by leaps and bounds. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. it is also necessary to provide appropriate training to staff. finally, how do you see this problem, commissioner, in the context of the european union's neighbourhood?
mr. chairman, please! the resolution being prepared and other preventive measures to counter the harmful effects of alcohol abuse cannot be combined with the promotion of drinking alcohol advertised as part of europe's cultural heritage and lifestyle, and the risky who opinions on the health effects of alcohol, which are problematic because of the proven harmful effects of this product. the liberal law allowing the use of addictive substances by children and young people, including alcohol in tubes or alcopops, in the context of an epidemic of mental disorders is a reckless and criminal act that can be considered not as a countermeasure but as a promotion of alcoholism and other addictions. even the smallest amount of alcohol and drugs given to a child is highly harmful. strong prohibitions on advertising and supplying alcohol and drugs to children and young people, including in hidden form, should be a priority.
mr. chairman, please! alcohol abuse is a serious social problem in the european union today. europe has the highest rate of alcohol abuse. i do not think that tobacco products and alcohol should be equated. while tobacco products have been scientifically proven to be harmful, alcohol is harmful only when consumed in excess or by people who should not be consuming it. furthermore, studies have shown that even small amounts of alcohol have beneficial effects on the circulatory system. we are talking about the culture of alcohol consumption and the promotion of social responsibility by alcohol producers in europe. in the light of the above arguments, i consider it unjustified to label alcoholic beverages in the same way as tobacco products. on the contrary, it seems far more effective to avoid the costly procedures of unifying the production of packaging in order to reduce alcohol consumption, and instead to invest money in information campaigns. our task is to reach vulnerable groups, such as pregnant women, young people, drivers, through appropriately structured educational activities. standard campaigns should be extended to cover so-called alcoholic drinks, which are often consumed by young people but are generally considered to be of little or no harm. at the same time, the measures i absolutely support are those aimed at minimising the blood alcohol level not only for young drivers but also for those working in public transport. all these measures, which are not repressive in nature, are nevertheless extremely effective and will help to reduce alcohol consumption in the member states. and one more point worth noting: alcohol abuse and addiction, especially among youths, go hand in hand with other addictions that often pile up and lead to tragedy. it is worthwhile that parliament and the commission should also deal with these other addictions among young people.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to draw attention to the following points in this debate: firstly, i support the rapporteur's proposal that the savings resulting from this reform, i.e. the amount of eur 117 million, could be used to set up a milk fund. secondly, the fund should be used primarily for milk producers and processors who, as a result of the progressive liberalisation of the market, are obliged to restructure their holdings or undertakings, but also for the promotion of the consumption of milk and milk products and, in particular, for the financial strengthening of the supply of milk and milk products to schools. thirdly, the commission's proposal to derogate from the three categories of milk for human consumption skimmed, semi-skimmed and whole milk which have been in force up to now should also be welcomed. milk will therefore be allowed to be marketed with any fat content, provided that this is clearly indicated on the packaging. while supporting the solutions proposed in the reports drawn up by mrs jeggle, i would like to remind commissioner fischer boel that there is a need for a serious debate on the size and future of the milk quotas in force in the european union, which are grossly unfair, especially to the new member states. the commissioner promised such a debate in response to my question to the commission on this matter in october 2006. a country like poland, with a population of 38 million, received about 9 million tons, or 0.23 tons per capita, compared with 0.33 tons in germany, 0.39 tons in france, and 0.67 tons in the netherlands. poland, which has excellent conditions for developing milk production already at this moment, i.e. just three years after joining the eu, has production close to the maximum limit and cannot develop it. this has a very negative impact on the profitability of farms that have specialised in milk production.
mr. chairman, please! the proposed changes to the milk market and the creation of a milk fund are intended to be an action to support farmers and consumers, not to worsen the current situation. there is no doubt that emergency situations must be foreseen and legal grounds for the storage of milk products under different conditions must be guaranteed. a very important element in the fight for healthy food is to ensure that the production of farmers in mountain areas is supported. because of the relatively low pollution, the milk produced there is of good quality. it is equally important to provide the public with accurate information about the milk product and the country and producer that produces it. it shall state that no genetically modified plants have been or have been used in the production. this is particularly important when breast-feeding infants. in closing, i'd like to congratulate mrs. jeggle on a very good report.
mr. chairman, please! the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products is an important issue for the european union as a whole and for its individual member states. we all agree that it requires some changes, but based on the results of in-depth analysis, not on the lobbying of industry or commerce. we must remember that our goal should always be the good of man, in this case the consumer, who has a right to expect us to protect him. in this context, the european commission's proposal to abolish the tolerance margin plus or minus 0.2% of the fat content of drinking milk in relation to the value indicated on the packaging is unacceptable. the improvement of the milk market organisation should start with a revision of milk quotas and the basis for their allocation on consumption. it cannot be that germany, for example, with a population of 80 million, has a milk quota of more than 28 600 000 tonnes and poland, with a population of 38 million, has less than 9 million tonnes. the common agricultural policy, including the dairy policy, also requires us to ask ourselves which model of farming we are supporting - family farms or farms with thousands or tens of thousands of hectares. if it's family-based, which i'm all for, then there's no need to fund private farm storage. these resources should be better allocated to the announced milk fund, which would serve, inter alia, to promote knowledge of milk and milk products nutrition, to support the 'milk in school' programme, to support the production of regional products and to restructure dairy farming.
mr. chairman, please! the reports of mrs jeggle set the stage for reform of the milk and milk products market. it is good that the proposals and the creation of the milk fund precede concrete reform measures in the milk producers and processors sector. it is good that they are making the rules applicable to the eu's organisation of the market in milk and milk products more flexible, or in this case, less. it is a pity that this flexibility has not gone further and that we are not abandoning the milk quotas, or the manual control of production volumes. it is also bad that standardization, or the standardization of protein and fat content, remains, because, unlike, for example, meat production, it separates the quality of the product from the producer. finally, i wish producers, processors and all of us that this reform will achieve more than the previous one.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we're discussing a mini-reform package for the dairy market. mini-package is a good name for the changes we're proposing. a full and genuine reform of this market is yet to come. the proposals in the mini-package are right and should be supported. these relate to the creation of a milk fund to support reform measures in the sector, such as the promotion of milk consumption, including in schools, or the promotion of milk production in mountain areas. support for private storage of dairy products should also be maintained. but the big question is, what about the big reform of the dairy market? we are now seeing the rise in dairy product prices, which will contribute to the increase in inflation across the union. the demand for exports of dairy products from the union is increasing. what is the situation in the union? production quotas and huge penalties for going over them. what do you want me to do? systematically, but in a controlled way, let's start increasing the milk quotas by 2 to 5% a year, depending on the situation in the country. let's set a path to get rid of quotas in 2015 - that's what agricultural producers are waiting for. the commissioner has spoken of this many times. can we wait for the health check? i think not, that we can start the slow process of increasing milk quotas today. i repeat, slow, gradual, fully monitored.
, in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european commission's proposal for a mini-milk package will certainly help to simplify the cap and reduce the administrative burden. most of the elements of this package are welcome, in particular the possibility of producing and marketing in the community a milk for human consumption with a higher than usual fat content and the introduction of a single rate of surcharge for milk distributed under the 'school milk' scheme. the elimination of subsidies for private storage of pdos and cream is questionable. the commission considers that the measures under assessment are not imputable to the state and that they are imputable to the state. it is difficult at present to predict precisely the long-term development of the situation on the milk and milk products market, especially as the common agricultural policy is currently being transformed, and therefore abandoning the above support instruments - even if they are not currently used - is too hasty.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. after the tragic experiences of new york, madrid and london, our capacity to cooperate on counterterrorism matters has increased, both in the context of the european union and in the transatlantic context. we should keep going down this road. our concern for privacy and civil rights should not be an excuse to block effective action. we cannot avoid the price we must pay for security in this sphere. it is the safety of our citizens that is paramount. international law also needs to be changed. modern terrorism has created a new phenomenon, the stateless soldier. his statelessness makes it difficult to apply the geneva conventions. at the same time, we should agree that giving terrorists the procedural rights that are characteristic of the european criminal procedure is a pointless act that makes us ineffective in combating this phenomenon.
mr. chairman, please! the reality of ancient europe is hannibal ante portas. the reality of modern europe is terrorism ante portas, or at the gates. the european parliament has been formally involved in the interinstitutional debate for a year. this is good, especially since europe is actually experiencing terrorist attacks all the time and will likely continue to experience them. the point is to limit the possibilities of actually doing them. we therefore rightly want to know which member states of the european union have not implemented the measures to counter terrorism, measures which were agreed in advance. this must be clear so that individual societies do not wake up in shock immediately after attacks on their own territory. we also want to know the real reasons for the resignation of the eu coordinator for the fight against terrorism, mr de vries. was the reason for your resignation a dispute over your competence? terrorism is not an abstraction, it's very real. i speak as the representative of a country whose troops are involved in iraq and afghanistan. for my country, which has no experience with terrorist attacks, terrorism remains a challenge.
madam president! so far, the concept of terrorism has not been definitively defined, and it is not a purely verbal problem. it is a practical implementation of a strategy to tackle one of the greatest threats facing ordinary citizens in the modern world. transatlantic cooperation is an important area of the european strategy to combat terrorist organisations. the united states has taken the lead in combating this dangerous phenomenon. so far, some institutions such as the council of europe and unfortunately the european parliament have taken harmful actions such as the creation of curious commissions to look for alleged cia prisons in europe. the work of these groups has not served transatlantic cooperation, and worse, has fueled anti-american sentiment, significantly weakening the counterterrorism system. it is to be hoped that today's debate will mark the beginning of a genuine, and not merely symbolic, involvement of parliament in the development of a strategy to combat terrorism, with real action to ensure the security of all citizens.
madam president! just as in medicine, when we fight a disease, we focus not on the symptoms but on the deeper underlying causes, so in the fight against terrorism, we must focus not just on a few suicide bombers, but also on why they are doing it. terrorism is a blind act of violence to satisfy one's own needs, inflicting suffering on one's surroundings, which of course must be stopped. this is not an acceptable way to satisfy the needs of a hierarchy. this is not selfless aggression. it's a behavior that we don't like, but it makes sense. how do we prove to the muslims that our hierarchy of needs is superior to their hierarchy? you can't, it's a complex ethical issue, but you have to start somewhere. i propose that we start by showing more respect for the needs of muslims in their own territory, to reduce their influence in the western world.
madam president! in the global war on terror, only good identification and assessment of the terrorist threat can reduce the number of people killed by ideological killers. a good and workable european strategy to combat terrorism is needed to achieve this. the development of a european code of conduct in the fight against terrorism is, in my view, a key element of this strategy, and i therefore welcome the council's initiative in this regard. such a code is not only needed to harmonise the actions of the member states. it should also clearly define the measures that are permissible in the fight against terrorist acts. it is therefore necessary to identify and define the situations in which we treat the threat of terrorism as an emergency and to agree that we can all use certain practical and legal measures which unfortunately restrict some of the rights and freedoms of citizens. we need to have a reasonable limit on civil liberties, because without that limit, we can now tell terrorists, we care more about your rights and freedoms than the rights of the people you kill in your attacks. it is also important to define the role of the counter-terrorism coordinator. we have a choice: either we continue on the path of strengthening administrative competence and capacity for coordination, as was the case under mr de vries - a path which requires serious reflection and drawing conclusions from the last four years - or we consider strengthening the political profile of such a person. but here's the thing about competing with javier solana. in any event, the decision in this case cannot be reduced to personal considerations.
madam president! terrorism is a clear evil - it kills citizens, it threatens states, it undermines the foundations of their democratic functioning, but so far, terrorists have been ahead of us, they strike suddenly and, unfortunately, they are often successful. we only contract after these attacks, so we act ex post. the examples of denmark and germany, cited by the commissioner today, are commendable exceptions. i congratulate the services, but these were national actions, and i want to ask the commissioner: what about prevention at european level? do we have a system of sharing best practices in counterterrorism and how does it work? the european union is adopting new counter-terrorism solutions and creating specialised institutions: europol and eurojust have been created, we have the eu sitcen situation centre, but do they work together properly and, in particular, do they share information? in this context, in the context of the institutions, i would like to ask the commissioner one more question: in your opinion, should frontex, the institution responsible for protecting the eu's borders, not be better used and integrated into the counter-terrorism strategy? i also feel that the delay in implementing sis ii is seriously undermining this strategy. it turns out that schengen ii is important not only for the citizens of the new countries, but also, in the context of the fight against terrorism, for the security of the union as a whole.
madam president! monday's arrests in copenhagen show how the terrorist threat in europe is still very much alive. the report published by europol shows that it remained at a high level last year. suffice it to say, there were 498 terrorist attacks last year. although the threat is not uniform - 294 cases in france and 145 in spain - in the era of globalization, the real target of terrorists is the entire territory of the european union. this is not changed by the fact that the vast majority of these acts are separatist in nature (to which europe has already become accustomed over decades), as in the case of basque and corsican terrorism, and left-anarchist, as in greece. so does this habit mean that we in europe are well equipped to fight terrorism? i still don't think it was. the implementation of the basic conceptual documents, as fundamental as the counter-terrorism strategy, and of the legislative instruments such as the june 2002 framework decision, leaves much to be desired. the coordination of prevention and response to terrorist acts is also insufficient. it is therefore essential to improve this cooperation, especially operational cooperation and the exchange of information between member states, to strengthen the capacities of europol and eurojust, and to strengthen the protection of critical infrastructure, especially transport and energy, as we continue to call for. it is also essential to include in the new treaty the solidarity clause contained in the previous draft of the constitutional treaty and to introduce counter-terrorism clauses in agreements with third countries, as we called for in my report before the holidays.
madam president! today's debate concerns the fight against terrorism, security, the rule of law, individual freedoms and therefore the highest values in the european union system. the european parliament raises a number of issues to the council and the commission, which are of vital importance for the security of citizens, the rule of law and the state of civil liberties. in my speech, i would like to focus on the issue of transparency in the european union's counter-terrorism strategy. democratic control in this area, and in particular the role of the european parliament and national parliaments, guarantees respect for the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaty on european union. i would remind you that the european parliament's resolution on the alleged use of european countries by the cia for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners recommends the use of methods consistent with article 6 of the treaty on european union.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr bogusław liberadzki on 'offshore transport of dangerous goods'. professor liberadzki is a leading expert in the field of transportation. the report he presents is reliable and thoroughly analyses the problem under consideration. the european union's priority is to ensure that europeans have a safe and secure life. this therefore also includes transport safety within the union and in particular the transport of dangerous goods. the increase in trade in goods and services has led to an increase in both road, rail and river transport. i therefore support the initiative to include these modes of transport in a single directive. i believe that the european level should be striving to legislate with the greatest possible added value for eu citizens. the inclusion of the rules in a single eu document will increase their transparency, accessibility and efficiency of use.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mrs inés ayala sender on freight transport logistics in europe key to sustainable mobility. the rapporteur has presented a very good report, adequately analysing such an important issue. without a well-functioning logistics sector, the objectives of growth, employment and making the european union more attractive to investors and workers - and thus the main objectives of the lisbon strategy - cannot be achieved. logistics is an important element in europe's development and its international competitiveness. after all, logistics activities in general account for 13% of gdp in the eu. in addition, the enormous impact of appropriate logistics solutions on reducing environmental pollution and also contributing to reducing energy consumption should not be forgotten. i think that the report, which is intended to help shape the action plan for logistics at european level, should be supported.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on financial instability and its impact on the real economy.
i would point out to the honourable member that when he speaks in the house he is addressing the president and the members, and those who are in the chamber are the audience. i ask that you honor those who, by listening to the lord, honor the lord. (laughter) (applause)
acting president of the council. the honourable member says that her question stands and i regret to say that my answer also stands. i would recommend, as i did at the end of my other speech, that the honourable member should address herself to the european commission.
acting president of the council. the political situation in bosnia-herzegovina is at a very delicate stage. the international court of justice's verdict in the case of bosnia-herzegovina v. serbia and montenegro on the application of the genocide convention at the end of february brought to the fore the antagonisms that seemed to have somewhat abated after the formation of the council of ministers on 9 february. the european union expressed to the bosnian authorities its concern that the deteriorating political climate in the country, the return of nationalist rhetoric and the lack of political will to reach a compromise were jeopardising the reform process. bosnia and herzegovina needs to function effectively as a single economic and administrative area in order to ensure the progress of its citizens and on the path to the european union. as regards relations with the european union and the stabilisation and association process, the technical talks on the stabilisation and association agreement were concluded in december and all member states fully supported the outcome of the technical negotiations on the agreement on 3 may. the lack of concrete progress on police reform is preventing the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement talks. the newly appointed high representative, special representative of the european union, miroslav lajcak, who took up his duties at the beginning of july, has set as his first and immediate priorities, in line with the concerns of the peace implementation council steering committee and the council of the european union, the creation of a constructive political atmosphere and the restructuring of the police. in this context, the high representative, the european union's special representative, is confident that progress can be made by the end of september.
acting president of the council. thank you, mr. deputy, for your question and your suggestion, for your opinion. we are naturally very hopeful and are looking forward with great interest to what the new special representative may propose to us in this area of police cooperation in relation to police reform in bosnia-herzegovina. if this is a point that the special representative raises with the council and if this is a solution or a suggestion from the new high representative - who is directly working on this dossier which, as you have said and rightly said, is a key dossier in the context of the stability of bosnia-herzegovina - if this proposal is raised and submitted to us, of course the council will not fail to consider it. we believe that we should take into account the suggestions, measures and proposals which can actually help to achieve our ultimate and fundamental objective of stability and progress in bosnia-herzegovina.
acting president of the council. this question is perhaps the quickest to answer at this part-session because it is not for the council to comment on the work of the intergovernmental conference on the reform of the treaties, which began, as is well known, on 23 july 2007.
mr. chairman, please! it seems to me that this is precisely the issue that the council is raising, especially since we are now talking about a new treaty that is to revolutionize the new european union, and the inclusion of the court of auditors in the section 'other institutions and advisory bodies' is a clear degradation of this institution in the sense that citizens perceive it. the court of auditors' audit function is not just to monitor expenditure and to check that our common money - the public money of the european union - has been spent properly, but it is also the guardian of budgetary discipline for the whole of the european union, including the council, the parliament and the european commission. his recommendations and opinions help us all in our work. the strong position of the court of auditors must be clear and understandable to all union citizens, as it is also an institution that confirms citizens' trust in the european union as a whole. if you do not think this is a question for the council, then i would like to know to whom it is addressed, because it is the responsibility of the council and the work that is being done to put the court of auditors in its proper place, and i think the proper place is where all the most important institutions of the european union are (we are talking about the new treaty that we are preparing).
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, ms eleni valenciano martínez-orozco, on her report on the functioning of the human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries. today's report is about one of the european union's most important policies. human rights policy is, after all, the hallmark of european policy from the european parliament's point of view. today's report covers this area in an extremely comprehensive and in-depth way. i would like to draw attention to the recommendations of the report to the council and the commission. first of all, we stress the need for greater interinstitutional coherence, for finding ways of improving coordination between the various institutions of the european union: the council, the commission and parliament. human rights policy must be effectively coordinated at eu level. we must put an end to the practice whereby each of the major institutions of the european union acts in this field in a sense, i will use this term, on its own. the objectives of the dialogue and consultation should be based on the principle that human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. we recommend that the criteria established cover not only civil and political rights but also economic, social, environmental and cultural rights. the report emphasises the increased role of the european parliament in the european union's human rights policy. this is a principle which is repeated in virtually every report adopted by this house in the field of human rights. obvious demand the european parliament must be the centre in the system of the most important european institutions at which the european union's human rights policy is centred, because it is a democratically elected institution and has the political and moral right to deal with this issue in a fundamental way. we also consider it important to increase the role of interparliamentary assemblies and delegations in human rights dialogues. finally, we insist that women's rights be recognised as an integral part of human rights and ask the commission to explicitly and systematically take into account the promotion and protection of women's rights in all human rights areas that the european union is involved in.
madam president! the promotion of human rights is a key element of the conduct of the european union's external policy. i agree with the rapporteur that the council and the commission should systematically include human rights issues in the european union's political dialogue with third countries. it would also be desirable to integrate human rights more frequently into all areas of the union's external policy, taking into account the external aspects of its internal policy. all available instruments should be used to achieve this. i think it would be good to make greater use of the european parliament in this area. for example, that the council provide parliament and its competent commission with semi-annual evaluations of each dialogue and consultation, together with an explanation emphasising the trends in the progress of work rather than the individual results. it would also be appropriate to introduce a regular consultation session with members of the european parliament after each round of dialogue and consultation. this would give members of parliament the opportunity to participate in key decisions on whether to continue or suspend a particular dialogue. i also think it would be useful to involve meps in the decision-making process on the launch of a new dialogue and to inform the members of this house of the purpose, form or procedure of such a dialogue. i also believe that, in order to make their work more effective, the council and the commission should incorporate into the programmes of the dialogues the recommendations and conclusions contained in parliament's resolutions, especially those on human rights.
madam president! i welcome the report, particularly as it deals with one of the most pressing problems not only for the union but for the whole world. the quality of dialogue and consultation with third countries in the field of human rights depends above all on consistency and transparency in action. i would like to emphasise that the way to maximise the impact of dialogue is through closer cooperation, especially within the eu's decision-making triangle. we need to be clear about the goals we want to achieve. the increased coherence required should also concern the general separation of the human rights dialogue from the rest of bilateral relations. the report does, however, stress that this kind of hypocrisy should be eliminated in the case of china. but he's not strong enough on relations with russia. the criteria we use for human rights must be clearly defined for all countries and, most importantly, the same. i regret to say that this rule is often broken. the generally accepted standards are applied selectively, depending on the cost-effectiveness of such activities. and as i mentioned, the situation is no different with russia, for which the european union is the main trading partner. this is certainly a win-win situation. but we cannot afford to let human rights be put on the back burner at the cost of good trade relations. i hope i don't have to remind you that torture and racial persecution are as common in the russian federation as they are in chechnya, and the reporters without borders world press freedom index ranks the country 147th, dangerously close to countries like china and north korea. the consequence of this is that cuba is also affected, and cuba is not mentioned in this report. as with russia, the eu, as its main trading partner, seems to turn a blind eye to the practices there. despite the june resolution, no concrete action is being taken. we read all the time that the european parliament is demanding something, regretting something. but what does that mean? the sakharov prize has never been awarded to a woman in white from havana. another extremely important element in terms of human rights is the need to improve the instrument that is responsible for finding and distributing financial assistance to the opposition in countries with a low level of democracy. i would particularly like to stress the importance of proper needs identification. opposition groups are often characterised by a low level of formality. we have to do everything we can to make sure that money goes to the right people, not the people in the government apparatus. believe me, i know this from the autopsy, that for these people, concrete actions are worth far more than resolutions and assurances. in discussing human rights, i would like to draw your attention to the situation of christians in the middle east. the information we're receiving is alarming. in august, two christian activists from the middle east christian association were arrested on charges of making violent statements against islam. in algeria, the government has restricted the freedom of worship of non-muslims, which has directly affected christians in the country. repression by the increasingly radical muslim side also affects christians in countries such as iraq, egypt and lebanon.
in writing. among the many good points in this report, it is particularly commendable that it calls on the council and the commission to involve parliament more fully in the preparation and evaluation of dialogues with third countries. the european parliament is an institution whose views on human rights are highly respected throughout the world. it should be borne in mind, however, that dialogue with non-eu countries should not be an end in itself. it must be emphasized that human rights cannot be part of any negotiation or bargain on diplomatic or economic grounds. the violation of these rights must not be tolerated and the european union and its institutions, in view of the historical, cultural and moral values which guide them, must absolutely stand guard over this principle. finally, it is necessary to exert a lasting and consistent influence on countries such as russia and china, with which institutionalised dialogue has been ongoing for some time. it is necessary to monitor the impact of the findings and commitments they make in subsequent rounds of consultation, as this is the only way to achieve real progress. in this context, it is encouraging that the report identifies areas where these countries still have a lot to do. and there are, unfortunately, still a lot of those problems.
madam president! i have one minute to speak on behalf of polish fishermen who want to say that the new eu regulation on cod fishing discriminates against polish fishermen, especially given the widespread knowledge of fishing in other countries. fishermen hope that the regulation's content reflects the european commission's ignorance of the true scale of the baltic sea fisheries by individual countries. they are not only calling for the regulation to be withdrawn, but for a special independent committee to be set up at the european parliament to examine and clarify the rules and method of estimating the quantities of fish in the baltic sea after the enlargement of the union in 2004 and to ascertain the extent of the irregularities.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all let me refer to the accident that ms fraga estévez and ms miguélez ramos mentioned. i share their concern and sorrow at the loss of life and hope that the missing fishermen can be brought to safety. allow me to pick up on some of the points that were raised in the debate, which have proved to be quite varied to say the least – poles apart on how to move forward. however, having said that, from the debate it is clear that we share a common view that fisheries have to be brought to sustainable levels as soon as possible. this does not mean that what we are proposing is drastic and immediate action. rather we are setting ourselves an objective to arrive at maximum sustainable yield (msy) in a gradual and flexible manner. at each step we will re-evaluate and re-assess the targets we set and if required, we will adapt them to changing situations. in other word, the msy approach is providing us with a direction and not necessarily with a fixed target. let me repeat, the msy approach moves fisheries management in the right direction, away from over-exploitation and towards conditions of higher and more stable catches and lower costs. this approach should be adaptive so that as we learn more – or, as environmental and ecosystem conditions change – new knowledge can be applied to the approach. the point has been raised that msy has not worked and is not appropriate for pelagic stocks, and that it is an outdated concept. let me say there have been fisheries management strategies in europe and in other parts of the world which were successful. although the concept is not new, it does not mean that it is outdated. the important point is that, as long as it defines a path for fisheries management and is flexible enough to allow for regular revisions, it has good chances of success. good examples of some success can be seen in stocks such as saithe, north sea haddock and mackerel, which are fished close to msy level and which are generally stable and profitable. let me highlight one point. the purpose of this proposal is not to penalise fishermen, who, admittedly, have to make a number of adjustments, but rather it seeks to reach an objective and embark on a direction where the sector operates in a more stable and in a more profitable environment. as i stated in my opening statement, the european fisheries fund allows member states to develop measures concerning adjustments of capacity and fishing effort in the context of long-term plans, including social and economic provisions involving the appropriate use of public money, in their operational programmes. another point raised relates to the fact that msy will not work in mixed fisheries, because when targeting one stock to move towards msy one could end up in a situation where the other stocks caught in such a mixed fishery are under-exploited. i think we have to be realistic about the situation and the majority of mixed fisheries. the stocks concerned are equally exploited to unsustainable levels. it is clear that the application of the msy approach to mixed fisheries will be difficult and will have to be studied on a case-by-case basis. however, the mixed fisheries problem exists and, if we do not address it, there can be no improvements and no steps can be taken in the right direction. regarding consultation, let me say that the commission is committed to stakeholder involvement and consultation. many consultations have already been held since the adoption of the objective of msy at the johannesburg summit. such consultations involved member states, scientists and the regional advisory councils, who are studying our proposal as well and who are seeking to advise us on the best way forward. discussions on the plans will be held at a later stage, after we have developed impact assessments, consulted the industry and drawn up our specific proposals. i look forward to a continued dialogue with you on these plans.
the next item is the report by béatrice patrie, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the green paper on the review of the acquis in the field of consumer protection (2007/2010 (ini)) (a6-0281/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the review of the community acquis in the field of consumer rights is essential for the development and functioning of the common market. the removal of barriers and inefficient consumer protection solutions can make life easier for millions of citizens moving between eu countries. clear and comprehensible rules that are easy to enforce help to increase confidence in the functioning of the common market and to increase the purchasing of goods and services. the timetable and urgent matters for the implementation of the tasks set out in the green paper and the consumer rights review report are now important. i would like to thank the author, mrs béatrice patrie, for her detailed and insightful report.
mr. chairman, please! the single market in the european union is now an unquestioned fact, which is why consumer protection in the national states seems so important. i am strongly opposed to the use of the review of the acquis to extend the scope of existing sectoral directives or to add additional directives which, while relevant to consumer rights, may also infringe a certain legal order. the european commission's role is to ensure that the consumer protection mechanisms proposed in the report contribute to raising consumer confidence, but it is also important that they do not place an unnecessary burden on businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, and do not lead to the creation of further ineffective community regulations.
mr. chairman, please! i welcomed with interest the green paper on the review of the acquis communautaire in the field of consumer rights presented by the commission. the simplification and improvement of the regulatory environment for both consumers and businesses is of particular interest, especially as 90% of them are small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the driving force behind many emerging economies. it is also important to link the issue of consumer contracts with the work on the whole of contract law as part of the ongoing process towards a common framework for european contract law. i also share the view that harmonisation should lead to a comparable level of consumer protection in all member states without the need to harmonise all national legislation unequivocally, a process which could significantly delay the desired effects in this respect. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the very thorough, even meticulous, approach to the subject in this report, which has helped to clarify many important issues and has clarified a number of doubts.
madam president! one of the european union's fundamental objectives is to develop an information society. but such a society must be based on firm and unwavering rules. one of its essential components is trust, which should be built on a solid foundation. this applies to all areas of european policy, but certainly to a decisive extent to consumer rights, consumer protection and related safety. this is confirmed by the results of the consultation carried out on the basis of the questions annexed to the green paper. citizens place a high value on safety and it is the desire to ensure safety that motivates support for the fullest possible harmonisation of legislation. the figures in the report are disturbing. more than 70% of europeans think that cross-border transactions can cause more problems than local purchases. half of europeans are wary of cross-border shopping. these are simple, unimportant facts from the point of view of big politics, but they are of tremendous importance to the citizens, given their sense of unity and their level of integration. the second issue which is extremely urgent and which, in my view, cannot be left to self-regulation is the protection of consumers engaged in electronically assisted commerce, so-called e-commerce. i am of course reminded of the e-commerce directive of june 2000, but please note that it was adopted seven years ago. don't get me wrong, but seven years is a long time, considering the history of this phenomenon is only a dozen years. and the question of what has changed since then is difficult to answer except everything. the terrorist attacks of september 11, 2001, have re-examined our understanding of internet security. after all, they were prepared using advanced techniques. the above arguments are of very specific relevance to the issue of consumer protection. we need clear and secure ways to transact online. we should focus on measures that make online transactions credible and exclude the possibility of unauthorised access to consumer data. a relatively easy way to achieve this vision is to raise and standardise europe-wide standards for the security of online transactions.
madam president! globalisation and the rapid changes it brings to the internal market are forcing legislators to create better, modern law that meets the needs of 21st century consumers and businesses. this is particularly important in the context of the revision of the acquis in the field of consumer protection, as our societies have become more mobile as a result of the deepening integration. our citizens are increasingly buying and using services in other member states. this is why it is so important to take this initiative so that consumers feel that they are equally protected throughout the european union. the commission's proposed project is balanced in my view, as it ensures a high level of consumer protection while supporting the competitiveness of the european economy. such a set of standards, in addition to the fact of their existence, should above all be effective. i therefore stress that consumers, like other internal market actors, should have legal certainty about their activities and activities in the market. the existing rules did not provide for this because they were not uniformly applied in the member states. modernising, simplifying and improving the law, with the consequent achievement of legal certainty, is what the european commission proposes in its green paper and is almost entirely supported by the rapporteur in her report. i agree with the proposed mixed approach to simplifying the eight consumer protection directives. the cross-cutting instrument should be based on maximum harmonisation and sectoral tools should be subject to minimum harmonisation. i also share the commission's view that the rules on the right of withdrawal and cancellation should be modernised and that they should be defined by calendar days. in addition, in order to simplify procedures for small businesses and consumers and to increase the level of application of the information rules, i support the commission's call for a common withdrawal form to be used in all member states. i am also glad that the definition of consumer and producer has been worked out and that it is a good one. i believe that the cross-cutting instrument contains many useful suggestions for modernising the community acquis. in the field of consumer law, it is a good idea to create a blacklist of terms and conditions that are unfair in all circumstances. it is in the common interest of all internal market participants to adopt this report and to carry out a review of the acquis in this area. there are many points in the report of the members of parliament which are worth considering. it is a good report, and i congratulate the rapporteur on it.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report on the functioning of the human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries. the report touches on the very important issue of adequate representation of the european parliament in the dialogues and consultations of the european union with third countries. human rights issues should be systematically included in the agenda of the european union. we must ensure that the european parliament is adequately involved in all human rights issues.
mr. chairman, please! i just wanted to let you know that in the electronic voting on patrie's report, i tried to vote for the amendment twice, but unfortunately my terminal didn't work. please note that.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: as usual, on thursday afternoon, we're covering human rights abuses around the world. if we were to enumerate all the states, societies, nations that are the subject of human rights violations and, as a result, the subject of our debates, we would probably cover a huge part of the globe. and let's note that human rights violations are not only in poor countries, but often in developing countries, not very rich, but developing countries, like russia, which even has a legitimate democratic election, or china, which is moving very fast up the global wealth ladder. but we also have the poorest countries. mr president, we should consider whether we should not devote one debate to asking the european commission to present a concept for tackling human rights violations in the world. because we, as i say, talk about it every thursday, we complain every thursday, and it doesn't really come out. and human rights violations are clearly caused by a combination of factors. and it has to be said that the key factor is the cooperation of the various, often very legitimate, large financial and economic institutions with the criminal regimes of these countries. it turns out that there is a certain corporation of big financial corporations that in concert with various heretics and local dictatorships oppress their own societies. sadly, in colonial times, these nations often had better things to do, because they were ruled by colonialists, but it was not so often that there was a criminal relationship between big foreign finance and local regimes. and an example of such a relationship, as mr matsakis rightly said, is burma, among other places. is there something we can do?
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for the third time in this parliament's debate on human rights, i am speaking on the political and social situation in burma, where for many years human rights have been violated, where there has been widespread persecution, not only of pro-democracy activists, but also of the rest of the population, 30% of whom live below the poverty line, are forced to work, are forcibly displaced. this time, the intensification of protests and persecution came after a 500% increase in fuel prices as a result of the government's withdrawal of subsidies. human rights groups are alarmed by the arrests of some 100 activists and the illegal detention of nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi for another year. we support the resolutions, but they do not change the situation in burma, where the regime is not responding to any intervention, and therefore more radical measures should be taken.
mr. chairman, please! this is not the first, and unfortunately probably not the last, debate about the violation of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in burma. yesterday, when we discussed the resolution on burma in the epp group, we came to the conclusion that the draft resolution was very good, but the situation in burma was very bad. i think many of us would like the opposite to happen, that is, that the situation in burma is such that we do not have to make any resolutions. in burma, the military has pacified ethnic minority areas, regularly arrested opposition activists, and harassed ordinary citizens protesting against price hikes and the already outrageously low living standards. what can we do? the european council should analyse the weaknesses of the sanctions system in detail so that they can become a real and effective weapon against the burmese political regime. we need to keep the pressure on china and russia to get the un security council to discuss the situation in burma. we should also ensure that the €65 million in eu aid over the next few years goes to the people of the country and not to the regime.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the next country we're talking about right now, and where there are fundamental rights violations, is bangladesh. and when we look at these examples and these examples and wonder why is it that a world that is so subject to so-called globalization today, when the whole world is wrapped up in a web of economic organizations, a web of political organizations first and foremost, why is it that today, when we have the united nations, when we have the european union here in europe, when we have so many organizations that declare respect for human beings, why is it that we don't have globalization of basic humanitarian principles? but i think that's the problem of our times and our organizations. we're all interested in economics, we're all interested in politics, but when it comes to giving economics and politics a human dimension that will result in the liberation of ordinary, simple people from harm, we're helpless. commissioner reding said a moment ago when we were talking about burma that there is a danger that we will again be helpless, with our hands down in the face of these wrongs. but we must realize that some steps are necessary, that there is a lack of proportion between the scale of our political activities, our economic activities and the state of observance of the basic basic rights. i would like to draw attention to another point: the declaration mentions religious persecution, among other things. i would like to point out that religious persecution is usually, if not always, directed against christians, and most often against catholics, that catholics today are the most persecuted and the most killed for their faith of any religion in the world. let's stick to the facts when we talk about persecution, let's remember who is persecuting whom.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the situation in bangladesh is worrying, but steps are being taken to hold elections on time. however, there is a concern that the action plan issued by the electoral commission in july 2007 will not be implemented on time. the european union's observation mission ended on january 22, when the un withdrew its support. we can't leave bangladesh at this time, we need to send observers equipped with broad competencies. in addition, observers should have a monitoring role for the criminal trials and detentions of ordinary citizens. among the most important is the pressure on the authorities to release the students detained during the protests on 28 august 2007. our response should be immediate and include comprehensive assistance. otherwise, we can't expect elections to be held on time.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it has been almost a year since the last european parliament resolution on bangladesh. despite high expectations, the country's internal situation has deteriorated. elections scheduled for january were postponed until the end of 2008 and a provisional government, backed by the army, declared a state of emergency. the current government openly restricts all political activity and the freedom of the press and media. among those arrested are already two former prime ministers, 160 prominent politicians and over 100,000 civilians. in august this year, the international community was deeply concerned by the military's brutal crackdown on student protests at the university of dhaka. in the light of the above, the council and the european commission should closely monitor the situation, with a focus on the re-establishment of independent institutions and political parties in bangladesh. it seems necessary to send another observation mission and technical assistance which can effectively help in the preparation of free democratic elections. only the combined efforts of all parties involved will allow for a genuine stabilisation of the situation in bangladesh.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the development of international humanitarian law, the tribunals that were established to try war crimes and crimes against humanity, was a great achievement of the international community after world war ii. in the era of globalisation, their role has increased even more, especially in territories where the state is unable to concentrate central authority around the rule of law and to ensure the basic security of the population of those territories. the special court for sierra leone plays an important role in peace and justice in the mano river region of west africa. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the tribunal has also undertaken programmes for the archiving and translation of documents informing its work, and programmes for the protection of victims. this type of activity is of fundamental importance for the establishment of the rule of law in west africa in the long term. in its resolution on the financing of the special tribunal for sierra leone, parliament calls on the commission, all the european institutions and the member states to ensure that the financial basis is in place to enable the tribunal to complete its work in a calm and serious manner.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it so happens that next weekend another round of parliamentary elections will be held in sierra leone and i can only express my regret that the delegation of the european parliament that was previously scheduled will not be there. why is the special tribunal for sierra leone so important? this is not just about one of the many african countries with a history of crime and rape, but about the prestige and development of the international criminal justice system. let us be frank, we have recently noted two spectacular failures of this supranational justice system: the unsuccessful attempt to try slobodan milosevic and the more than controversial circumstances surrounding the death of saddam hussein. if, after these two prestigious failures, another compromise were to occur, namely the suspension of the functioning of the tribunal due to lack of funds, it would be a nail in the coffin of international criminal justice. specifically, it is a commitment of just under us$90 million over the next two years and one quarter, with more than a third of that amount to be committed this year. all to ensure the functioning of the tribunal. in fact, the trial of former liberian president charles taylor by the special tribunal for sierra leone and the handling of 17 counts of crimes against humanity, war crimes, including murder and sexual crimes, will determine the authority of the justice system that extends beyond national borders. two countries are particularly to be thanked: the united kingdom and the netherlands, which have been particularly generous in their financial support of the tribunal. the united nations will also have a role to play, and it cannot act like pontius pilate and wash its hands of this matter. i am glad that the european parliament will speak with one voice on this matter.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the special court for sierra leone deserves our special attention, because it is rightly presented as a new, almost perfect model of justice. moreover, it is proof that an international war crimes tribunal can be located in the country where the crimes were committed, giving direct access to justice to the local population, while maintaining full efficiency at a much lower cost compared to its counterparts in other regions of the world. for the first time in history, the conviction of the incumbent african head of state, charles taylor, for crimes against the people, as well as the legal definition of the concept of children of soldiers and forced marriages, made it possible to convict those responsible for these crimes. unfortunately, the special court for sierra leone may be shut down because it's running out of money. that's just under $90 million to keep the cases of the world's worst criminals going. i therefore appeal to all member states and to the commission to find funding as soon as possible to support the special court in sierra leone, otherwise the continuation of the peace process and reconciliation in sierra leone and throughout west africa will be put in serious doubt.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. i fully join with all those who are calling for the work to be done, for justice to be done in sierra leone. it's necessary, you know. the criminal cannot feel impunity, whether he is in europe or africa or anywhere else in the world. but i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a problem which i think is very important, because we have a flood of tribunals, an inflation of criminal tribunals, created by the united nations as well. there was an international tribunal in rome, there was a tribunal for crimes in the former yugoslavia, there was a tribunal for crimes in rwanda, and now there is a special tribunal in sierra leone. i know that they are needed, but if you are going to set up such institutions, they must have the means in advance. this is a sine qua non. i therefore ask the commissioner to raise the question of financing the institutions that are needed, that must have money, at the next summit between the european union and africa, which will take place later this year, because it is embarrassing to talk about such amounts.
mr. chairman, please! one of the catholic universities in poland is currently applying for a grant from the european union. catholicism has played and continues to play a special role in our history in the struggle for freedom against communism and for the development of democracy in general, even to the extent of being comparable to the role of socialism in franco's spain. polish catholicism has never harmed the jewish community. meanwhile, i hear the jews are trying to block these subsidies by intervening with the president of the european commission. this is an interference in polish affairs and polish european, national and religious sensitivities. the union should trust the poles themselves and not succumb to influential lobbyists.
in august, the president of this parliament participated at the congress of the german landsmannschaft. his decision to support this organisation serves as an example of how the president is not capable of acting neutral when the interests of his country to rewrite history are involved. owing to such organisations and their misguided supporters, the german people may possibly believe the lie that poland committed evil by accepting the historically polish western territories on the odra and nysa from the hands of the great powers. a polish politician once wrote that the anglo-saxon parties to the potsdam treaty put forward a formula that we had been awarded the western territories by way of compensation for the loss of the eastern territories. the polish nation has rejected this formula and does not consider these territories as compensation by russia for the eastern half of our fatherland. the nation believes that the western territories are the compensation for guilt at crimes committed by germans, compensation that has nothing to do with lwów and wilno. the president of this parliament, an institution representing 27 nations, is expected to show objectivity and represent the common interests. if herr president has a problem with that, let him remain silent. europe does not need any more mawkish, moralising christers who speak of peace and cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! for us, poles, gdańsk shipyard is not only the cradle of solidarity, but also a symbol of change, both nationally and internationally. it's also a symbol of freedom and partnership. there is a conflict between the yard's management and the european commission, which is demanding a sharp reduction in the yard's production capacity and the closure of two ramps or the return of public aid. for the record, gdańsk shipyard was the beneficiary that received the least funding but nevertheless, as the only one, it obtained a positive financial result for the first half of this year. if the shipyard were to bend and accept these terms, it would practically be the end of this symbolic, well-deserved work. the supervisory board of the yard decided to increase the share capital by pln 300 million, which would be allocated to further investments. there's a chance to save this plant. i think that saving this plant is an honor not only for poles, but also for the european union. today, i and my crew are asking the members to sign declaration 81 on the future of gdańsk shipyard. and on a matter of form, mr. chairman! two sentences, if i may, since i'm in the audience. i have a question. who appointed mr. schulz as censor? because it's rude, it's uncivilized, it's disruptive, it's out of order, and it's not fair. and i'm just saying that the acceptance in the room is definitely not there.
on behalf of the uen group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on renewable energy in europe, i would like to thank mrs thomsen for producing a comprehensive report on this subject. first, the author rightly points out that the most important issue - also for the future of renewable energy in europe - is the development of a common european energy policy. unfortunately, there is no progress in this area, although there have been vague promises to include this policy in the treaty on european union reform. poland, which is experiencing firsthand the effects of divergent interests in energy policy between individual member states, for example through the implementation of the german-russian baltic gas pipeline investment, presented the main principles of such a common energy policy at the european union council almost two years ago. unfortunately, at the time, this proposal did not arouse interest because it went against the interests of the most important country in the union, germany. i would like to express the hope that the european commission will take the preparation of such a common energy policy seriously this time. second, in order to improve access to the transmission networks in individual countries for producers of different types of renewable energy, it is necessary to separate the transmission system operators from the energy production. without this solution, producers of energy from traditional sources, who also own or manage transmission networks, will not be interested in making them available to producers of energy from renewable sources. the european commission's latest proposals in this area have been met with fierce opposition from the powerful energy companies, mainly from france and germany. it will be interesting for us in parliament to see how the european commission deals with this resistance. third, the strategic renewable energy target of producing 20% of energy from renewable sources and achieving 20% energy efficiency by 2020 deserves attention and support. i would hope that the european commission will propose appropriate support instruments not only at eu level but also at member state level to achieve these ambitious objectives. i would like to draw particular attention to the production of biofuels, which not only increase the use of renewable energy, but also cause agricultural raw materials to be used for other purposes than food production, thus reducing overproduction. i also disagree with the author of the report that biofuel production can cause food prices to rise and that, therefore, the eu market will have to be opened up more to food from third countries.
mr. chairman, please! the roadmap for renewable energy is an important document that could help generate renewable energy. the continuing rise in oil and gas prices may be a factor in achieving these objectives. the european union has only about 2% of the world's reserves of these raw materials. its economy is and will be dependent on the price of raw materials and political stability in oil-producing regions. therefore, the assumed 20% renewable energy rate seems unsatisfactory. the european union should have a diversified energy policy, taking into account the different possibilities for renewable energy in different countries and regions, and develop local and regional action programmes on renewable energy production and savings, supported by local authorities, governments and the european union. priority should be given to energy-related research programmes. provision should also be made for the development of nuclear energy, which reduces co2 emissions, where necessary. i thank the rapporteur, mrs britta thomsen, for her very insightful report.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start my closing words of this debate with what mr vidal-quadras said: there should not be a feeling of winners or losers in this policy area because renewable policy is definitely one that we need, for three basic reasons. first of all, climate change: without renewable energy sources it is rather naive to expect that we could master the climate change challenge. second, competition for energy resources: the world is growing, people are living better and energy resources are even scarcer and the run for energy resources could also be geopolitically dangerous. third, let us not be misled by the costs. we have a rather nice situation today, because, at usd 80 per barrel of oil, we have an exchange rate going up to eur 1.4. so as a result, we have been sheltered from the oil price increase. but these are not related processes; it is just a coincidence. we saw that, when the euro was launched, the expectation was one to one. if we stayed at the same exchange rate, we would have energy resources today 50% higher, and then a lot of parliaments would be discussing emergency aid. so, economically, we also need renewables. is it a lot to ask for this technological breakthrough? and it is not subsidies which we are calling for, it is investment aid, because 20% of final energy consumption is not 100%, it is not 50%: it is just one fifth, and we need this technology to be applicable. so, why do we need europe? because it has scale and scope, and also there have been calls. there is potential in the member states that are not rich, at least in gdp per capita terms. there are member states where there is not so much potential and we need to find the way to use the whole potential of the european union. the richer countries could invest in the countries where there is more potential, because, as a result, we will all benefit by having new technology which powers us from clean energy sources. i quoted gordon brown not because of any political affiliation. i quoted that, even the uk, where today there is not so much penetration of renewable energy, there are calls for this policy – meaning this attitude – and that we need binding targets because, to achieve a long-lasting policy goal, only binding targets matter. if they are just indicative targets, we just measure until the next elections and so on. if they are binding, it means long-term policies are in place that facilitate investment and that facilitates the rules of application. now, on the challenge a lot of you put forward about food energy sustainability. well, i would like to dispute that at this stage renewable energy has any considerable impact on food prices. there is definitely more growth in welfare in the world. people are eating better: in india, in china, in third world countries as well. so everywhere in the world people are asking for more resources and it is fair to ask. definitely, the world market price answers with higher prices. it will increase the production, but it will not change basically that we will have low oil prices or low food prices again. it will stay reasonably high and, for this reason, this challenge does not come from renewable energy sources. at the same time, i am from the part that believes that we need defined sustainability criteria and we will do this in this directive, because the counter-argument could be that there already is water legislation, waste legislation and soil legislation. ‘why do we need an additional source of bureaucracy?’ some people ask. i believe, if we are embarking on particular policy areas that are contested from the point of view of society and from the political groups, then we need to provide an answer. and certification, if even sometimes cumbersome, is needed to really provide an answer that none of the energy resources will be provided in an unsustainable way. but, i really believe that the report is very well balanced. it is very well balanced between these challenges and i hope very much that in the house it will find broad support, because this broad support would mean better support also for the commission proposal at the end of the year. so, it is well done and i would like to again thank the rapporteur and all the rapporteurs in the political groups and different committees, because i think it is well done. it is exactly the equilibrium that we need, and now we need broad support.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 september 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by george jarzembowski, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/440/eec on the development of the community's railways and directive 2001/14/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure (pe-cons 3635/2007 c6-0212/2007 2004/0047 (cod)) (a6-0314/2007), and the report by gilles savary, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/440/eec on the development of the community's railways and directive 2001/14/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure (pe-cons 3635/2007 c6-0212/2007 2004/0015 (cod)) (cons-06-0346/007)), and the joint text approved by the european parliament and council on the joint committee on the rules of procedure, on the rules of procedure, on the rules of procedure, on the rules of procedure, and standards of procedure, c6-06-03
the commission's vice-president mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on 19 and 20 june 2007, after a long and difficult negotiation, which focused mainly on passenger rights, the conciliation committee finally reached an agreement. of course, this agreement was achieved thanks to the efforts of each institution. but the european parliament has made a significant contribution to the progress of this third railway package. and i want to congratulate the chairman of your delegation, mr vidal-quadras, and also the rapporteurs, mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr savary, and the chairman and the members of the committee on transport, who have followed these matters closely, and who have been able to make real progress with regard to the text of the council's common position, especially in the area of passenger rights. i am pleased to note that the package approach adopted by parliament and the commission has been successful. we have thus succeeded in adopting these texts only two and a half years after the commission presented them, and this at a time when the number of member states has almost doubled. i must admit, mr president, that the tenacity shown by parliament has enabled us to see the revision of the regulation on public service obligations in the field of land transport adopted in parallel. all this was not quite certain two years ago! thank you to parliament. i should now like to take a quick look at the achievements of each of the three texts. first, the opening up of the market for international passenger rail services. two subjects were discussed during the conciliation: the commission's report on the implementation of opening up international passenger services and the charge for the financing of public services. on the first point, parliament wanted the commission report to also address the question of the opening up of the market for domestic services and to be accompanied by a legislative proposal to that end. the conciliation committee found a compromise formula, since it is now expected that the commission will include in its report an analysis of the prospects for opening up domestic markets to competition. it will do so taking into account the experience gained in the application of the public service regulations as well as differences between member states. and, mr jarzembowski, if necessary, the commission will propose in its report additional measures to facilitate the gradual opening up of the market. i am aware that this compromise should have been more ambitious for you, but it has two advantages. it allows us to implement the new legislative framework, including public services. it also provides a clear and timely perspective for a detailed analysis of the impact of this new legislative framework in all member states. we will then be able to examine the appropriateness of further proposals from the commission. the second point of the negotiation was the public service financing charge. a number of member states have requested that all rail services in their territories, whether national or international, and regardless of the providers of these services, all rail services contribute to the financing of public services in passenger transport, subject to the levying of a fee. when the council adopted the common position, the commission accepted this possibility in so far as it was compatible with community law. the compromise reached in the conciliation committee thus incorporated several elements of parliament's second reading. i thank your parliamentary delegation for joining us and i confirm my commitment to being able to complete this legislative framework as far as possible. i come now, mr savary, to the certification of the flight crew. apart from some more or less technical questions, which were easily resolved before the final meeting, two issues remained to be resolved: firstly, the partial reimbursement of training costs when a driver leaves a company prematurely, and secondly, the scope of the directive. for the partial reimbursement of training costs, the solution was to ask the member states to solve this problem by means of national solutions, since, in the end, a harmonization of the solutions was not necessary. as far as the scope is concerned, i think we have found the best solution. the european railway agency will undertake a more in-depth study on the profile and tasks of staff on board trains that contribute to their safety. this will enable us to develop a more targeted proposal for these staff, but you have done well in stressing the extreme importance of this issue of the certification of flight crew. i come now, mr sterckx, to the rights and obligations of rail passengers. the final phase of the negotiations focused on the scope of the regulation on rail passengers' rights. parliament has from the outset wanted the charges to be levied on all rail services, including national services. but a large number of member states saw major difficulties in applying it, particularly to local services, which have characteristics very different from international or long distance services. the final solution has two essential elements: a new distinction between services and significant transition periods. the new structure organises the scope around long and short distance parameters, with the short distance covering urban, suburban and regional services. the regulation therefore no longer refers to 'national' and 'international' travellers. this new situation, to which you have made a great contribution, mr sterckx, has enabled us to reach agreement on the most difficult point of the negotiations. the scope of the solution chosen has many advantages: greater conformity with the internal market compared with the parameters originally envisaged, this national and international dimension; the commission will be able to take account of the size and structure of the territory in an objective manner when defining urban, suburban and regional services at national level within the framework established by the regulation. the compromise also postponed the application of certain chapters of the regulation for a transitional period of five years, renewable twice. this solution makes it possible to ease the burden on railway companies immediately, while maintaining the obligation to transpose the duties established by the regulation. the railway companies will therefore not be able to relax their efforts in the future. i would also remind you that the regulation will contain a minimum set of duties, applicable as soon as it comes into force and without any possible exemption. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railway system is not affected by the accident. that's a lot of money. this is a good result, which will make it possible to offer a much better service to rail passengers in the future. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have shown that together we can make things happen. of course, this is just a phase. we must now ensure that the rules adopted by parliament and the council are properly applied. the commission, in its role as guardian of the treaties, will not relent in its efforts to do so. with the slight delay due to my arrival by direct train from cyprus, i was unable to hear the three rapporteurs, but i understood what mr savary said about the absolute necessity of this interoperability for the europeanisation of railways. at this price we will be able to transfer part of the freight to rail, the benefits of which are now being fully appreciated, particularly in view of our priority in the fight against global warming. it is true that this package is imperfect, but it has the great merit of being here, of existing, and i cannot thank enough, mr president, all the members who have contributed to its adoption, which also marks a new stage for us, and to which i will be personally very committed and very vigilant.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to start by saying that our aim in the european parliament, in the european union, is to serve our citizens well, and in the field of transport policy to try to give the railways a new development opportunity, a new spirit of development, giving it a character and shape of entrepreneurship and new market opportunities. the package presented fulfils these two essential objectives. that is why i want to say at the outset that we will vote in favour. i should like to refer to the report by mr george jarzembowski. the first essential point is the scope of the new regulation. well, this submission is for international rail passenger services. we have examined and discussed in committee, including bilaterally with the rapporteur, mr jarzembowski, the possibility of going one step further, perhaps two steps further, in the form of liberalization of national transport. we accept the scope of the regulation proposed, i.e. international rather than cross-border transport with the possibility of operating between stations within each member state. it is an effective and feasible solution, and we will accept it. the second, controversial area, also mentioned by commissioner barrot, is the possibility of introducing charges in the event of negative effects of liberalisation or a threat to the efficiency and effectiveness of the national passenger transport system and the provision of public services. there were concerns and controversies. the solution may be operationally sound, but the commission will of course have to work with the member states. by the way, i have a remark: we have a very bad, almost meaningless, translation into polish. the third thing, and it's very important, is the report that evaluates the effects of this liberalization in 2012. we're going to need it. so liberalization as a means - yes, and we accept it! there's a difference between my group and, say, mr. sterckx's statement. i want to make it very clear that this package is a whole. the reports by mr jarzembowski, mr sterckx and mr gilles savary mean that we can indeed speak of new quality. i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteurs, mr jarzembowski, mr gilles savary and mr sterckx. i think we should particularly emphasise the approach of commissioner barrot, the directorate-general and the german presidency. of course, there is a chance that we can say that in the next few years we will be able to see a synergy effect for the whole rail transport system, including especially passenger, in europe. and for this reason i feel a great satisfaction, although as a representative of a new country i can also share some fears that if the job market for machinists opens up, we may start to fear the outflow in new countries, but maybe it will also be mobilizing.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i don't know if the same terms work in other countries, but in poland we used to say that the railway is a state within a state, or that nobody has won with the railway yet. it is with all the greater appreciation that we should welcome the fact that after a long period of work the third railway package is now coming into force and that the railways will be a win-win for the ordinary citizen, if he is right, of course. all this is because we have adopted what might be called the rail passenger charter, namely the basic passenger rights. these include the right to be informed about your rights (a very important right), the right to insurance, compensation, and the right to freedom of movement for the disabled. we must pay particular attention to this and ensure that it is done, whether in small railway stations or in very regional centres. of course, there are those among us who would like these powers to be more extensive and unconditional. we're putting in some conditions. but i don't hide my satisfaction with the fact that they are as they are for now. i am sure that, knowing the determination of the european parliament, we will not stop there and gradually extend these powers. i therefore congratulate all the rapporteurs, the members of the conciliation committee, the council and the commission. congratulations, because i think we've made a big step forward. it's an important step towards citizenship.
mr. chairman, please! europe is for the people, for the citizens, not for the political class, the elites or the salons. the european parliament recently pushed for lower prices for international calls from mobile phones. that was concrete. today we have a similar opportunity to take direct action for europeans in the 27 member states, for european rail passengers who will be able to travel more easily in their own countries and across the union from 2010 or 2012. that's concrete again. the same applies to the amendment of the right to financial compensation for passengers for train delays. today, the situation in the union is certainly better than in india and russia (i have my own personal experience), but the european taxpayer still cannot in practice claim compensation for poor railway work. i would remind you that last year parliament, together with the commission and the council, fought for similar compensation for airline passengers. this is again a very specific task for the european parliament. and for rail passengers, it's 25% of the ticket price for a delay of up to two hours and 50% of the ticket price for a delay of more than two hours. these proposals are much more significant at the level of the member states than the often sterile political disputes, for example on the constitution.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank mr jarzembowski for his contribution to the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the directive on the development of the community's railways and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and charging. the content of the directive was agreed following a conciliation procedure. this directive will be of importance for the further development of community railways, for passenger and freight transport. rail transport, which has a history of two centuries, is gaining new importance in the modern world due to environmental protection and congestion of road networks. the problem in implementing rail transport development will be the funds for modernisation and construction of new networks and equipment. poor countries will need substantial financial support to develop transport in a harmonious way. the agreed draft of the new directive will have a positive impact on the further development of rail transport. mr savary's report on the rights of train drivers and mr sterckx's report on rights and obligations complement the railway issues. i congratulate them on their development!
the commission's vice-president mr president, i should like to thank all the speakers who have shown by their speeches the importance of this common desire to develop the use of railways. i would like to point out to mr jarzembowski and mr savary that the commission has undertaken to present a report 30 months after the adoption of the directive, with legislative proposals, if necessary, based on recommendations from the european railway agency. so, as far as the certification of train drivers is concerned, we are aiming at creating a european railway area and we want to increase the mobility of railway staff. of course, ladies and gentlemen, all this can only succeed if the member states make the necessary investments, because we will only succeed in a railway policy if the transeuropean networks actually become a reality, if interoperability, through the ertms system in particular, is ensured on all the major networks. it is clear that this duty to invest is fundamental. it is only at this price that we can give the texts you are about to adopt their full effectiveness. as regards rail freight, it is true that there was initially a proposal for a regulation on compensation for non-compliance with the commitments on the quality of service in this sector. the commission has also made a number of proposals to the council, which it has not yet adopted. i must say, however, that i am very attentive to the development of rail freight. i am still concerned about the problems of punctuality and reliability of rail freight services. i will therefore report at the end of 2007 on the development of the quality of service and on the appropriate measures to overcome the problems. this will of course lead the commission to propose a freight-oriented european rail network. i hope to present it in october this year. of course, any compromise, as many of you have said, is indeed a step which can be considered as limited, but it is also a step which can be considered as progress. i believe that by adopting this third railway package parliament is sending a strong signal to all european citizens who can use the railway to a much greater extent. i would add that we are creating passenger rights around european citizenship. as far as air passengers are concerned, there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure that the law is enforced. for rail passengers, clear, simple information may be needed to enable them to understand what they are entitled to. but i think that we are sending a strong signal by showing our willingness to continue to build a genuine passenger charter which will make mobility more accessible to all, starting with the most modest. i believe that, and i thank once again all the members whose comments will be useful to us in following closely the application of these texts.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 25 september 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the reform of the sugar sector in its present form is unacceptable. it is primarily affecting beet growers and sugar factory workers. the exceptional activity of european companies in buying up sugar mills in eastern europe before the accession of these countries to the union suggests that this reform and the huge compensation for the owners of sugar mills who close them were already planned in this period. in the new member states, farmers invested heavily in modernising their farms, including beet production, during the accession period. after two years, it became clear that production had to be reduced and the new owners of the sugar mills would be the main beneficiaries of the compensation for the cessation of sugar production. in poland alone, it is estimated that about ten establishments will be closed. the proposed amendments, which give growers a higher amount of the restructuring fund, are good. however, i have my doubts about the support for the producers who have bought sugar mills in the last few years, because they bought them in order to close them down for a profit.
mr. chairman, please! the sugar market reform is one of those reforms whose meaning is very difficult to explain to farmers in the european union, and also to farmers in my country, poland. the administrative and financial pressure to reduce sugar production from 18 to 12 million tonnes is not convincingly justified. we are talking about the need to show solidarity with farmers from other continents, even though we know that it is not their interests that are at stake here: not the interests of farmers but the global interests of large corporations. it is in the interests of these interests that the european union, in a series of so-called reforms, is phasing out its agriculture bit by bit and embarking on a very dangerous path of becoming dependent on the world's food supply. such policies lead to a loss of food security, security that is so important for future generations. i fear that the time will soon come when all of us, not just farmers, will regret these irresponsible reforms that are being carried out today and whose bad effects we will all soon know.
mr. chairman, please! it should not surprise anyone that the sugar market reform has reduced the supply of sugar by 0.2 million tonnes in two years, a figure that is far from the expected figure. this is the result that polish meps had anticipated, as evidenced by our speeches both in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the european parliament's plenary session. the failure to achieve the intended targets demonstrates that sufficient incentives and incentives, including the possibility for beet growers to switch to other production methods, have not been created. the committee on agriculture and rural development has taken note of this and has proposed, inter alia, to increase the amount of aid reserved for growers and service providers from 10% to 50% of the aid granted to a sugar undertaking and to increase the additional payment to growers for the 2008/2009 marketing year from eur 237,50 to eur 260 per tonne of the amount they have renounced. it should also be noted that the commission is also not currently implementing the reform, which aims to maintain production in the most competitive regions. the changes proposed do not go against the problem, or even solve it, but make it worse.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. the sugar market reform launched in 2005 is not producing the expected results, despite the huge financial effort. despite the high financial incentives of eur 730 per tonne of sugar production reduction, sugar production in the community as a whole was reduced by only 1,1 million tonnes instead of the expected 6 million tonnes. the successive changes to the functioning of the sugar market proposed by the commission will not improve the situation but will actually make it worse, since they go against the main objective of the reform, namely to maintain sugar production in the most competitive regions. in my view, it is necessary: first, to create the conditions for the stable development of the most competitive sugar producers in the community, so that union production can compete on an increasingly open world market. secondly, it is necessary to make the most of the export potential for sugar within the limit agreed with the world trade organisation. thirdly, if these measures do not bring about a clear improvement in the sugar market, production will have to be reduced, but at a linear rate which is the same for all member states.
member of the commission. madam president, first of all i would like to thank all of you for all your valuable comments. i think that we see the complexity of this issue from the comments delivered here today. i would just like to make a few comments. first of all, i am convinced that what is now proposed – which i would describe as a big carrot for the sector – will work. the carrot is quite attractive because we now give farmers the possibility of getting 10% of the restructuring fund, and the restructuring fund for the year 2008/09 is eur 625. eur 62.5 plus the top-up that we pay from the restructuring money – eur 237.5 – comes to eur 300 per tonne that the farmers send back to the commission. what i consider the most important thing is that, for the first time, farmers can trigger the restructuring fund. this has not been possible before. previously it was only the industry. now farmers can say ‘i want to leave and i want my eur 300 per tonne, and i get the compensation for the reduction in prices on top of that’. and that is not a one-off payment: that continues. i completely agree with mr parish. i think that the alternative to sugar beet production is much more attractive now than it has been for decades, with the cereal prices, with the oil-seed prices. therefore, i presume that farmers will make their calculations and look at the bottom line of the most attractive way of arranging their future production. i mentioned retroactivity the first time that i spoke. retroactivity is there so that those who have delivered from the very beginning will not be punished; they will be compensated. it is for beet growers, for inulin syrup producers and for chicory growers. so there is no difference between the various types of beet production. so i am confident, and i am very thankful for the quick reaction from parliament, which i hope will allow us to find a political agreement in the council tomorrow so we can send a clear signal to the sector, to the beet growers, so they can start planning their next production season. i am quite sure that this will be to the benefit of the whole sector because, as was also mentioned here today, the alternative to not using this possibility will be a linear cut with no compensation. so i am quite sure that lots of calculations will take place on the various farms and areas where this may be attractive, to deliver the tonnes that we need to find the right balance in our sugar sector. once again, thank you very much – especially to the rapporteur, ms batzeli – for all the work done on this difficult dossier.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the rules of the common agricultural policy have long been clearly infringed in many sectoral markets. the sugar market is another example of this. the reform of this market adopted just two years ago contained harmful provisions for the new member states (npcs). it preferred a number of old member states which generated costly surpluses for taxpayers in the so-called b amounts. the reform was aimed, inter alia, at improving the competitiveness of the sector. the market was to be left to those who are most competitive. the amendment proposed today is designed to punish those who are most competitive. that's what the new coefficients and the increased retroactive compensation are for. is there any logic to this? when the interests of the old union are violated, the rules disappear. solidarity and equal opportunities are no longer relevant. this is true of the whole agricultural sector, where the richest countries receive the most subsidies. any attempt to remove discrimination against poorer npcs is met with disarming honesty by representatives of the old states - you're right, but we won't open pandora's box. now, in the case of the sugar sector, what was signed not so long ago can be changed! because it's against the interests of the old member states and big business.
mr. chairman, please! most of the recalls of chinese toys were related to excessive lead content. the short-term solution to this problem is to withdraw all objectionable articles post facto. but it is a short-term solution with many tragic consequences, such as the suicide of the head of a toy company. a much better and more promising solution is to set a safe limit on the amount of lead in toys and other articles. the current arrangements are based on a recommendation formula which is of little force, as evidenced by the wide variations between the lead limits in the various member states. we must introduce limits which are actually in force and binding on all member states. furthermore, while i welcome the operation of rapex, i believe that the most important thing to do when it comes to the safety of imported toys is to focus on coordinating action at community level. i would also like to stress that the union should apply a strict monitoring system to all products imported from china. the toy issue is just one part of a larger problem. in this debate, i would like to draw attention to something that seems to be forgotten. i don't hear a lot of voices about child safety in china. children in this country are often used to work in inhuman conditions. it is common to employ children, often under the age of ten, for example in brickworks. this is a very topical issue, especially in the context of the olympic games. according to a report by the international trade union confederation, factories producing gadgets for the olympics have been guilty of labor rights violations, including the slave labor of young children. although international organisations such as the fair play alliance are focusing on the conditions for the production of next year's olympic memorabilia, i believe that the european parliament should take a stand on this issue.
mr. chairman, please! we are responding to a crisis today because we fear for the health and lives of our children. in the resolution we are presenting, we are focusing on the safety of the toy product. we want it to be made to european standards. we want better controls, we want a safe product, because the european consumer, big and small, needs to feel safe. but that's not the only possible response. ladies and gentlemen, a toy is not just a market product and looking at it from the safety and price point alone is not enough. a toy is more than just a commodity it shapes the mind of a child, it supports his development, it influences his education and that is why i call on the commission to take these issues into account when revising the toy directive. commissioner, let's use this review to give our children something more than a chinese product that reflects american pop culture. our children must have a wider choice of toys, including toys with a european soul. they deserve it.
member of the commission. mr president, it was really a very interesting and very deep discussion and i am grateful to all of you. this discussion brought a lot of doubts and a lot of concrete measures, which, in a way, had already been anticipated by the commission. i am glad to say this because, as we can confirm, these measures are well elaborated upon together with parliament. i believe that, whatever kind of signals we could give, like the resolution you produced, or proposals by the commission, or trying to intervene with benchmarks from the commission to compare how the different member states work on the ground, we can succeed only if there is a common vision for the future, a vision which is based on open societies and free market, and in the first place, when we are talking about consumers, that we will not comprise on consumer safety. finally, i should like once more to reiterate that for me this is of the utmost importance and i will not compromise on this issue. several of you referred to rapex. rapex works 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, which means that there is no delay in notification through rapex. and i would like you to talk to your local communities to advertise rapex, because through these notifications we have, in many ways, already prevented dangerous goods from being put on the market. it is very important to reiterate that by recalling goods, economic operators are complying with an obligation under european legislation. it is not a matter of good will: it is because general product safety exists in european legislation. the lead paint in the mattel case was detected first in the course of the tests carried out on behalf of the european distributor. so we should never underestimate the efficiency of our rapex. we are also extending rapex-china, which is very important. just before i finish, i would like to inform you that i asked mattel what it has done with the recalled toys. i was thinking about the internet in particular and how those goods could be reached through the internet. i would like to tell you that all the toys have been destroyed, and this has been confirmed by mattel. i think that all of us should assume our obligations, and this is the only way the community can proceed.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first, two factual clarifications: first, european product quality and safety regulations apply to any product, no matter where it is made. whether a product is made in china or in europe, if it is to be placed on the european market, the same rules apply 100%, there is no difference at all. it's obvious. secondly, i repeat: the old toy directive also prohibits the placing on the market of dangerous toys. the toys that mattel recalled did not comply with european regulations and were not allowed to be marketed in europe. i now come to the two major complexes which have played a decisive role in this debate. first, the toy directive: the commission, of which i am a member, announced the revision of the toy directive at the beginning of 2005. early 2005! this has since been included in the commission's legislative programme. this legislative programme has been discussed in this parliament. i have not heard a member of parliament demand that the new toy directive be brought forward. it wouldn't be possible! this is such a complicated and enormous market that it is not something that can be shaken out of its sleeve. i guarantee you again: this new toy directive will be in place before the end of the year. the policy instruction to the officials who drafted them was: the strictest possible regulations on the safety of toys, the strictest possible! for example, this specifically refers to the fact that i have given instructions, long ago and not just now, that the carcinogenic, gene-altering and fertility-altering chemicals should not be used in toys. that's over 900! it's all been decided. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a very good one. market surveillance is the exclusive responsibility of the member states! what we can do - and are doing - is to strengthen and improve cooperation, but we cannot take responsibility. here a number of demands have been made on how we want to improve the system. i am very pleased about these demands, because they are exactly in line with what the commission presented to you earlier this year on the reform of the internal market. the commission has already proposed that the member states should be obliged to carry out internal and external market surveillance, and that is precisely what our proposals say. the member states should be obliged to provide the appropriate resources - that is in our proposal. the member states should be obliged to exchange important information immediately - that is what our proposal contains. and finally, it was proposed that strict penalties and sanctions should be imposed on those who break the rules - that is also included in our proposal. i therefore urge you, the european parliament, and the council, which is not here, to consider and adopt the commission's proposals from the beginning of this year as quickly as possible. then the greater part of what is rightly required here today will have been accomplished! (applause from the centre)
i have received six draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 26 september 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the flow of goods is a connected vessel. dangerous toys made in china are a problem for all of us. many millions of them found their way out of asia and into europe, the united states. who's responsible for this? the manufacturer, the subcontractor, the importer? all of them? in this age of increasing globalization, there is nothing more wrong than to think that the problems of others do not concern us. the union is seeking to meet these challenges and has therefore proposed a regulation on the placing of products on the market. a revision of the toy safety directive is also to be proposed by the end of the year. in my opinion, the problem of product introduction is linked to the following issues which are worth highlighting:- information for the consumer about the goods he buys; good information is the best protection for the consumer;- control of the market by the member states;- closer cooperation between the member states;- a new approach to the ce marking, which symbolises a product that is safe and complies with the requirements of the union. these are just some of the many proposals to improve the current situation in relation to the placing of products on the market and consumer protection. we are only at the beginning of a long journey, the end of which will be a market free of unregulated and dangerous goods. there is still much work to be done, but eu legislation is the right step to give us hope that the future will be free of the dangers posed by everyday objects, and that neither we nor our children will be endangered by them.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr george jarzembowski on the approval by the conciliation committee of the joint text for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/440/eec on the development of the community's railways and directive 2001/14/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the levying of charges for the use of railway infrastructure. the third railway package is a very important element of the transport legislation. the network should be opened up to international passenger traffic and the european commission should analyse the situation on the international transport market in order to decide on further liberalisation, including domestic transport.
we adopted an opinion on the changes to the existing reform of the union sugar market. this reform was prepared in 2005 and was intended to restore the balance in this market. unfortunately, i have the impression that all these proposals are very much limiting sugar beet cultivation to make room for cane sugar. i strongly object to that. we cannot allow the traditional sugar beet and sugar production in the european union to be eliminated. i believe that the new proposal put forward by the european commission in may 2007, which is intended to encourage the withdrawal of nearly 3.8 million tonnes of sugar from the union market, will also not produce the expected results. if the announced mandatory reduction of the amounts takes place in 2010, the reduction of the amounts cannot take into account changes in the amounts previously voluntarily and against payment to the restructuring fund, since, in accordance with the objective of the reform, the production reductions occurred in less competitive regions after receiving the appropriate financial compensation.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity. public executions for show must be opposed, where the body of the person being executed becomes an unhealthy stimulus for the crowds. the executions carried out on political orders by the authorities in china or iran must be strongly opposed. but we cannot accept a narrow view of the matter. we cannot agree to the closure of the debate on this subject, nor can we agree to the kind of censorship proposed by mr schulz in his speech. it's not up to you how long lech kaczyński will be president of poland, although you clearly want to. it's up to the poles who have their doubts. and they are not the only ones who have doubts about the global moratorium, about the propaganda and social campaigns proposed by the commission. i have one question: can you send out appeals for a moratorium on the death penalty in regions full of violence and violence from the comfort of a government chair in paris or lisbon? is it not hypocritical to expect today the abolition of the death penalty in iraq or afghanistan and to do nothing about the restoration of security and justice in those countries? i don't share the belief that abolishing the death penalty in other parts of the world is the solution to the problem of rape and brutality. yet, poland in 1988, almost twenty years ago, renounced the punishment of littering. we did it against our own public opinion. we did it in the name of european unity. we want to maintain this decision today, and perhaps our part of the world can afford alternatives to capital punishment. we want to cooperate in solidarity, including in the un, on this matter, but we cannot accept the european censorship of the death penalty proposed by mr schulz. the draft resolution unnecessarily mentions the issue of the european day against the punishment of waste. so i would like to remind you that the death penalty is not the only moment when we touch on the problems of life and death in politics, in law. if we are to have a dialogue in europe on the challenges of modern humanitarianism, we cannot confine ourselves to the death penalty, which we all share a common opinion on. we cannot avoid talking about abortion on demand, which this parliament and mr schulz's club are so eager to defend in europe and the world. we cannot avoid talking about euthanasia, about safeguarding human dignity in the rapidly developing field of biomedicine. if one of the days of the european calendar is to be a day of reflection on the humanitarian aspect of the legislators' work, we too must not turn a blind eye to all this, otherwise we will fall into hypocrisy.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. i'm forced to begin today's speech with a personal reflection. when i listened to the speech just now by the representative of the polish right, konrad szymanski, in this parliament, i was reminded of the scene from president ahmadinejad's speech yesterday at columbia university in new york. mr. pochmansky, you are the man! your law and justice government, the polish right, has put my country, my homeland, in the same category as countries like iran, belarus. president ahmadinejad yesterday boasted of the united states as the only country that still carries out the death penalty. polish public opinion is outraged that the government in warsaw was able to block the european union's day against the death penalty. this is the case that has brought the european union together, it brings european public opinion together, it brings european political parties together, it creates a democratic-liberal consensus that is independent of the ideological divisions in europe. i am convinced that the next elections in poland will show the polish society that the european union will be able to take this matter to the united nations with an initiative against the death penalty.
madam president! i disagree with what my colleague, mr konrad szymanski, said and i fully support what mr pinior said. poland has signed the sixth protocol abolishing the death penalty and has taken on a legal obligation to ensure that this punishment is not carried out on our territory. on 17-18 june this year, in luxembourg, the european foreign ministers, all the european foreign ministers, including the polish foreign minister, agreed that the european union should present a joint draft resolution against the death penalty. what happened after june 17 that changed poland's mind in september? of course, the internal situation, of course, the elections. but can it be said that poland has changed its mind? it's not poland, it's the polish government. the poles are not barbarians, they don't accept the death penalty. poles have repeatedly opposed the death penalty. and i have to tell you, also to mr szymański, that the public opinion polls indicate that 57% of poles do not want the death penalty. please keep this in mind when representing poland and convey what polish society thinks, taking into account this trend.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that the negotiations between the european union and mercosur should be the priority of our work in the coming months. despite the many problems we are currently facing, multilateral cooperation in the context of this region is much more beneficial, as it allows for the maintenance and simultaneous deepening of cooperation within all the mercosur associated countries, regardless of their economic position in the region. the successful conclusion of the eu-mercosur negotiations has the potential to lead to the creation of the world's largest free trade area, which will translate into a significant increase in trade and strengthen the position of both partners, the eu and the mercosur countries, in the global economy. it is clear that the biggest beneficiary of this agreement will be the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, both in the union and in latin america, and we all know that growing small and medium-sized enterprises mean new jobs, better quality of services and social welfare. i believe that the partnership with brazil, as our largest partner in the region, is very important and that we should develop it, but within the framework of cooperation with mercosur, which means that we should first develop associations within mercosur and only then, on its basis, possibly strengthen bilateral cooperation with individual latin american countries. the intensification of cooperation with only one country in the region could undermine the agreements reached so far and become a hindrance to the work on an association agreement with mercosur. i therefore believe, and i wish to stress this once again, that concluding an ambitious agreement with mercosur, which is beneficial for all the union and the latin american countries associated with mercosur should be our priority, and brazil, as the strongest country in the region, should be the driving force behind this negotiating process.
mr president, commissioner and minister, i'm sorry to hear that. first of all, i wanted to express my conviction that the portuguese presidency's strategy for achieving a strategic partnership between the european union and brazil is sound. i think the european union should bring this partnership to a conclusion as soon as possible. brazil's role in the modern global world is obvious, economically, culturally, also brazil's role in the united nations. the strategic partnership between the european union and brazil will help to boost relations and contribute to the political, cultural and economic order of the world today. i repeat, it will serve to improve the political order in the global sphere. i do not think that this strategic partnership will impede the development of a strategic partnership with mercosur. the partnership with mercosur requires a strategic partnership with brazil.
the commission's vice-president mr jarzembowski, these are proposals. they're not complete. we have put in a box at the end of each series of questions what the role of the european union should be. so i'm not prejudging the outcome of the debate. the question is open and it must be demonstrated that there is real european added value. we are not going to pretend to exercise any kind of guardianship over european cities. mr el khadraoui, i think you have summed up the main point very well: we want to make it a political priority. i think you have indeed said what i wish. it is, in fact, that elected officials can, by relying on each other, through good practices, through the best experiences, really, in a way, convince their compatriots to commit themselves to these bolder, more environmental urban policies. jean-marie beaupuy perfectly complemented what you said, by pointing out that success can only be achieved through an integrated approach, which implies that urban planners too are called upon to design the city in a certain way, in accordance with future mobility needs and in particular the construction of the peripheries: it must not be done just any way! i would like to thank jean-marie beaupuy in particular, as well as the group on urban mobility, which i am sure will be a valuable help to us.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i wanted to thank you for your interest in the subject of transportation in urbanized areas. this is a very serious and difficult subject, particularly when the union is concerned with urban policy. the very fact that the european commission is taking up the issue of cities suggests that we are dealing with a very interesting interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity. i very much support the commission's action in this area. i would like to ask the commissioner, in support of the commission's action in this area, and perhaps this is too early a question, what is the meaning of the wording that the commission will implement the partnership principle in this matter, i.e. what are the possible partnership instruments? is it about sharing experiences? is it a partner who is also a partner in some sense not just proposing but demanding? i would also like to take up mr jarzembowski's comments and ask for support for the committee on regional development to work more closely with the committee on transport and tourism on this matter.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the idea of creating a european institute of technology, which was born in 2005, deserves all the support we can give it. the proposed structure of the network of kics has the potential to become an excellent driver of innovation across the union. as rapporteur for the opinion committee on behalf of the legal affairs committee, my priority was to ensure that the legal basis was adequate and, consequently, to enable the institute to be financed on a permanent basis. in this context, the granting of agency status to the institute on the basis of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006, and in particular part c and article 47 thereof, is of particular importance, as is the commission's proposal to increase the margin in section 1a of the 2007-2013 budget, guaranteeing the institute eur 309 million. the establishment of the eit is particularly important for the scientific community in the new part of the european union, which has a huge untapped potential. that is why i wholeheartedly support the decision of the wroclaw authorities to have the board of directors or one of the knowledge communities have its headquarters in the city where as many as 140 000 students study. finally, i would like to warmly congratulate and thank reino paasilinna for her excellent work and congratulate her on the excellent report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is very good that despite the previous doubts we have today the chance to have a constructive vote in parliament on the creation of the european institute of technology. i would very much like this initiative to be truly european. i think we should emphasise the principle of equitable geographical distribution of knowledge and innovation communities. we should make sure that european funding for this project is a priority for a number of reasons, including the weakness of patent protection in europe. we can't just throw this burden on private business. europe needs this institution. the best evidence of this is the lively response of the entrepreneurs, local government and scientific community in lower silesia. before the legislative procedure on this issue is completed, we already have a special eit+ company, we are ready to commit structural money, we have the lists of intentions of the largest lower silesian companies, and finally we have 35,000 signatures of lower silesian residents who are calling for the institute or its institution to be located in wrocław.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express the hope that the knowledge and innovation communities of the european institute of technology will be spread evenly across the european union. this is of the utmost importance, as the institute should be an instrument that mobilises the entire community territory equally and contributes to the competitiveness and technological advancement and thus to the economic development of the whole european union, not just the old member states. i would also like to warmly support the polish proposal to locate the institute's governing board in wrocław. it is a thriving city at the crossroads of old and new europe, on the border of four countries: poland, germany, austria and the czech republic. it's a city with excellent universities and nearly 150,000 students. both the polish national authorities and the wroclaw local government and the polish academic community are fully prepared to carry out this task. i would like to emphasise that the location of the institute's management board and the knowledge and innovation community in wrocław is in no way contrary to the eit's core criterion of excellence, on the contrary. the polish research and academic environment is of a high european level and in many cases is among the best in the world. the institute must become an instrument that contributes to the growth of innovation across the european union. only in this way can we meet the challenges of a global knowledge-based economy.
mr. chairman, please! before the european institute of technology was born, it was already renamed the european institute of technology innovation. if this is to help his rise, i'm sure no one will object. it is worth noting that, in parallel to the work of the committee on industry, research and energy, important findings were made in our committee on budgets in the context of the european institute of innovation and technology. it was agreed that some eur 400 million would be allocated to this objective next year, and that the budget would be increased sixfold by 2013. the problem is, however, who to take away to give to this institute, since it was not provided for in the seven-year budget, not a single euro was provided for. it is as if we were to assume that the lisbon strategy, of which this institute was to be an essential element, was just a piece of paper and that it was a story told by politicians. the commission had informally or formally informed parliament of its intention to set up the institute, and we had not allocated the five euro we had to spend. it's evidence of some sort of incompatibility, or even schizophrenia. my city of wroclaw meets all the criteria to become the seat of the governing board of the european institute of technology. the european commission should take a decision on this as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, please! i hope i can talk for two minutes. i congratulate the rapporteur on the balanced report and thank the commissioner for the two and a half years of hard work. this project has changed a lot from what it was at the beginning, and these changes are very positive. europe's competitiveness and innovation is perhaps the most important issue of each successive presidency in recent years. and we are talking about the future competitiveness of europe, which the european institute of technology is to help create. i have four comments on this. first, the european union already has a joint research centre, a joint research council and is now launching joint technology initiatives. it is very important that we do not allow the fragmentation of european science and innovation in the european market. so that these institutions don't start working for themselves in isolation. this is a very important task, also for the european commission. secondly, it must be remembered that the institutions i have mentioned cannot also erase the differences between them. so let's remember that the european institute of technology is supposed to serve the full knowledge triangle. the cooperation between education and innovation is particularly important, as it is not de facto the responsibility of any european institution. so we have to promote education for innovation, because not all innovation requires research. sometimes all you need is a good engineer. thirdly, i support the establishment of the institute, but all these scientific and research and development institutions will not solve all the problems, because they only serve to squeeze innovation into the economy. we must ensure that this mechanism also works in the other direction, and this depends on whether our market is open or whether we have reasonably limited public aid, which is to say, it depends on how the common free european market works. and fourth, science, student exchange, exchange of talented engineers and innovation have always been the basis of integration between nations, between countries. this can be the case now, and that is why the institutions associated with the european institute of technology should be located in the new member states. and i urge you to do so.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. the proposed european institute of technology, often referred to as the flagship of european innovation, combines the three parts of the knowledge triangle: innovation, research and education. the key to the success of this project is, in my opinion, good cooperation between the academic and business communities. first of all, the european institute of technology must be able to raise large amounts of private funds. i would like to draw attention to wroclaw's preparations to become the headquarters of the institute, or one of the centres of its knowledge and innovation communities, in the european parliament today. wrocław can be a symbol of european history; it is often referred to as the strasbourg of central and eastern europe. wrocław is home to over 140,000 students and is one of the main research centres in poland. it has set up the eit+ innovation and technology centre, which is working towards the location of the institute in wrocław. one last thing. over the last decade, wroclaw has become a modern financial services city, a place that attracts capital from all over the world, a symbol of european creative energy and development, and a positive symbol of globalisation.
rapporteur. – madam president, i am presenting to you an own-initiative report recommended by an overwhelming majority in the committee on foreign affairs. our report advocates a common eu foreign policy on energy in order to face challenges of energy security. it would bring necessary and substantial added value to efforts made at national level, according to the subsidiarity principle, and would allow better protection of europe’s energy interests. what should this policy look like? it should be based on the following four principles: diversification; unity in defending the eu’s interests and the eu speaking with one voice; solidarity in crisis; and strengthened cooperation with partners. we need to develop a proactive broad energy diplomacy aimed at strengthening our cooperation with all major producer, transit and consumer countries, and to create an energy market based on the principle of reciprocity. the report welcomes the proposals of the third energy package, as adopted last week by the commission, which addresses these concerns and is in line with the report. the eu has to be active, determined and united. the geopolitical dimension of energy security has been so far neglected and it is high time to fill the gap. hopefully the new treaty will equip the eu with a legal basis for energy solidarity, thus allowing for the eu’s institutional competence to negotiate an energy security framework with third countries. the report recommends including in our agreements with producer and transit countries a so-called energy security clause which lays down a code of conduct and explicitly outlines measures to be taken in the event of disruption of supply. we should replace the current eu member states’ preference for energy unilateralism with a new common policy of energy solidarity based on a multilateralist approach. meanwhile, there is a necessity to establish a good practice of consultation among member states on strategic decisions which may affect the eu or one of its members. the new common foreign policy on energy must be consistent with all eu policies having an external aspect, e.g. internal market, competition, transport, trade, environment, consumer protection, budget and others. one cannot create a new common policy overnight. we propose, therefore, to adopt a gradual approach and furthermore, to be efficient, this new policy should be equipped with appropriate instruments. we suggest the creation of a new post of high official for foreign energy policy after the new treaty enters – hopefully – into force. this office would allow for the coordination of all the above-mentioned sectoral policies of the union and especially those aspects related to the external side of energy security, working under the authority of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, who would, in future, also be vice-president of the european commission. that would reinforce the synergies inside the union. this institutional novelty therefore constitutes an important anchorage of the new approach. we also propose to elaborate a precise roadmap indicating short-, medium- and long-term objectives with a specific timeframe for implementing them and obviously subject to the european parliament’s scrutiny. to be successful, we need to engage the eu’s internal dynamic and to secure the necessary public support. the citizens’ interest is in secure and affordable energy. this interest of our citizens should be at the core of the project, thus constituting one of the targets of our ‘europe of results’ approach. common threats to secure energy for europe should therefore produce a common response. but we may also achieve more: a new common policy can become a trigger for further european integration, giving it a new impetus and new strength to the eu as a global actor. a demanding and courageous approach should be an ambition of the european parliament. today’s european union started a long time ago with energy. then, it was coal giving an initial push to our reconstruction. we should not miss the opportunity to let it happen once again. we need energy for europe, indeed, both in literal and in metaphorical terms.
on behalf of the uen group. we have a great opportunity for a common energy policy. the commission's latest communication shows that we are on the right track. the report by mr saryusz-wolski is also an important step in this direction. firstly, we have a proper presentation of energy trade issues in the context of foreign policy. the european union has long avoided this. it was only russia's hostile energy policy that made us realize that energy trade had become a purely political instrument. the report includes energy security among the union's security priorities. we have a well-defined principle of solidarity and a requirement for diversification of suppliers and transmission corridors. we have legitimate doubts about the northern gas pipeline, the need for russia to respect the principles of the energy charter, to be involved in the wto and to extend our energy policy beyond the context of the member states of the european union. for all these reasons, our political group is eager to support this report. i congratulate the rapporteur!
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to point out that from the point of view of individual countries and societies, the three most important security considerations are energy security, food security and personal security. i would therefore like to thank the author of the report on european external energy policy, mr saryusz-wolski, for his comprehensive reflections on the energy security of the european union. i hope that the common energy policy will be enshrined in the treaty reforming the european union. the polish people, whom i represent, are experiencing firsthand the effects of divergent interests in energy policy between the member states. a clear example of this is the implementation by germany and russia of the baltic gas pipeline investment, contrary to the interests of both poland and the other baltic countries. two years ago, at the council of the european union, poland put forward a proposal for a common energy policy, which can be summed up as 'one for all, all for one'. it is good that the report we are discussing today is moving in this direction, proposing common solutions which would implement the principle mentioned above. there is no doubt that without unity in defending the european union's energy interests, without respect for the principle of solidarity in crisis situations, the european union will not be seen as a single organism.
madam president! this excellent report by jacques saryusz-wolski shows that security of supply is the most important aspect of the union's energy policy today. already today, half of our dependence on foreign suppliers is as high as 57 percent for gas and 82 percent for oil. this means that any crisis between the supplier and the european union, or between the supplier and the transit country, can have a disastrous impact on our economies and our citizens. it is therefore all the more important to introduce the principle of solidarity between member states in the event of crises into our legal order with the reform treaty. however, in order to ensure that this principle is respected in practice, it is necessary to set up a system of strategic reserves, to increase the number of links between transmission networks and to set up a well-functioning response mechanism to provide technical assistance to the countries most affected by crises. solidarity between the member states must also be reflected in the common external energy policy, and it is good that the commission is assuring us of its willingness to develop such a policy, as we heard from commissioner piebalgs. the member states must be persuaded to abandon their particularism in favour of a common approach and the common good. it is important that this policy be based on the principle of diversification of both sources and suppliers, and finally of energy supply routes and methods. this means that new infrastructure projects such as the odessa-brody-płock pipeline and the nabucco gas pipeline need political and financial support. but it also obliges us to oppose projects that divide the community, such as the baltic gas pipeline. finally, the european union's energy clauses should become a permanent element of the european union's relations with its neighbours, especially its immediate neighbours, within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, along the lines of the anti-terrorism clauses which we are proposing here in the european parliament for agreements with third countries.
migration is not just a problem in southern europe. it applies to the whole of the union, including poland, my country, which is in the north-east of the continent. poland's eastern border is the longest land border in the union, and we are responsible for keeping it sealed. frontex is also in warsaw, and we expect so much from it. we have given frontex tasks and responsibilities, so we should also provide it with the means and tools to be able to act and protect our borders well. in recent years, almost 3 million of my countrymen have left poland, taking advantage of the rules of the common market and moving to the countries of the european union. but we also have thousands of visitors from the far east: koreans, vietnamese, not to mention ukrainians and belarusians. we need them, they're building poland. i therefore welcome the reports by lilla gruber and sánchez, especially the report on immigration policy, because its aim is to civilize immigration by creating channels for legal immigration. these two reports complement each other perfectly. if we add to this the directive on criminal sanctions for the employment of illegal immigrants, which the libe committee is currently working on, we have a good legal basis for eu immigration policy. i am glad that parliament is playing such a big role here. and one last note: please don't look at immigration as a problem. let us see immigration as an opportunity for an ageing europe! let us use the enthusiasm and energy of the people who come to us legally, let us involve them in the construction of new states and our common europe!
mr. chairman, please! it's worth noting the distribution of accents in the report on illegal migration. this report focuses primarily on the mediterranean basin. secondly, it puts too much faith in community instruments. we all know that the responsibility for border control lies with the member states. and in this respect, despite the appeal to the principle of solidarity or the existence of frontex, much still depends on the readiness of the specific services of the member state. that's why a balanced approach to immigration policy is so important. the situation at the east-south land border also requires attention, funding and joint action, even if this direction is currently less attractive to illegal migrants. the enlargement of the schengen area may, in turn, exacerbate the problems of emigration. this is why the union's policy on legal migration is so important. however, to manage legal labour migration, we must first address the exploitation of the potential and mobility of labour within the union. the existence of transitional periods for the opening of labour markets to nationals of new member states, or the selective abolition of such periods by opening them only to highly qualified workers, seriously undermines any ideas of a community emigration policy towards third-country nationals. the cultural and geographical aspect of legal migration is also important. it is natural that member states, because of their geographical location, cultural and linguistic proximity, prefer certain third countries with which they wish to conduct migration policies. these are countries with which, through proximity, familiarity, or even a language, it is easier for their citizens to integrate with european culture and values. that's why this kind of legal emigration has a double added value.
acting president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief. this was certainly one of the most detailed, detailed and richest debates i have had the honour of presiding over, attending and participating in in this council, in this european parliament. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. all in all, i think i can legitimately conclude that the european union has a coherent and comprehensive strategy to deal with migration issues and that it is on the right track in implementing the policies that give substance, that give practical effect to this strategy. there will certainly be hesitations here and there; there will be doubt here and there; there will certainly be, also here and there, the need to be a little more ambitious, but, as i say, all considered in the context in which we live, in the difficulties we face, i think we are on the right track and that we can, and we must, move forward with determination in the implementation of the true global strategy for migration. we have two key words which are the basis of this policy. those words are humanity and solidarity. humanity because it is a policy based on the people and directed at the people and this aspect of humanity cannot and is never forgotten by the presidency. as has been said here, we are talking about people, people who, by seeking acceptance in our societies, are legitimately seeking a better life for themselves and their families. it is a human will and desire that should be respected. and we also talk about solidarity because, as has been said here, this is not a question, it is not a problem that can be solved by one member state alone, or even two or even three. it is a problem which affects everyone and which therefore has and should have a response from everyone. fortunately, we believe that, in an increasingly clear way, the awareness of the need to combine these two concepts - humanity and solidarity - is increasingly present, as i said, in the definition and implementation of european immigration policies. we have set up a common instrument to combat illegal immigration, an agency called frontex, which has been in existence for two years. let us say that you are taking your first steps, which in this period, in our view, have, despite the difficulties, proved to be good. we must of course make a greater effort to equip it with the necessary instruments so that it can naturally, but more effectively, more quickly, more perfectly, fulfil the functions for which it was created. but we think that this instrument, which is a collective instrument, has so far given good indications of the necessity and goodness of its creation. the need to increase dialogue with third countries, particularly those countries which are at the origin of migration flows, was also very well mentioned here, in the context of illegal immigration. this dialogue is absolutely essential and, as has been said here, i fully agree that unless we consider, analyse and in some way tackle the causes of migration flows in the countries of origin, we will not have solved this problem once and for all. we have an increased dialogue with africa in this area and we hope that the next europe-africa summit can also produce very important results in the field of emigration and the dialogue on emigration with the countries of origin and, finally, legal emigration. the portuguese presidency has put legal emigration high on its agenda for the six-month period. the commission has also been active in this area and has put forward proposals which we consider very interesting and which will be discussed during our presidency, during which time, as i say, we hope to make important progress. in short, despite the difficulties, despite the difficult problems we have to face, we think we are on the right track. here and there, perhaps, we should be a little more ambitious. here and there we may have to be a little faster, but i think no one in good faith can deny that much has been achieved in recent years. the council naturally values and encourages this debate with the european parliament. the question of codecision and the reform treaty has been raised here. as you know, the reform treaty is based on a mandate which has been approved by the european council, and therefore by all the member states. such decisions must be taken by all the member states, not just, of course, by the presidency. in any case, i believe that the reform treaty, like the constitutional treaty, makes very significant steps towards extending the codecision procedure in many legislative initiatives within the union.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too thank all those who have spoken in this extremely important debate. i believe that europe must look, really look, at this global phenomenon which affects millions of children, women, men and affects all the continents. firstly, it was said - and i agree - that illegality must be fought by taking action against traffickers and those who exploit illegal immigrants and by a return policy which is both credible and fully respectful of individual rights and the dignity of every human person. the european union has already organised return activities, it can continue to do so and i recall that on many occasions return projects have been delegated to the office of the un high commissioner for refugees, precisely to ensure maximum transparency in respect of the rights of individuals. i believe that a european policy must really link aid, respect for human rights, trade policy with africa and immigration. a very effective phrase by mr watson which i personally share: "we either take their products or we take the people who come from those countries". we must reflect on this, precisely because the strategy must be global and cannot exclude trade relations and development aid policy with africa. control of the external borders is also essential. some have spoken of it, others have expressed doubts. i think frontex should be supported. it is a sustained process, because as happened this summer, not only were lives saved that would otherwise have been lost, but frontex operators have arrested a significant number of people: 400 people, who are members of trafficking organizations, have been stopped, have been handed over to the authorities. it's an important number because it only refers to the summer that just passed. so in the 2008 budget, i hope that this parliament will recognise the need to give frontex more resources. i know that there is an amendment which proposes to freeze up to 30% of the administrative expenditure on the operation of frontex immediately, and i hope that this proposal will be reconsidered and that the budget will be increased, while maintaining full control and responsibility over the expenditure activities. of course, there's been a lot of talk about economic immigration. the proposal i am going to make in detail, for a european labour card, does not mean that we will decide from brussels how many immigrants are needed in each country. this will remain the task of the national states and the national market of each country, so i want to reassure all those who have questions or concerns. in other words, each member state will be free to decide how many non-community workers are needed for each category. but one thing we can no longer do, ladies and gentlemen, is say that we as a member state do not need anyone and then continue to tolerate illegal immigration and the exploitation of undeclared work. that is not possible because we will need european rules. it's clear that immigration brings us a universal value, some have said: the mobility of people. i believe that there are opportunities, but also rights, and rights are always accompanied by duties! we cannot imagine a policy which looks at rights and does not look at duties. we cannot and will not impose our europe, our laws or our finances on someone else's house if our partners do not agree. and so here is what we should make very clear, that our idea, our policy is that of a partnership, is that of a grand pact with the countries from which immigrants come through which immigrants transit. this pact must include the absolute respect - and it is an essential component - on our territory of our laws, our fundamental rights, our most absolute and universal values: the european union is a great example of this. and that leads to integration. integration of immigrants means respect for their history, their religion, because they are sources of enrichment for all of you, but it also means respect for our traditions, our history, our culture and our religion. that's why integration, as i see it, is participation. we cannot legally integrate those who do not want to integrate, those who are not ready to take a step forward, those who think that forced marriages or polygamy can still be tolerated in europe. this cannot be accepted because it is our law and it is our universal values. that is why we are calling for the establishment of a european community which is not only a european community but also a european community of the people. this is steadfastness against the lawless. some people have said that, but i particularly share this thought: it is the immigrants who commit crimes who are the worst enemies of the honest immigrants who work and earn regularly. because we have to explain this as a policy, to citizens who are concerned, that they should not be afraid of immigration as such, but of those who commit crimes. we have a duty to ensure that those who commit crimes are punished, because otherwise we do not give any signal of difference to the citizens and we leave this fear, this concern, which then becomes racism and becomes xenophobia, which is a horrible but growing phenomenon in the territory of the european union, uncontrolled. in conclusion, mr president, politics has to make choices. i believe that our choice must be a global pact of rights and duties between equals, between equal partners, with no one imposing and the other accepting, nor reciprocal impositions that we cannot accept. and that is necessary because we are talking about human beings, about their dignity, about their rights. we are not talking about a recipe for economic growth or a recipe for bureaucracy.
in writing. illegal immigration is a rather paradoxical term. i grew up in a political system where certain words were dictated by the government and propaganda was considered a priori positive or negative, like internationalism was good and cosmopolitanism was bad. i hope we don't fall into a similar semantic trap. if xenophobia is bad, then protecting a country or the european union from illegal immigration shouldn't be seen as a very good thing. it's more of a necessary evil. in my city, poznan, i saw a sign on the wall that said, "no one is illegal". it's worth thinking about whether a man can be illegal at all. the deadly danger of crossing the union's borders is not limited to the atlantic and the mediterranean. last week, three chechen girls died at the ukrainian-polish border, as they fled with their mother from a tragedy that had struck their homeland. no wonder people are trying to escape chechnya, even at the risk of losing their lives. the several million immigrants in europe who have come to the union illegally are a very real problem. but in solving this problem, we must remember the universal values that underpin european integration. we also need to remember that immigration is not a negative thing. for one simple reason: man is not a negative thing.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the eit concept has been evolving in the course of a lively debate on how to promote innovation in the european union. it was originally intended to be the european equivalent of the massachusetts institute of technology, as part of the lisbon agenda, a strategy to compete with the united states. today, in a rapidly changing global environment, it is more about a network of knowledge and innovation centres, kics, coordinated by the central government. this was reflected in the separation of two budget lines in the amendments tabled by the european parliament to the 2008 draft budget (separate funding of the network and the coordinating body). the problem of financing this project seems close to being solved, since the european commission has proposed a revision of the financial perspective 2007-2013, namely raising the ceiling in heading 1a, with reductions in other headings. this is further proof that parliament was right to signal that the budgetary appropriations for the lisbon strategy were too low. i support the ambitions of wroclaw, which is vying for the seat of the european institute of technology. however, i would point out that better r & d funding and the creation of a new institution are not sufficient prerequisites for europe's competitiveness and innovation. the business culture, the willingness to take risks and the practical links between r & d and private enterprise are decisive.
mr. chairman, please! today we voted and adopted mr duff's report on the right of citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals to vote and to stand as candidates in elections to the european parliament. i cannot support this report because, contrary to the intentions of the applicants, i believe that this way of voting and standing for election to parliament does not promote good neighbourly relations between countries, especially those bordering on each other. countries with a large percentage of national minorities have for many years developed standards for avoiding national conflicts. the way in which these conflicts are being resolved may lead to a renewal of these conflicts, which is contrary to the spirit of peaceful coexistence among the peoples of europe. because we are dealing with the possibility of voting and running for office for people who are not citizens of a given country. abuses, such as fictitious residency, are likely to occur in order to weaken the power of the country's voice and to influence the outcome of elections through manipulation. and checking that information is not easy and will be expensive. this kind of vote will also strengthen the separatist movements, and i don't think that's what we're looking for in modern europe. i regret that for reasons that are not entirely clear, we are imposing our will on countries from above by interfering with their electoral laws.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the european union is a major energy consumer, dependent on external power sources, which are characterised by uncertainty and the possibility of destabilisation. in the specific case of russia and the resource-rich cis countries, an additional, practically confirmed, uncertainty factor is the propensity to use energy weapons for political purposes. this should mobilise the european union to join the ranks and show solidarity in times of crisis. but it is happening too slowly, because of the different interests of countries that are not as vulnerable to energy blackmail as the post-communist countries. the report by jacques saryusz-wolski is a step in the right direction. it is a call for eu-russia relations to be based on mutual trust and respect for the principles of the energy charter. the parallel efforts of the european commission to liberalise the eu energy market, with gazprom in the background, provide an important context for the current debate. this leads to a stronger push for the principle of separating production from distribution. the reluctance to liberalize is seen in the same countries that are willing to rely on bilateral energy contracts with russia and capital cooperation with russian state-owned companies. it is no coincidence that these are the remnants of the public energy monopolies of continental europe. this is delaying the desirable freedom of choice of energy suppliers and the development of a community policy of solidarity in this strategic area.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr saryusz-wolski on the common european foreign policy in the field of energy. in line with the energy policy action plan adopted by the council in march 2007, we must make every effort to develop a common external energy policy for the european union, equipped with the right instruments to ensure its smooth functioning. i would like to stress the need for solidarity and cooperation between member states, for diversification of energy sources and for continuing to develop and improve cooperation in this field. i agree that a detailed roadmap should be agreed, which will indicate the stages of implementation of this policy. the commission should make a proposal on this as soon as possible. it is also important that member states consult each other and the european commission on strategic decisions concerning agreements with third countries in this area. the proposal to appoint a high-level foreign policy officer for energy responsible for coordinating all policies covering the external aspects of energy security is timely and deserves further consideration. this position should help to enhance the protection of eu member states' interests in negotiations with foreign partners.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! legal and illegal immigration was identified as one of the main challenges facing the european union. the human dimension of this phenomenon is clearly revealed. i visited the african refugee camps in malta, and i spoke with the mediterranean patrol and the officials in charge. at the same time, news of the tragedy of a chechen family in bieszczady came to confirm the universal nature of this phenomenon. coming from a country that has been a source of economic and political emigration for centuries, it is hard to remain indifferent to the tragedy of refugees who see the union as a promised land. it is from this perspective that i look at the two reports that have inspired the debate in the european parliament, giving an insight into the scale of the phenomenon of immigration and the current state of community policy in this field. i agree that europe because of its demographic situation needs controlled migration channels that can reduce the shortage of labour, but also reduce the extent of the grey area and pathology. these are problems identified by the eu's specialised agency frontex. the proposed solutions, such as 'burden sharing', deserve serious consideration. the birth of a community well-equipped, legally and financially, immigration policy is overdue. better late than never!
on behalf of the uen group. the fava report was based on evidence, but instead of making hard conclusions it only created an atmosphere of suspicion towards the member states. marty's report is written with even less responsibility for the word. all the findings are based on anonymous sources, which makes them impossible to verify. this methodology of work gives no guarantee that marty's work has not been manipulated by agencies and organizations unwilling to cooperate transatlantically in the fight against terrorism. i am very grateful to minister antunes for pointing out that international law does not sufficiently address the problems of terrorism. none of the reports we've been discussing has done anything about it. the official investigation and explanations provided by poland are in line with our principles of civilian control over the special services. these rules are in line with european standards in this respect. and that's why i don't see the point of repeating this debate.
the reports by mr favy and mr marty, a senator from the council of europe, share the same denominator: they are devoid of any evidence. it's a web of loose diversions by reporters on the extradition of terror suspects and alleged secret cia facilities in europe. we have already discussed mr fava's report many times and there is no time for another discussion. and mr. marty, i'd like to offer my sincere congratulations. from the beginning, his goal was to make his name known, and he succeeded. both of his reports were at an embarrassing level, which compromises him as a lawyer. apparently, he thought it was worth the price of political exposure. among other things, he did not allow the persons who had come to him on their own, including the members of the european parliament mentioned in the report, for whom he did not have time, to be heard. he did not respond to the repeated invitations of the polish authorities. he couldn't explain it to the foreign affairs committee of our parliament. mr. marty has a serious problem distinguishing the categories of fact from conjecture. i understand that would threaten the pre-established tactical thesis and strategic goal of political self-promotion. it is regrettable that he used the council of europe's badge in this procedure.
mr. chairman, please! the honourable member was talking about president bush, and i would remind you that he said nothing about europe, so let us not refer to him. i'm not going to deal with mr. fava's report. we've talked about it a lot. let's focus on mr. marty's report. we might as well talk today about abstract painting, which, though sometimes incomprehensible, nevertheless exists. a cia operation, a prisoner in my country, poland, cannot be proven, just as evidence pointing to the existence of a yeti in the himalayas and the loch ness monster in scotland does not presume the existence of these creatures. the report in this house mentions cia prisons that may have been located on american military bases in europe. there could have been a ufo squadron landing in the parliament grounds tonight, because there could have been, but they didn't land, although if we call a commission of inquiry, it might find something else.
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to refer to the report by mr dick marty, which is so often referred to here. and i want to address this because there's a very strong confusion of objective truth with subjective judgment. i represent a party that is in opposition to the current government and was in opposition to the previous government; a party whose supporters did not vote for either the current or the previous president; a party that is a strong advocate for human rights and civil liberties. and it would be incredibly useful for us if we could have such ammunition to fight our political opponents in poland. unfortunately, we do not have this ammunition, because it does not exist, because there was also an investigation by the standing committee (in which the opposition sits) in the polish parliament, which showed nothing, as well as an investigation by the ombudsman. so let's not confuse subjective judgment with facts. there are no such facts.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, let me say again that you will have to address these questions to the commission. it is she, the commission, who is naturally competent to give you a full answer to the questions you have just put to me.
acting president of the council. in reply to the question put by the honourable member, the presidency would like to refer to the report on the implementation of the overall transparency policy presented by the previous finnish presidency to the council on 11 december 2006, which contains the latest assessment by the council on the impact of the new transparency measures on the effectiveness of the council's work. according to the preliminary conclusions contained in that report, also preliminary, a more detailed review of the effects of the new transparency measures should be carried out by the end of 2007, when more significant practical experience has been gained with regard to their implementation and impact on the council's work. i can inform you that in the first half of 2006 a total of 98 public deliberations and debates were held in accordance with the conclusions of the european council of 15 and 16 july 2006 and in accordance with article 8 of the council's rules of procedure.
acting president of the council. what i can confirm and assure you is that this is a matter which is dear to the portuguese presidency and that we will do everything possible to move this process forward. i cannot guarantee you specific dates for it at this stage, but i can assure you of the interest and commitment of the portuguese presidency in advancing this issue of transparency.
acting president of the council. the european union's approach is essentially based on close coordination. at internal level, particular attention was paid to the need to ensure complementarity and mutual reinforcement between the actions of the european community, those of the council and those of the member states. on the external front, the european union has been a key member of the joint coordination and follow-up council established under the 2006 afghanistan compact. the council decision of 12 february 2007 to move forward with the mission the pairs in afghanistan should be understood in the context of this wider strategy. eupol is currently in the projection phase. with this mission, the european union is demonstrating its intention to play a more active role in policing in relation to the wider issue of the rule of law. this mission will of course be linked to the commission's commitment to reforming the justice sector. all these efforts have the common objective of strengthening the sovereignty of afghan institutions. since 2001, afghanistan has made very significant progress with the establishment of representative political institutions, media freedom, the establishment of institutions in the security sector, improvements in the field of health and education, as well as in human rights and the status of women, the appointment of a functional supreme court and the establishment of an advisory panel for the appointment of senior officials. the european union has played a key role in this process, contributing €3.7 billion since 2002. the european union continues to step up efforts to ensure that its development aid reaches afghans in all parts of the territory. the increased emphasis now placed on governance and the rule of law is intended to strengthen action in other areas. the commission has been developing programmes in the fields of rural development, health and governance and will give financial support to some civil activities carried out by member states through provincial reconstruction teams. the european union strongly believes that, as stated by the european council of 14 december 2006, the security and development of afghanistan are interdependent. that is why the european union has always maintained its long-term commitment to afghanistan through a strong and balanced strategy.
thank you very much, minister, for that clarification. i would just like to refer to one important point, also after the speeches made by the representatives of the european commission in afghanistan to the foreign affairs committee of our parliament. i would like to ask the council whether it intends to step up humanitarian aid to that country and to strengthen efforts to rebuild civil society. because i think that military presence alone is not enough, even though my country is involved, which also shows a certain will to stabilize the region.
acting president of the council. my answer to the question of the fight against organised crime and our assessment and the council's answer are contained in my opening statement, and i have nothing further to add to that.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr member, as you are certainly aware, the council adopted conclusions at its meeting on 8 and 9 june 2006, following the presentation by the commission of the mid-term review of the european road safety action programme in march 2006. in these conclusions, the european union transport ministers and the european commission agreed on the need to strengthen road safety measures and initiatives at community or member state level. consequently, in october 2006, the european commission adopted two legislative proposals on the issue of enhancing road safety and, thanks to the excellent cooperation between the european parliament and the council, the two co-legislators quickly reached an agreement on the proposal for a directive on the rear-view mirror fitting of heavy goods vehicles, which entered into force in august 2007 and whose implementation will be completed by 31 march 2009. the commission estimates that this new legislative measure could save up to 1 200 lives on eu roads by 2020. the council is currently examining the proposal for a directive on the safety management of road infrastructure, on which, pending the opinion of the european parliament, it hopes to adopt a general approach at the council meeting on 1 and 2 october. the commission estimates that some 7 000 injuries could be avoided and some 600 lives saved each year if the measures proposed in this draft legislative instrument were implemented. i would also like to tell the honourable member that he can be sure that the council will look positively at all the road safety measures and initiatives which the european commission proposes to it in the context of its current efforts to reduce the number of deaths and injuries on community roads.
acting president of the council. i too, being portuguese, have had a very dramatic experience in our country with road safety. portugal has a problem, or has had a problem, in this area and we have made very important efforts which have, over the last few years, allowed what was a scourge, that is, very frequent deaths on portuguese roads, particularly in road accidents, to be reduced in a very significant way through systematic and persistent action by the government. but it is a problem that we still know very closely, that still affects us very directly and that we are very attentive to and that we are very sensitive to. i said at the end of my speech that the council, in this case the portuguese presidency, will look with all its attention and will be fully available to consider and welcome any proposal that the commission may wish us to make to the council with a view to further improving the current efforts to reduce the number of deaths and injuries on community roads. as i say, the presidency, the member state holding the presidency, is particularly sensitive to this issue because it too has to deal with this problem in the country and is therefore also willing, as i say, to pay close attention to any proposals in this regard which the commission may wish to put forward or put to the council.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, i have already had the opportunity to briefly refer to the accession process for croatia. i shall now go into a little more detail, but at last as briefly as possible, also given the time we have available. i can tell you, mr president, that the accession negotiations with croatia are well under way and have made significant progress this year. two chapters were opened and provisionally closed: chapter 25 - science and research, and chapter 26 - education and culture. however, 10 other chapters have been opened. i would say: chapter 3 - freedom to provide services, chapter 6 - company law, chapter 7 - intellectual property law, chapter 9 - financial services, chapter 10 - information society and the media, chapter 17 - economic and monetary policy, chapter 18 - statistics, chapter 20 - enterprise and industrial policy, chapter 29 - customs union, and finally chapter 32 - financial control. in addition, the council intends to hold its 5th accession conference at ministerial level with croatia on 15 october to open chapter 28 - health and consumer protection. other chapters will follow later in the year. however, a great deal of work still awaits us. in particular in areas critical to the success of any candidate country, such as judicial and public administration reform, the fight against corruption and economic reforms. the council also continued to urge croatia to improve its administrative capacity and to effectively transpose and implement the acquis in order to be able to meet its obligations of membership in a timely manner. in order to maintain this momentum and to ensure the quality of the process, we would like to recall that further efforts are needed to meet the requirements of the negotiating framework, including croatia's obligations under the association and stabilisation agreement, as well as the implementation of the accession partnership.
acting president of the council. i am very grateful to you for your kind words, mr president, and i must also say that it is a pleasure and an honour for me to be here with you, discussing and debating, although not always in agreement, such important subjects on the european agenda and on the european union. the honourable member is asking me to do the impossible: to give him a date for croatia's accession. i cannot do that because that accession, or that date, will perhaps depend more on croatia than on the european union itself and it might perhaps be better placed for croatia than for the european union for the simple reason that, of course, as you know, being part of the union, entering the union, naturally responds or corresponds to progress in dossiers, to the fulfilment of criteria and conditions. what i can tell you absolutely unequivocally is that croatia has a strong european perspective and has a strong prospect of joining the european union and that the portuguese presidency is committed to moving this process forward in its presidency and that it is of course also committed, together with the commission, to overcoming the obstacles that may arise. in november we will have, as i said in reply to another question, an analysis of the state of play of the negotiations with croatia. the commission will present us with an analysis and a proposal, and as you know, the commission plays a key role here, and it is familiar with the dossiers and accompanies them with the competence and detail which are obvious and which are the commission's own competence, and therefore whatever the commission has to say to us, whatever the commission has to propose and recommend to us, its analysis will indeed be very important for what the council will decide on the future and the continuation of the negotiating process with croatia. it is true that administrative matters are often the most difficult and that matters relating to the judicial system, which are essentially matters which have a lot to do with the internal organisation of the member states themselves, are those areas in which the member states, from the point of view of the organisation of the state itself, have to make the greatest investments and, possibly, also the most profound and, let us say, the most painful reforms. we are confident that croatia will be able to overcome these possible difficulties and that, in accordance with its wishes and also in accordance with the wishes of the european union, it will also be a member of our union in the not too distant future.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, let there be no doubt that climate change is a global challenge that requires global solutions. for their part, european leaders decided to send a strong signal to the international community of their determination to fight climate change by making the following commitments with a view to launching negotiations on a comprehensive agreement after 2012: until an agreement is reached, the european union makes an independent and firm commitment to achieve by 2020 a reduction of at least 20% of greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels. secondly, the union intends to commit itself to a reduction of up to 30% if other developed countries make comparable reductions and the more economically advanced developing countries make an appropriate contribution. the european union considers that it is time to consider the steps to be taken after 2012 and how to arrive at a global approach with the participation of a large number of countries. continuing a more permanent dialogue with the united states will be essential for the preparation of the post-2012 negotiations, which are due to start at the climate conference in bali later this year, and to which i have already had the opportunity to refer in my answer to an earlier question. in this context, two important meetings are planned before the conference, the results of which will certainly be a very positive added value for the bali negotiations. the first will be the high-level meeting of the united nations general assembly on climate change, which took place in new york on 24 september, and the second, the meeting of the major economies on 27 and 28 september in washington, from which the european union expects an important contribution to advancing the international process within the united nations. in addition, the european union and the united states agreed at the vienna summit in june 2006 to establish a high level dialogue on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development to build on existing bilateral and multilateral initiatives and to pursue the implementation of the vienna summit declaration and the glenn eagles action plan on climate change, clean energy and sustainable development adopted at the g8.
acting president of the council. i very much agree with you, mr president, that we must convince our cousins, and since we are cousins, we hope that they will be convinced or convincible. i must tell you that, indeed, the road to bali and the road after bali is a difficult road, it is a complex road. no one doubts this, but it is clear that through persistent, concerted action we can, i hope, succeed and, in any case, i believe that through a permanent dialogue that has been established in particular with our cousins on the other side of the atlantic, despite everything, some differences, some different perspectives on this climate issue have been overcome. i think that in this respect the conclusions on climate change recorded at the g8 meeting in germany and the possibility that there was, or the agreement that there was on the fundamental role of the united nations on the issue of climate change, was a positive indication of the possibility of further progress and new agreements on this issue of climate change. it is important, as i have said, that the european union maintains its leading role, as an actor opening the way for other actors in the defence of the environment and our planet.
acting president of the council. the multiplicity of dialogues between the european union and pakistan in the context of that country, as well as the role played by the armed forces, form part of the overall analysis on which the council's policy towards pakistan is based. the overall situation of the pakistani economy and its level of development are two other aspects of the same analysis. both are of course taken into account in the overall definition of our policy towards pakistan and will continue to be so in the future.
thank you for your answer, mr. chairman and mr. minister. i think the question was primarily to find out if we were going to provide any humanitarian services to the poor people of pakistan. if the minister can answer, please.
acting president of the council. as you know, mr president, humanitarian aid, cooperation and development aid are priority issues for the european union. where there are people suffering or in poverty, the union, the council and this parliament will of course do everything possible to help to alleviate these situations of poverty. the european union is a donor, or the largest donor, of international aid and that fact cannot be forgotten.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president, as the honourable member is aware, the application of the solidarity fund regulation is a matter for the commission and the effectiveness of the regulation must be assessed in the light of the criteria set out in that regulation. as far as the council was informed, in the case of disasters covered by the regulation, its application was effective. the european commission regularly produces reports detailing the operation of the solidarity fund.
acting president of the council. as i have said, madam president, the council's assessment is that the implementation of this regulation, that is the implementation of the solidarity fund, has been effective and, above all, it was certainly an excellent proposal that we could have, something which did not exist here for some time and not very long ago, a fund which helps member states to cope with certain types of natural disasters or disasters which, of course, did not exist and which obviously put the member states in a particularly difficult and needy situation. there is always the possibility of asking for more and of asking for more. we must also, of course, approach this matter with realism, but also with ambition. i am sure that the council will, at the appropriate time, and if that is also the commission's proposal, look into this possibility. but we have the legislative framework we have now, and we are going to work with it, and we are going to work realistically, welcoming the creation of this fund and the effective way in which it has played its part, which in fact proves the soundness of this initiative.
acting president of the council. i am answering the oral question, if i am correct, put by mr newton dunn. i would like to point out that the diplomatic and consular missions of the member states and the commission delegations in third countries cooperate to ensure that common positions and joint actions adopted by the council in the framework of the common foreign and security policy are complied with and implemented as provided for in the treaty on european union, which of course also includes the british consul general in jerusalem to whom the honourable member refers in his question.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr president-in-office, i am very pleased to answer your question, especially as the issues relating to the reform treaty are, for me personally, dealing with this issue of a new treaty for the union for many years, are particularly attractive and particularly important and therefore it is with great pleasure that i will try to answer your question and remind you that, in accordance with the mandate given on 22 june to the intergovernmental conference of 2007, the provisions relating to this subject to be included in the so-called 'reform treaty' provide for a decision establishing the composition of the european parliament to be adopted by the council on the initiative of and with the agreement of the european parliament. as the honourable member is no doubt aware, and in order to save time, the european council in june asked the european parliament to submit a draft of this initiative to it by october 2007. we are aware that a report on the future composition of the european parliament, drawn up by mr lamassoure and mr severin, will be presented at the october plenary session, that is to say on 10 october this year, 10 october next.
acting president of the council. mr president, i would remind you that the westernmost point in europe is in portugal. it's the cape of good hope. perhaps i am in some way disputing the honourable member's statement about the geographical situation of his country, but the westernmost point of europe is in my country. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. mr president, i am pleased to be here tonight to represent the commission in this very important discussion on consumer confidence in the internal market. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lehtinen, and the shadow rapporteurs of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for their very ambitious work in drafting this report. i should stress at the outset that the commission agrees with the report regarding the need to increase consumer confidence in the internal market; in particular, the consumer internal market for services demands our attention. so, one of the commission’s priorities is to bring the benefits of the internal market closer to our european consumers and i am grateful for the support of the parliament in this endeavour. the commission has already undertaken a number of initiatives in order to boost consumer confidence in the internal market. i would like to mention two: european consumer protection legislation and the services directive. now, the consumer acquis already sets out a number of obligations for cross-border service providers. for instance, it regulates the information obligations for traders who sell services long distance or on the consumers’ doorstep. it also provides consumers with protection against unfair terms in services contracts. and, with the ongoing review of this acquis, the commission will elaborate if there is further need to address the obligations of service providers and the rights of consumers in these areas. then, the services directive: you know it very well, you discussed it not long ago. it improves the position of consumers within the internal market for services. and it ensures that consumers will be better informed by businesses, better assisted by public authorities, and it establishes a number of clear and substantive obligations on service providers. the commission of course is very keen to ensure proper implementation of this directive in all member states and we believe that those two initiatives are very far-reaching because we can, from both of those initiatives, expect a real change in the consumer internal market for services once the implementation of the services directive is complete and the review of the consumer acquis delivers its results. having said that, i have also to underline that the commission takes a different view to mr lehtinen’s report on the need for a separate horizontal instrument to cover obligations of cross-border service providers at this stage for the simple reason that we believe that we should first accomplish our ongoing initiatives before coming, if necessary, to a separate horizontal instrument. that is why i would like to thank you for your commitment towards helping us implement these two instruments; in also helping european citizens to enjoy the full benefits of the internal market for services. and i know that my colleagues, commissioner kuneva and commissioner mccreevy, look forward to discussing with you, working with you, to establish this internal market together with parliament, which is the real representative of the european citizens. so, thank you for your collaboration, thanks for this openness and i am sure that my two colleagues – and, indeed, the whole commission – will, in a very deep way, continue to work together with parliament.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the development of the union's internal market is essential for strengthening the links between the countries and citizens of the community. increasing cross-border exchanges of services in a competitive environment requires an increase in mutual trust, which should be supported by pro-consumer policies. this policy aims to improve the legal framework for crossborder services while simplifying procedures, which will increase competition, improve accessibility and improve service quality while reducing costs and benefiting european citizens. the report contributes to the improvement of this policy by pointing out a number of problems that are hampering the dynamic growth of the market, such as: the lack of a uniform system for regulating the obligations of cross-border service providers and the need to supplement eu documents in this field; the lack of clarity in the application of the rules, which creates mental barriers to foreign providers; the lower protection of the rights of service users compared to service providers; the lack of regulation of public and private services by the same rules; the divergence of the rules on the liability of cross-border service providers; the lack of transparency needed to protect these services. to improve consumer confidence, consideration should be given to the introduction of quality certificates for service providers. the conclusions and arguments in the report are consistent with the observations of the legal affairs committee. i thank the rapporteur for his detailed report.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on his report which draws attention to the many problems faced by consumers in the internal market. the report rightly points to the lack of legal clarity, security and quality of service, and the general lack of confidence of european consumers in cross-border consumption. the figures confirm this: in 2006, only 6% of consumers made cross-border purchases via the internet. this has a negative impact on competition, the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises and the expansion of the illegal zone. fraudsters often exploit differences in the legal systems of the european union to commit fraud. of course, when you see these things, you have to act. and that's what we do. i would like to recall the months of work on the services directive and the revision of consumer law. as you know, the services directive must be implemented in all member states by december 2009. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the services directive is a major step forward in the rights of consumers, who must be better informed by service providers about the services they offer, and this will make for better and more informed choices and better protection by the relevant institutions. the services directive also contains a number of clear obligations imposed on the service provider, including those relating to dispute resolution. until the provisions of the services directive are implemented, i do not think there is a need to introduce further legal instruments. and i think it is premature to call on the commission to present a horizontal instrument. and the same thing is happening with the whole consumer law review. the commission has already proposed a green paper on consumer law and will present legislative proposals in the course of its work. sometimes, ladies and gentlemen, more legislation doesn't mean better. and that's something to remember.
member of the commission. mr president, i have been listening very carefully to the discussion on parliament’s report on the obligations of cross-border service providers. i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments. now allow me to stress a few key points. first, the commission supports the aim of the report on which parliament will vote tomorrow. we are indeed concerned with the lack of consumer confidence in the internal market for services. let me stress that, as commissioner for the information society, this lack of confidence in internet business is very important indeed and we will have to have a look at that. second, as i mentioned earlier, the commission has already undertaken a number of initiatives which aim to remedy the current situation. i have quoted the services directive and the review of the consumer acquis. the latter, by the way, is one of the key priorities of my colleague commissioner kuneva. i would like to say that we are very grateful for the support of parliament and we would like to encourage parliament to continue to contribute to the review process, and we would like, together with parliament, to be able to deliver results as soon as possible. what are we going to propose in a concrete way for the coming weeks and months? first a summary of the responses to the consultation will be published on the commission’s website at the beginning of october. then there will be an impact assessment carried out with a view to a possible commission proposal in the second half of 2008. the members having had a look at this problem carefully will certainly be interested in this. third, the commission agrees on the need to promote the safety aspects of services because it is very important to better ensure the health and the physical safety aspects of services provided within the internal market. with the member states, we will draw attention to possible shortcomings in national systems, or necessary enforcement of the assessment. we will promote consumer education and awareness-raising initiatives. we will facilitate access to existing information on accidents and injuries related to the safety of services offered to consumers, and one of the very important elements which has been stressed by several members relates to collective redress. the commission is carrying out studies and concerting stakeholders in order to assess the opportunity of an initiative in this area but one thing is certain, and i would like to underline it – this will not be a us-type class action. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and parliament for the importance it attaches to this issue. we are sure the parliamentary report will be instrumental for our future work in the interests of the consumers.
in writing. i would like to thank mr lesse lehtinen for the substantive report. one of the four fundamental freedoms of the internal market is the freedom to provide services. over the years, the services sector has become increasingly important to the eu's economic and social development and has undergone a major transformation. despite the provisions of the ec treaty and the ongoing process of transposition of the services directive into national law, the free movement of services is hampered in practice by administrative rules and differences in the legal systems of the member states. in view of the challenges and threats posed by globalisation, as well as the shortcomings in the services sector identified in the report, it is essential to take action to remove obstacles to the provision of cross-border services. lack of consumer confidence and reluctance of firms to move outside their own country limits access to the internal market. community action should immediately put in place mechanisms to make it easier for businesses, in particular smes, and consumers to benefit from the internal market. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the rules on the provision of cross-border services and to introduce a minimum degree of harmonisation of quality requirements in order to protect the interests of users. strengthening cooperation between member states, reducing administrative procedures and adequately controlling services provided across borders is conducive to the growth of cross-border activities. harmonisation of quality requirements will strengthen consumer and supplier confidence in cross-border services. by facilitating the cross-border provision of services, a well-functioning single market for services will be created and thus the basis for an economically coherent internal market.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. reading books is living a double life. umberto eco. what is it? mrs descamps' report is a good example of a modern approach to culture and education. i also referred to this issue in my report on the impact of regional policy on the union's innovation capacity. just as the invention of gutenberg was a breakthrough for mankind, so today we can speak of a cultural revolution taking place on the internet. so, it's about universal access to the european, and indeed the world's, treasury of the spiritual and material achievements of humanity. it includes works of art from the present and from centuries ago, in many cultures and in many languages. of course, copyright is important here. i express my appreciation for what has already been done in this area in many of our countries, including by the polish national library. i want to emphasize the role of broadband. i also think we should find a way to co-finance digitisation from eu funds. i end with the words of johann wolfgang goethe, who said: 'when i read a good book, i feel as if i have made a new friend.' how many good friends we can make through the european digital library.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of a european digital library, designed to create a place on the internet where every user can access the collected resources free of charge, is an ambitious project. the library will be equipped with a multilingual interface, which will allow direct access to the content you are looking for. every citizen will be able to access even the least known and sought-after works of world culture in their own language. it is also worth noting that the initiative addresses an important issue of access to the internet and the world's cultural heritage for people living in rural areas, on islands and with mobility problems. access to all categories of cultural resources, including copyrighted works, is undoubtedly another major problem. i hope that with time, and with investment in technology, we can defeat him. the report by mrs marie-hélène descamps is a balanced document which i believe should be supported.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i join in the words of appreciation addressed to the rapporteur for her competent report on behalf of the european parliament, which has given a clear signal of support to the idea of creating a european digital library. i am pleased to stress that my country has also taken the initiative in this regard: poland was also among the six, madam rapporteur. the report provides a convincing justification for the phased implementation of this project. the gradual inclusion of further categories of cultural heritage, including copyrighted documents, provided, of course, that the legal requirements for intellectual property are met. of particular note is the intention of the project to include the possibility of participation, in addition to libraries, of other institutions for the dissemination of culture. museums and archives, which have naturally been linked to libraries for centuries, will also have a deserved place in this system. i am hopeful, especially after the announcement that the european digital library will be involved in the coordination of not only scientific research on digitisation but also the very important issue of the protection of digital assets. i believe that this will help to develop common, uniform requirements for the proper storage of digital material collected in libraries, museums and archives, as well as for digital material - archival material, i stress - stored outside archives, in libraries and museums. it is well known that for centuries these institutions have had problems with adequate protection of the archives that come to them through various routes. we finally have a chance to change that.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in poland, there is a popular saying: "what you cannot learn, john cannot do". there is wisdom in this saying, which reminds us that the most effective way to teach children is to teach them. the rapporteur is therefore right to propose that more money be allocated to pre-school education, since it is in the pre-school period that the integration of the community begins, which serves the development of the human being and prepares him to fulfil his mission. this integration should be further strengthened in the future. the rapporteur rightly sees the problem of the division into categories and the need to differentiate only at secondary school level and to extend the period of schooling. it is also good that the draft resolution clearly emphasises the need to link vocational education and training policy with employment, economic and social integration policies, and to improve the competitiveness of higher education and equal access for all. the best argument for adopting such a training system is that 75 million people in the european union, or 32% of the workforce, have insufficient education, which has a serious impact on work efficiency, economic performance and social situation. we need to change that.
recalling the 2006 recommendation of the european parliament and of the council stressing the need to develop lifelong learning, with particular attention to the unemployed, and the importance of adapting to economic changes affecting the functioning of the labour market, i would like to draw attention to the importance of education for greater labour market mobility, which means the chance to reduce structural unemployment. i would like to emphasise the importance of the european qualifications framework for increasing the mobility of workers. equal access to education, which is such an important factor in equalising the life chances of children and young people, is linked to the financing of education in the countries of the union. differences in the funding of education, teacher qualifications and salaries have a significant impact on the achievement of this lisbon objective. the report on progress towards the lisbon objectives on education and training, adopted by the commission in 2005, clearly indicates that progress in this area is not sufficient to reach the target level in 2010. this is why it is so important to focus on improving the quality of education, preventing social exclusion and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. i congratulate mr tomáš zatloukál on his excellent report!
madam president! i'd like to draw your attention to a few things. firstly, i agree with the rapporteur that it is best to invest in pre-school education, because that is where the best results are achieved. on the other hand, it is important to support the modernisation of universities, to focus on equal access to higher education and to increase its competitiveness. second, there are many benefits to equal access to education. we are seeing social development, economic growth, increased innovation, human capital, new technologies, and decreased unemployment. third, although the return on investment in education takes a long time and requires long-term planning, it is important to remember that investment is key. fourthly, i agree that it is important to link vocational education and training policy with employment policy, economic policy and social integration. fifthly, there is a need to invest in our young people, because the young generation is the future of the european union. it is extremely important to prevent early school leaving. sixthly, madam president, we are faced with the demographic problem of an ageing european population. therefore, lifelong learning should be promoted. seventh, education, education and again education.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the news that 10% of children are suffering from dysfunctional disorders is just terrifying. one in ten children has speech disorders, movement disorders, or is unable to express his thoughts or does so in a way that is not understandable. what will adult society be like in a few years? a group of people who have trouble performing normal activities or who cannot participate in normal social life? can we imagine that by considering them disabled, we create a society of disabled people? this is unacceptable. if these diseases are treatable, we need to do everything we can to treat these children, not try to prevent discrimination or social exclusion, because you can't exclude people like you. i think that's not going to happen, and there are ways to fix it. and i would like to end by saying that i am with you and i would like to thank those who have brought this problem to my attention.
madam president! i congratulate the authors of this much-needed inquiry into these specific dysfunctions; the 10% of children affected are then the 10% of the population who are less well-functioning in society, but also the adults who suffer more. but it's the fate of children who are separated from their environment that's not really clear why that's the most important thing here. in a child's development, one difficulty builds another, one complex builds another. the disorder should be given a separate status as a disease or disability and the difficulties should be explained first to the child and then to the child's environment, parents, peers and schoolmates. these children deserve a special approach, a personalized teaching style. the detection and proper definition of these disorders is particularly important where treatment options are limited.
the next item is the report drawn up by mrs katalijnna maria buitenweg on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the application of directive 2000/43/ec of 29 june 2000 implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin (2007/2094 (ini)) (a6-0278/2007).
mr. chairman, please! in reviewing the state of implementation of european union directives, including the directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin, i have found, as has the rapporteur, that many member states have adopted the broad scope of the directive, going beyond its subject matter. member states, with a few exceptions, have fully ensured equal treatment for their citizens. there are still some gaps and omissions that need to be worked out. in many cases, provisions are contained in different legal acts, but this should not constitute an obstacle to enforcement at national level. i think that the legislative preparation in the european union is at a good level. it is worse with the consciousness of people who may possibly discriminate against third parties. but at this point, we have to answer the question: how do we develop people's awareness and sensitivity in our global world? in a world where people are constantly moving from place to place for a variety of reasons... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! the european union has good legislation, anti-discrimination standards in place and directives in the pipeline. i congratulate you on the report which your colleague presented today. and the states will implement what we decide here. states have anti-discrimination clauses in their constitutions, they have whole sections of law that are supposed to protect citizens from discrimination. so why is it so bad? so why do we still have so many examples of discrimination that we can't really deal with? i think the problem lies on two levels. first, the information, and second, the enforcement of the obligation. i'll focus on the information. well, information is not just the actions of states. states, it turns out, have very little information about what discrimination is to the average citizen. i think that this role should be taken on more by ngos, which are very good at dealing with different social classes, different groups of citizens, and giving them information about what immigration is. ask immigrant women, older women, single mothers if they feel discriminated against. they will say, "no, this is our fate. this is an evil fate". we need to help them find their way, show them the procedures and the authorities. i would also like the european parliament to be involved in the preparation of a code of good practice which would be shared between the organisations. and the last sentence. i hope that the european commission's action in the form of a yellow truck touring europe with an anti-discrimination exhibition and the year of equal opportunities is not all we can afford. let's do more for the discriminated!
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of persons irrespective of their racial or ethnic origin, as well as their skin colour, beliefs and faith, is usually a continuous and never-ending process. every step towards the ultimate goal is a great success. we cannot expect to change all people overnight, to get rid of the natural tendency to seek to improve their lives and to fight those who might potentially interfere with that pursuit. but we have to do everything we can to remove the legal, sociological, economic barriers, and also to educate, create conditions for coexistence and change our negative attitudes towards other people, regardless of the differences between us. finally, i would like to say that i absolutely disagree with mr vanhecke on the views.
mr. chairman, please! of course, no one in the world in the 21st century can not support the fight against discrimination. i too will support this report, although i believe that prejudice is not based on race or ethnicity, but on culture, civilization and religion. i would also like to point out that it would be easier for us in europe to observe the principle of non-discrimination if we had a policy of voluntary and controlled immigration, because nobody would, in principle, be hostile or unfriendly to the partner they have chosen. this report is about immigrant rights in a nutshell. let's talk about their duties too! we will be better able to avoid discrimination against foreigners and people from other cultures if they respect the culture and customs of the natives, if they show a willingness to integrate and if they do not build a state within a state in our europe with christian roots, as it were.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by saying that i will of course convey to my colleague mr špidla the largely positive appraisals i have heard about his action. i think he deserves it, and i'll pass that on to him. i will also, of course, inform him of the remarks and urgent requests or expectations of the european parliament with regard to the work that remains to be done. first, i'd like to make a little point. i do not, of course, share, nor does the commission, the expression of certain exclusionary sentiments that i have heard - fortunately, it is marginal. i cannot, however, accept that there is a danger of state formation in the christian state or in christian europe. i have full respect, of course, for people, for citizens who think in this way, but i must still - it seems to me that it is a duty - simply remind you that europe is not religiously or philosophically or politically univocal. i think it's good, at times, to recall that kind of evidence. mrs buitenweg and mrs in 't veld have rightly pointed out a fundamental problem, namely the omission of directives in national legislation. the commission is fully aware that pressure must continue to be exerted on member states which do not comply with european legislation. the commission shall share its concerns with the institutions which are concerned with the important matters in member states; you know that we support the institutions and organizations naturally in a very good and warm way. as regards the new initiative, there is currently an impact assessment on it: the study on the impact of discrimination has already begun. of course, we must know the extent of the problem. consultations are currently under way with the general public, ngos, the social partners, companies and also the european parliament. normally there will be an impact assessment report in january 2008. the inter-service consultation will then take place in march, april 2008. this initiative should be included in the commission's 2008 work programme, which is currently being examined and will be published at the end of october or the beginning of november. secondly, if it is adopted, as we have proposed, a proposal will be submitted to the commission in june 2008, so things will go on as normal. i can only emphasize that we are in full agreement with the speakers, or at least with most of them, in our thinking and analysis, and i would like to congratulate mrs buitenweg on behalf of the commission for the excellent work she has done. i believe that the example given here shows how decisive the role of the european parliament can be in advancing a europe of rights, respectful of minorities, respectful of all.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today, 27 september 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mrs piija-noora kauppi, drawn up on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men in the european union 2007 (2007/2065 (ini)) (a6-0290/2007).
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report on equality between women and men is further evidence that gender equality policy plays an important role. both women and men have the right to participate actively in all areas of public life with legal confirmation. but dignity is not experienced through written legal acts alone, but through adequate safeguards: material, spiritual, emotional, especially in a healthy family. on the other hand, modern propaganda that belittles the role of marriage, family, and motherhood instills guilt feelings in girls and women who want to stay at home and care for their children. instead of help, legal protection, and appreciation of the role of wife and mother in raising children, women are overburdened and objectified, which is further encouraged by the anti-conceptual, abortionist mentality, extreme individualism, conflict between parents and children, and the extension of the retirement age leading to psychophysical destruction. it must be constantly reminded that equal dignity, equal rights for women and men do not mean identification with men. all forms of masculinization of women, all forms of competition with men in all fields, are not only destroying women, but society as a whole, distorting the richness and the intrinsic value of femininity and masculinity. today, there is a need for particular sensitivity to avoid actions that are detached from real needs and aspirations and to overcome excessive individualism and moral relativism. especially in the absence of basic infrastructure and economic development opportunities, it is necessary to combat discrimination in many areas of life, and therefore not only the law but also social organisations should facilitate the fulfillment of obligations. but instead of indoctrination and unification, which creates confusion and conflict. it therefore calls for respect for the dignity of every human being, not just equal pay, but respect for traditions, culture, religion, values important to national and cultural identity, which will enrich the european identity of today.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate you, mrs. kauppi! we all agree that we need to increase the birth rate in europe to improve the demographic situation. if this works, and it must, it will mean that a significant number of women, especially young women, will be at least temporarily excluded from the labour market. and yet, there are already shortages of workers in many parts of europe. for example, there is a shortage of about 700 000 scientists in european science. however, only one doctor in four is a woman and one professor in ten in europe is a woman. and yet, more women than men graduate from university in europe. so they're well prepared for the science, but they're cutting it short and not going on. in every sector, the incentives and facilitation of women's entry into employment must be different. for example, science uses a few simple techniques. one, the ability to do science at home. secondly, the organization of very comfortable and cheap kindergartens within the walls of institutes or universities. third, the child is cared for by a woman and a man in turn. fourth, getting degrees while taking time off to raise kids. and fifth, ensuring that women and men earn the same in parallel jobs. europe cannot afford to have educated and talented women lose out in the scientific competition just because they have children. luckily, someone already did. unesco and l'oréal have been working together for several years to promote women in science. we'll see the effects, the good effects, of this action at the exhibition starting next monday, october 1st, at the european parliament in brussels, on the ground floor, opposite the kbc bank. you are all cordially invited!
mr. chairman, please! it is time for member states to finally take decisive steps to eliminate outdated patterns of decision-making and behaviour, especially in the public sector, in order to better integrate gender into all policies. there are still differences in treatment between men and women, which result in lower wages, discrimination against pregnant women and young mothers, for example. while the employment rate for women is promising, with 6 out of 8 million new jobs in the european union created since 2000 being held by women, the gender pay gap in the european union still stands at an average of 15%, and in some countries it is as high as 30%. it is unacceptable that a woman, because of her maternity, which is the responsibility of both parents, is treated less favourably than a man in the labour market, with repercussions on her career, earnings and, later, retirement benefits. gender stereotypes must be tackled, and i therefore support the proposal to create a budget line under cohesion policy to finance measures to promote equality and to fund research into the impact of policies on women's lives. i would like to congratulate mrs kauppi on her excellent report.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i vote for the report by mr tomáš zatloukal on the effectiveness and equal access of european education and training systems. vocational education and training policy has a significant positive impact on economic and social performance, sustainable development and social cohesion. low efficiency and unequal access, on the other hand, lead to huge costs tax losses, higher demand for healthcare and public support, and costs associated with higher rates of socially disordered behaviour. the conclusions of the lisbon council in march 2000 underlined that education is the key to the development of the european economy and society. this report provides some good ideas on how to restore teaching efficiency in primary and upper secondary schools and universities. the report also calls on member state governments to plan education priorities at local and national level in the long term.
mr. chairman, please! although 129 countries have abolished the death penalty, the scale of its use worldwide remains very worrying. in 2006 alone, 1,591 executions took place; at least 3,861 people are currently on death row. the european union is a world leader in the fight against the death penalty. in its relations with third countries in international fora such as the un, the abolition of the death penalty is a key human rights objective of the union. the union's political commitment also goes hand in hand with its substantial financial support for projects under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. moreover, the abolition of the death penalty is also accepted as a natural condition of membership of the european union and the council of europe. it is a pity that due to the opposition of the polish government, europe will not celebrate the day against the death penalty on october 10. i regret that this position of the polish government, which is part of the pre-election game, is damaging poland's image in the international arena and the european union as a whole in promoting its core values. the council decision on a memorandum on the death penalty and the idea of a joint resolution to be proposed by the union at the next session of the un general assembly deserve our full support.
mr. chairman, please! i wanted to say that i voted against the death penalty resolution. i would like to emphasize that in my country, poland, the death penalty has not been used for 19 years. but it's one thing to oppose the death penalty, and it's another to support fundamentalist abolitionists who base their opposition to any punishment of people for their crimes on a deep conviction that people are not accountable for their actions. i believe that man is responsible for his actions and should be held accountable and should be punished accordingly because he has free will. the fundamentalist abolitionists' belief that man does not have and does not possess free will and therefore cannot be punished is, in fact, contempt for man and the false legacy of the french revolution.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs buitenweg on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for all regardless of racial or ethnic origin. the honourable member has prepared a very good and reliable report. despite progress in the transposition of the anti-discrimination directive, the number of victims of unequal treatment of persons on the grounds of racial or ethnic origin is still not decreasing. the facilitation of the exercise of your rights through legal means and the assistance in the taking of evidence are very important elements which you have mentioned in your report. i also think that it is very important to spread information about the rights of the citizens of the union, because rights are of no use if citizens are not aware of their existence or do not know how to use them. to prevent such a situation in the workplace, poland has imposed an obligation on employers to inform employees about the provisions of the law on discrimination. we must ensure that, in the context of the european year of equal opportunities, both the eu institutions and the member states make every effort to make every person in europe aware of their rights.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i am voting in favour of the report by mrs piia-noora kauppi on equality between women and men in the european union. in her report, kauppi calls on member states to tackle inequalities in the employment of women and men. the inequality is most visible in the occupational sphere. the average gender pay gap in the eu is 15%, reaching 30% in some countries. as many as 32% of women work part-time, compared with 7% of men. the situation of immigrant and ethnic minority women, elderly women and single mothers, who are marginalized and discriminated against in many ways, deserves to be supported. gender stereotypes in work, education and the media must be tackled. it is also recommended that awareness campaigns be developed to enable women to cope with situations that undermine their dignity.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are now in the final stages of the work on the reform of the treaty. if the lisbon summit is to be a success, we need political imagination. those who consider treaty reform a priority should ask themselves today: is it worth stiffening up against poland and the uk, or is it worth questioning the outcome of years of negotiations? the bill of rights, if its supporters are to be believed, is only meant to reinforce the existing laws. but perhaps those who point to the unpredictable effects of the ets's application of its provisions are right. i have such concerns and therefore fully understand the reservations expressed by the united kingdom and poland. the joannina mechanism and the permanent seat of the polish ombudsman in the ets are an important element of the compensation for the losses poland has chosen to incur as a result of its withdrawal from the nice system. to challenge these findings today raises questions about the sincerity of our intentions. poland, like any other country, has a right to expect better instruments to monitor the legislative process in the union. the lack of appropriate legitimacy will mean the failure of the european project in the future. the lack of control over the legislative process is not the invention of eurosceptics or war-mongers, as the usually slightly irritated martin schulz wants to see it. this is a matter of concern to honest europeans. it was the former president of the constitutional court in karlsruhe and former german president roman herzog who recently asked whether germany is still a parliamentary democracy, given how much legislation is created outside the bundestag.
mr. chairman, please! what are we discussing today? a constitution for europe. we're debating a document with a different name, different wording, but the same substance as the already rejected constitution. it's a supposedly minor document, just to keep it from being put to a referendum. here the political elites of the union, including the members of this house, the european commission and the governments of the member states, are trying to deceive their own electorates, their own people. we are to support the reform treaty, which is in fact the euro-constitution, renamed the euro-constitution, which the french and dutch voters have already rejected in referendums, and a number of other countries have not ratified it within the required time. let us recall the words of angela merkel, i quote, to use a different terminology without changing the legal substance, for example, in the case of the name of the treaty, the terms for the legal acts of the union, or for the minister of foreign affairs of the union end of quote. it has just been done, and we are called upon to accept this deception. let's not let ourselves and our constituents be fooled.
mr. chairman, please! the heads of state or government will once again work to improve the functioning of the european union by equipping it with a new treaty. i am glad that you are concerned about the people of europe and their future. but the arrangements for the informal summit cannot replace the democratic process of national referendums on the adoption of the treaty. this would be a deception to the societies of the member states, which have the right to decide for themselves on such an important issue. the old constitutional treaty was the subject of an operation consisting in essence of minor modifications to the text. this allows the whole to be presented, depending on the political needs of the moment, either as a completely new document or as an old treaty that has remained essentially unchanged. i would therefore like to ask how the council and the commission define the document in question. is it a new treaty or a watered-down version of the old one and will the process of ratifying it start from scratch in all member states?
mr. chairman, please! a few thoughts on lisbon. recent events in the constitutional crisis have made europe's citizens aware of the need for reform and change. the essence of a democratic decision-making system is to reach consensus by majority or unanimous support of an idea, if a frivolous veto of one partner does not appear on important issues. we are discussing the question of numerical representation in decision-making in the context of a united europe, and in so doing we are touching the very foundations of the functioning of a common body. this is why the voice of a minority is important, because, for example, because of its geographical location or its historical experience and political situation, it can often express a view of reality that is right for europe. the living, dynamic organism of europe cannot be confined to a rigid, universal legislative framework established by the parliament or commission currently in office for ever. a person or a national group has an unlimited repertoire of behaviors, and life and the development of circumstances force the rules to be adapted, although not the values that should be consistent with reality. we cannot ignore the immediate eastern dimension in economic, political and energy terms. it's not just the west that matters, or brazil, i think we need more flexibility in this regard for the current presidency. another reflection: the broader economic perspective we are discussing and which will be discussed, should become part of the so-called lisbon strategy if we are to catch up with the united states. finally, mr president, greater involvement of the national parliaments elected by the citizens will bring eu affairs closer to the people. the real point is that the shape, content and future of europe should be decided by citizens rather than by the representatives of the government in power at the time.
mr president, prime minister, madam president, i have to go. as seven years ago, the portuguese presidency faces great tasks and great challenges. i am convinced that the european treaty will be adopted in a good atmosphere and with agreement, providing the basis for effective and efficient governance of the union. this is the most important case today. only then can the european union gradually become a political power and have a positive impact on the world. but economic strength in the union is always essential. today, even more than seven years ago. we are facing the challenges of globalisation and we want to become, and i quote, 'the most competitive and knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable development, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion'. but today we know how difficult it is. so a social europe that increases employment and also fights climate change, which was not the case seven years ago, must be a europe of the fully free market. an open market, a market free from protectionism and monopolies. we owe it to our citizens if we are to meet the lisbon strategy's objectives of competitiveness, innovation and progress. it is also worth remembering that the management of the guidelines at the level of the free market has been much more successful than the management at the level of the member states. and finally, the third thing is that our success depends a lot on our relationships with our neighbors. i congratulate the portuguese presidency on the far-reaching convergence of the southern dimension of the union, but we should never forget the eastern dimension as well. all the more so as the results of fair, free elections in ukraine offer a chance for a democratic, free market and pro-european stabilisation of the eastern border of the european union. it is only two and a half weeks since the elections, and it is worth saying this loudly in the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i hope that the agreement reached in berlin on the main issues currently covered by the reform treaty will be successfully concluded at the forthcoming lisbon summit. i also hope that the polish government - given that 80% of the polish public supports our membership of the european union - will contribute to the final adoption of the draft treaty and thus prove that it understands the slogan 'a strong poland in a strong europe'. one of the major achievements of this agreement will be to make the charter of fundamental rights legally binding, and i am pleased that a joint announcement ceremony has been planned for the charter during the european parliament's plenary session by the president of the european parliament, the president of the commission and the presidency. this is a testament to the importance of the convention, which deals with issues such as dignity, freedom, equality, solidarity, civil rights and justice. that is why i do not understand and do not support the position of the polish government, which wants to exclude the polish citizens from the provisions of chapter iv of the charter, entitled 'solidarity'. this chapter contains provisions on labour and trade union rights that are particularly close to the polish and european left. any sensible government should be concerned about ensuring that its citizens have greater and more effective protection of workers' rights, especially in a country like poland, whose freedom was brought about by the workers' uprising of polish solidarity. i therefore call on the polish government to change its position on this matter.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to join in congratulating the portuguese presidency on having managed to bring about a compromise on the eu treaty. it's a very difficult process and it took a lot of effort to actually get him to agree. this treaty is not the treaty of our dreams, it is not the treaty that reflects the visions and dreams of today's europeans. but it is what may happen at this moment in the road between the dream and the reality of the european union. i am convinced, i hope, that this treaty will be accepted by all the european countries. at the same time, i must express my strong opposition to the warsaw declaration by the government of the european union not to accept the charter of fundamental rights. non possumus, i say this non possumus in the european parliament as a solidarity activist from the time of martial law. poland has shown the way to freedom and democracy for all of europe and today the polish government has the audacity to declare that it will not apply in our country, in my homeland, the charter of fundamental rights. i protest against this, on behalf of that part of polish society, poles and poles, who will never accept that the eu charter of fundamental rights does not apply in poland.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, the usual thing to do when we have such a report before our hands is to argue what one country should get and what another should lose, which only proves that european solidarity is a myth and national egoism always triumphs. in light of the recent german aggression by mr schulz against the president of the european commission, let us look at a good method of winning at the zero-sum game. in paragraph 8, we witness a lamentation that germany will lose seats. we hear more and more of this lamentation: that more eu documents should be translated into german, that germany is the biggest net contributor to the eu budget, that it should have its own seat on the un security council and so on. we could make a whole list of such complaints. at the same time, mr severin is trying to convince us, through his undefined degressive proportionality – which, coincidentally does not affect his own romania – that when poland loses three seats, it actually gains one. i only wish that his concept would work this well in the casino. but let us get things clear. only a socialist from yorkshire could accept that two plus two is five.
madam president! we have two more debates here in the european parliament today that will show us what the order and division of power in the european union will be like. for me, as a representative of poland and the league of polish families, this is a very sad debate. i am very critical of this new attempt to introduce a constitutional treaty under the new name of a reform treaty, and of the new distribution of seats in the european parliament which discriminates against my country. the report, which was adopted by the european parliament's constitutional committee and is based on very dubious and exaggerated arguments, clearly attacks some countries and favours others, and not for the first time. i can't give you my consent for that. i also call on the president of poland to reject the treaty in lisbon next week.
madam president! i'm used to the unholy hypocrisy that pervades this chamber. but i want to ask you one thing today. if this is what you want, then most of the speeches indicate that you want the rules for electing and appointing members of the european parliament to be changed so that citizenship of a particular country is not a decisive factor, that is to say, that you claim that we are already dealing with an integrated european nation with common standards and common interests. so there is a european nation. i ask you hypocrites, how is it that poor poland has only one third of agricultural subsidies, that the richest germans, against the common energy policy, want to make deals with russia over the heads of other countries and run a pipeline across the sea, threatening the protection of the environment? can these two things be reconciled? what if it's as i say, that it's too early to create a myth of a european state? it must be pursued, but very slowly and systematically, and accelerated actions of this kind can only lead to the opposite of the intended results.
madam president! i find it difficult to accept the report which says that my country, and i would say the polish people, because it is they who elect their representatives, are losing the right to elect three additional members. that's how much less poland will be represented in the european parliament under the proposal presented today. why do i think that is unfair and why do i think that the criteria adopted in this report have not taken into account the obvious facts that my colleague from lithuania has already spoken about today? it's about workers, about workers, about poles who are temporarily abroad. three million poles abroad. let's say they're eligible to vote in the uk or ireland, but in the meantime they're back. and i say, who will represent them? they are denied the right to representation, even if they had the right to vote. this report, the second point, deepens the institutional imbalance which has hitherto been shaky but which existed between the position of the member states in the council and in parliament. poland loses in the council when it switches to a double majority voting system, and it loses in the parliament too. and finally, there is the imbalance in the employment of civil servants in the eu institutions, and in parliament in particular, which we have been discussing here today. this imbalance, which affects all the new member states, had a chance to be corrected here in parliament. i'd like to correct that report.
madam president! we are debating a very important report today, which will determine the distribution of seats in the next parliament. the rapporteur's proposal is very interesting and has certainly required a lot of work, both analytical and conceptual. i would like to thank them very much for this. but i think it has two serious weaknesses. first, my colleagues propose a solution which is temporary, temporary and only for the next term. i remember that when we started working on this report in the committee on constitutional affairs, we agreed that we would look for systemic solutions to allow the parliament to be automatically changed in the event of new countries joining the union. the alternative proposal put forward by some 80 members, including myself, fulfils this condition. using the d'hondt method to calculate the number of votes from each country is an objective instrument that eliminates political bidding. the european parliament could be the first institution to transcend political and national disputes by adopting this amendment. i accept a neutral, mathematical way of measuring the strength of individual countries. this would be a step in the right direction and a model for other multinational european institutions to follow. the second weakness of the concept presented is the lack of consistency in the approach to the rights of european citizens. among them is the right to be represented in this forum. the criterion of calculating the size of parliamentary representation according to the number of inhabitants weakens this right in my opinion. how are polish citizens living and working in ireland or the uk supposed to feel? there are, according to various estimates, between two and three million of them. according to the electoral law in force in poland, they can vote for candidates running in poland. but if we adopt the population criterion as proposed in the report, the number of members elected in my country will decrease and in the islands will increase as a result of their departure. so who will represent them in this forum? irish or british or polish mps, which will be fewer? the report does not answer these questions. in this context, i think it is necessary to make changes to the text of the report and, together with many colleagues, we will vote in favour of certain amendments.
the member has been awarded additional time as rapporteur. i want to reassure mr. severina that this has nothing to do with his report or his character. my experience is that mps are built to be better speakers than listeners. and that also happened during this debate. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 october 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statement by the council and the commission on the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was part of a delegation of five meps who spent a few important days in the palestinian authority. i want to emphasize that our mission was humanitarian, not political. i am saying this because i do not want our debate to turn into a very political debate, with the european parliament acting as a prosecutor against someone. i'd like us to look beyond the political divisions and think about how we can help civilian palestine. but let's be clear: it seems that the improvement of living standards in gaza, the normal operation of hospitals and schools, full access to drinking water, food and electricity, the possibility of normal work in agriculture will rather reduce the tension in the palestinian-israeli relations and ensure the weakening of the potential hostility towards jewish settlers, the citizens of israel and the state of israel as such. a few months ago i spoke here about the controversial content being taught in some palestinian schools, in palestinian textbooks, but now we've gone from one extreme to the other extreme. we can no longer criticize some aspects of the palestinian education system, because the education system has practically come to a standstill. but there is another side to this medal, the inside of palestine. there's a political stalemate between hamas and fatah and the camp of president abu mazen. this impasse is hampering the functioning of palestinian institutions and is actually hurting the palestinians living there, and it's certainly not israel's fault. we talk a lot about lasting peace between the state of israel and the palestinians, but that's like talking about a house starting from the roof. we must always speak from the ground, and that ground is the improvement of the functioning of palestinian power structures, public institutions and humanitarian aid to the palestinian people.
mr. chairman, please! one would expect that conflict would dissipate over time. but nothing more delusional than that. new generations are growing up, and the conflict is continuing and even intensifying. it would seem that the two closely related peoples, hebrew and arab, can coexist, but not in a hierarchical order. all the dependence on each other, the unequal status, and above all the lack of a sovereign state structure among the arabs will be a constant source of negative emotions, beliefs and revenge. if the state of israel cannot afford to divide up its territory, then i can hardly foresee peace in that area, unfortunately. just as the jews have a right to their country, a state, so do the arabs, the palestinians have a right to their country. historically, before world war ii, there was palestine, and as you can see, it's hard to erase it from the arab memory. every day the situation of the people in gaza is getting so bad that outbreaks of accumulated aggression are inevitable, and we can only watch it with embarrassment and sadness. the best we can do is, beyond appeasing the urges to destroy each other, beyond trying to mediate, we can afford humanitarian aid for people to live in as decent a sanitary environment as possible, to have food and a place to learn. but i must stress that this is only a substitute for a solution which, let us confess with shame, we are not capable of bringing about. the experiences of central and eastern europe in the 19th century, the hell of europe and africa in the 20th century, show without a doubt how strong a nation's desire for independence is. there, too, we have the same desire.
president of the council mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for all your comments and speeches, which i have listened to attentively. we believe that continued and sustained support for the economic development of the palestinian territories is one of the foundations for peace. there is a close relationship between security, political stability and the economy. in this way peace and security will not be achieved without building a solid and lasting economic foundation alongside a peace process that is a credible peace process. all these initiatives reflect our commitment to assisting and contributing to improving the living conditions of the palestinian population in the west bank, but also in gaza. these are efforts which we want to continue and we are confident that the donors' conference, which is scheduled for december in paris, will be the opportunity for the international community to express in some way, in some concrete way, its support for the palestinian authority and the palestinian people in general. it is essential that the international community does not abandon the people of gaza, whose very precarious humanitarian situation should not remain a political factor of instability, tension and dispute. i would like to say that the european union has a political strategy for the middle east peace process based on pillars and principles that are solid and that is why the european union is a desirable partner in the political process. we also have a consistent policy of helping those most in need in the palestinian territories. the figures i have presented and which the commissioner has also mentioned, i think are proof of this, without doubt. let others follow the example of the european union in this respect.
member of the commission. mr president, we all know that the situation in gaza is dramatic. however, we also know that, even if we are donating a lot of humanitarian aid, in the end we also have to find a political solution. i said before, and the president-in-office has mentioned now, that this international meeting is a very important occasion. we have all clearly stated that it cannot be just a photo opportunity. it has to be a substantive meeting, at which we hope the negotiations and personal talks between prime minister olmert and president abbas indeed materialise into an important initial document, not least on the very difficult issues, knowing that from then onwards working groups will have to take ideas further. we all know that there are many possible alternative solutions on the table. at the same time, until now, there has for a very long time been no possibility of getting the two parties together at such an international gathering with the support of the european union, with the support of the us, russia and the united nations, and also with the backing of the arab league. it is very important that this time the americans too have said that they are also ready to invite the so-called ‘follow-up group’ of the arab league, including syria and saudi arabia. that shows there is a certain opening-up. having said that, we also know very clearly, and this was apparent from the second meeting we had, the ad hoc liaison committee meeting, that we cannot only have political negotiations. we also have to make a change on the ground. that is, indeed, essential. it is about promoting economic development, and this is part of tony blair’s mandate, in which we also want to support him as much as we can because this is a possibility and an opportunity that we have to seize. we of course know, as he does too – i have had lengthy discussions with him – that the pre-conditions for economic recovery, as the world bank has also clearly mentioned, are an improvement in movement and access, promotion of the private sector in gaza, which must remain part of the economy there, and of course also promoting things like good governance. what we want to do is create a viable palestinian state for when things are, so to speak, ripe in the political sphere. i agree that we cannot have a ‘quick fix’ but, at the same time, what we do need now is a negotiation process that will finally start, and quick-start projects. this is an area that we are already preparing, so that things are ready after the international meeting and maybe after or at the moment of the pledging conference. we are considering projects – which, by the way, have been selected and supported by us and also by tony blair – such as projects for refurbishing schools, through which people see something is being done on the ground. there are also many other projects that we are studying at the moment, in trying to find the right answers, and for which, of course, we also need israel’s support. it is also clear that israel’s security concerns have to be taken into account. but, at the end of the day, we have to find a political solution, and it is president abbas who is the elected president of all palestinians. therefore, we now have to give him credit and work with him and support him. i want to thank you also for having very generously given the commission the possibility, for 2008, of straight away having eur 10 000 more in the budget for the palestinians. we will definitely need this and it will be particularly important for our pledging conference. let me also say that we are not only supporting christians – this was mentioned by mr belder – but are also supporting the most vulnerable sectors of the palestinian population, of which some, but not all, are christian. our criterion is need, not religion, as i mentioned before. let me say finally that we are very much aware of what many of you have said. we have analysed the situation. the only course is to try to come up with political solutions, while at the same time trying to mitigate the suffering as much as we can.
i have received the draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 103 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place tomorrow, 11 october 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission communication on a maritime policy for the european union.
madam president! despite the numerous remarks made in this chamber against mr schulz, he has not ceased to attack and insult members of the european union in a manner unworthy of this house. as a person holding a significant position in the community institutions, he interferes in the internal affairs of a member state and constantly insults its representatives. most people in this house would not dream of interfering in the democratic choices of the people of the union. i wonder how the honourable member would feel if one of the members of parliament were to call on the german people to change the chancellor, because in germany fascist organisations are legally operating and are undermining the borders between european countries. i think this gentleman regrets that he was born so late, not in this historical period.
mr. chairman, please! i have already called several times during this term of office for the european parliament to stop discriminating against poles, especially catholics. again, we see the demand by some circles to suspend funding for the school of social culture and media as a clear expression of discrimination and guided by criteria other than merits. the accusations against the school, which have been repeated by some media, are just slander, formulated by those who once enslaved poland and poles. now, in an age of democracy, they can't accept the idea of losing all power. a school that seeks funding provides education and training in a universal value system, especially for students from poor families. the tightening of criteria and the refusal to award funds as a result of the media frenzy, especially in the year of equal opportunities for all, would in our opinion not only be a manifestation of discrimination on grounds of religion and belief, but even a symptom of the use of totalitarian methods, which is contrary to the declared values, norms and requirements of european law.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to a very important problem in the european commission, which concerns transport links, which is still not being addressed here in the european parliament. this is the shortest transport route from scandinavia, northern europe, southwards to turkey, greece, bulgaria through the central european transport corridor. the corridor would start in ystad, sweden, and would run through szczecin, poland; wroclaw, czech republic; prague, slovakia; bratislava, vienna; constance, thessaloniki and trieste. this route is still not being noticed, and i believe that its inclusion in the european road and rail routes would bring the transport routes along this line closer and shorter, and would also give development to the entire central european corridor and all the cities and regions that lie around this line.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i fully support both the report by mr jorgos chatsimarkakis and the draft regulation itself. this is an important step in the right direction, we are bringing more transparency to the reporting of the expenditure of eu funds. the provision that allows, or rather obliges, the publication of information on who has benefited from these cap aids is particularly valuable. this is the kind of information that the public has been demanding for a long time, the kind of information that the press has been demanding, and it's very good that this is the kind of information that's being introduced. anyone who receives public aid should not be ashamed to be informed that he has received it, especially farmers, who have no reason to be ashamed, because it is clearly their right and it is for the good of the whole community. the regulation is aimed at strengthening control of eu spending and very well. i would like to say a few words about a problem which arose during the visit of the committee on budgetary control to poland, which took place at the beginning of october, and which concerns the disclosure of irregularities by the national control authorities. this is a solution which would avoid the consequences of cutting expenditure in a situation where irregularities are detected by the national control authorities. the point is that these authorities should cooperate properly with the european court of auditors and that they should be motivated to show such irregularities without any consequences for their country.
mr. chairman, please! today's report on the financing of the common agricultural policy, and in particular on the question of its transparency, is of great importance for the social perception of the community's citizens, and above all for european farmers. the publication of the beneficiaries of public aid will allow us to see more clearly the extent to which the funds are distributed. especially in the countries of the so-called old and new union. the rapporteur's proposal is very important in that it contains a provision on the requirement of comparability of data between member states. this will avoid false complaints between the members of the union about the size and the types of support for individual markets in the countries concerned and will allow action to be taken to level the playing field for farmers in terms of public support. in general, it should be stressed that adequate and clear financing of the agricultural policy, as well as adequate quantities of such production, guarantees food security for european consumers. european farmers must therefore have long-term security and financial prospects for their investments in agricultural holdings. the current calls for an early revision of the common agricultural policy are irresponsible and pose a threat to the food security of the union. the guarantees given to equalise farm subsidies for all member states by 2013 should also be borne in mind. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! we talk about a common agricultural policy, but there is no common policy. i am justified in saying this because the aid to agriculture varies not only between regions but also very clearly between the old and the new member states. to talk about a common agricultural policy we should have common, uniform principles, responsibilities, possibilities of obtaining support for production. but i think that the report is very desirable and necessary, because in the end we have to disclose how much is received, how the funds are used. improving statistics will not directly increase agricultural spending, but it will improve economic efficiency, transparency, and people's trust, and we as parliamentarians will also be able to draw the right conclusions and seek solutions together that will actually build a common agricultural policy on the same democratic and partnership-based principles for all the countries of the european union and for farmers, regardless of the region in which they live and work.
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's initiative to require member states to publish information on the beneficiaries of union funds received under the common agricultural policy is to be applauded. the publication of such information online in standards that ensure comparability of data between countries will not only significantly improve the transparency of budgetary expenditure and streamline the budgetary control process, but will also clearly highlight at least two major problems related to agricultural expenditure in the union. firstly, a very large proportion of direct subsidies in individual countries are directed not to farms but to large companies like smithfield or large latifundia like the estates of queen elizabeth ii of england. perhaps this kind of union-wide data will make it clear to policy-makers that the need to limit the single-farm payments to family farms rather than large farms is greater. secondly, there are very large disparities between the support per hectare of utilised agricultural area in the old member states and the new member states. this rate will be just over 60% in the period 2007-2013 and will be even lower after the accession of romania and bulgaria. so for every euro paid in the old union, only 0.60 euros will be paid in the new union countries, even though it is agriculture in the new countries that is supposed to catch up with the more developed agriculture in the old member states.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating an important report on the financing of the common agricultural policy. a policy for which we spend about 45% of the eu budget. the european commission's proposal aims to increase the transparency and credibility of expenditure for eu farmers and rural areas. the aim is to improve the perception and assessment of the union's citizens. however, there are still those who are against the common agricultural policy and who want to deprive our farmers of support at all costs and to put them in open and unequal competition with farmers in third countries. the question is, what about the food security of the union? i am sure that the members of the committee on agriculture share my view that no cuts should be made in the budget for the common agricultural policy. this budget is systematically decreasing, in 2013 it will represent only 33% of the total budget expenditure. it is hoped that these new regulations will contribute to the simplification of legislation, in line with the commission's 'better regulation' slogan. our citizens will be able to see what we are spending eu money on. in november this year, the commission is to present a communication on health check. i believe that the eu's direct payments system should be much simpler and more transparent, and that the level of subsidies should be uniform for all member states, that is, fair and understandable. i also hope that our colleagues in romania will overcome the current problems with their payment systems. it is unacceptable that romanian farmers should be harmed and punished by reductions in subsidies. they are as much needed in romania as in other member states. instead of punishing romanian farmers, help should be given to improve the system of subsidies.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i welcome mr staes' report, which is primarily concerned with reducing the scale of smuggling to the minimum. that's the value of this report. secondly, it gives good advice on how to collect the duty as efficiently as possible. i would like to draw attention to the external borders, as i come from a country with a very long eastern border, poland. mr herbert bösch is quite right about the use of experienced customs officers. these people will be making decisions even more than the equipment and systems, and that is why, commissioner, i would ask you to study these conclusions, proposals and recommendations quite carefully and take them to heart. efficiency and effectiveness in combating smuggling will be a factor in the reputation of our community.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to congratulate the honourable member for the committee on regional development, mrs jensen, on her excellent work. technical and organisational aspects play an important role in airport capacity. however, the issue must be considered in its entirety, including the local and regional airport environment. aviation has improved territorial, economic and social cohesion, especially in the context of remote areas. having these connections often determines the location of the investment, the flow of tourists. it's simply about the development of the region. the role of airports in job creation is also important. member states, regional and local authorities must ensure that these ports, irrespective of the managing body, are included in the regional development plans and national development strategies. however, this needs to be coordinated at the level of the european network. the location of airports must be determined not so much by the ambition of the authorities as by the logic of the operation. in the union, there are situations where quite large agglomerations, less than 100 km apart, have separate airports. a single airport between these cities would be essential. airports should be located in such a way that they can serve neighbouring regions, including border regions. wherever possible, intermodal solutions should be used, as high-speed rail links between airports significantly increase their capacity. of course, it is also necessary to ensure good communication between airports and the city centres that lie within their area. the maintenance and expansion of existing airports and the construction of new airports require impact assessments. this applies in particular to the natural environment, including noise, pollution emissions, heavy traffic near the port, proximity to fuel tanks, and weather conditions. finally, i would like to say that, both from my own experience and from the opinions of my constituents, a great deal depends on more than just technology, air traffic control systems, the timing of take-offs and landings, when it comes to airport capacity. too often we have to deal with a disastrous organization of work. an example of this is the way in which passengers are personally screened. mr thomas mann mentioned the airport in frankfurt. there, this check is done twice, or maybe once and that's good. there's also a lot of time wasted picking up luggage. were there sudden delays, for so-called operational reasons, or simply due to inefficiency, on the part of reputable airlines? at airports, passengers sometimes feel that they are not welcome customers but intruders who only disturb the staff and disrupt their work. but people want and need to fly, and that includes people with disabilities. air services provided by carriers and ports must be provided safely, on time and with a high level of customer culture. it'll be a great satisfaction for both parties. the commissioner's announcement gives me great hope that this will happen.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report by mrs anne jensen is a good, comprehensive account of the problems of airport capacity and ground handling. the dynamic growth of air traffic in the european union requires the construction of new airports and the expansion and modernisation of existing ones. the rapporteur notes that the choice of site for the airport is a difficult decision due to the size of the site and the fulfilment of a number of technical, organisational and social conditions, such as the consent of the community and local authorities, as well as safety and environmental conditions. therefore, the construction of medium and large airports should be planned well in advance and included in the overall union air traffic development programme. the construction of such ports is a very costly investment which will in many cases require eu support. the estimation of air passenger traffic does not seem to take account of high-speed rail, which on routes of up to 500 km are attractive in terms of price and time for passengers, such as the brussels-paris route, which links directly to city centres, where passengers are not burdened by the commutes and checks associated with flights. the estimates can also be greatly affected by the burden of taxes, the cost of aviation fuel, which causes ticket prices to rise. it is important for the industry and for customers to make full use of the reserves of better and more efficient flight organisation and ground handling services. as we know from our own experience, the quality of service at airports and carriers varies greatly and certain minimum requirements should be safeguarded and regulated by eu rules. the exchange of good practices between airports, organised on the initiative of the union authorities, can be a good way of improving the quality of services. the opinion report is a necessary document.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the council and of the representatives of the governments of the member states of the european union, meeting within the council, on the signing and provisional application of the air transport agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the united states of america, of the other part (8044/3/2007 com ((2006) 0169 c6-0210/2007 2006/0058 ((cns)) mep saïd el khadraoui rightly noted that it is important to create an open airspace between the eu and the us, enabling a single market for air services between the eu and the us. i agree that this would be a market where investment would be free and airlines from the european union and the united states would be able to provide air transport services without any restrictions, including on the domestic markets of both parties. that is a great step forward. it is important that the environmental issue is addressed the aviation sector has a number of negative environmental impacts, in particular through noise emissions and climate change. i therefore agree with the clause that both the european union and the united states should take effective measures to reduce the negative environmental impact of aviation.
madam president! i think a house should be built from the foundation, not the roof. mr lamassoure and mr severina's report is a house-building project. the foundation is the european treaty. first, it needs to be approved, and i think that's going to happen in a couple of weeks. therefore, although the report contains a number of good words, i voted against it, also because i do not agree that my country should be represented by as many as 3 fewer meps than it is now: 54 to 51. hence my vote against.
in writing. i regret that no new, lasting solution has been found for the allocation of seats to individual member states in the european parliament. the present distribution of seats is only a temporary solution, for the future parliamentary term only. the method of allocating seats is not clear and understandable to eu citizens. however, in addition to the use of degressive proportionality in the allocation of seats to the european parliament, political criteria played a significant role, thus affecting the representativeness of citizens, which should de facto be the most important factor. moreover, the proposed division of seats is based on the number of inhabitants, not on the citizens of a given country, which means that my country, poland, for example, is losing some 2 million of its citizens who are currently working in other eu countries because of temporary labour migration. it is worth adding, by the way, that this is completely incomprehensible, given that we in the european union promote the mobility of workers. once again, we are sending a signal that the rules on which the union is based are too complicated for citizens, which in turn leads to their growing reservations about the eu institutions.
in writing. today’s vote was crucial for the future working of the ep. it was necessary to have, on such a sensitive issue, a firm political indication from the ep towards the european council, showing that national interests can be overcome to agree on a better system than the one laid down by the nice treaty. even if the proposal made today is far from being perfect, it is fairer than the distribution of seats laid down by the nice treaty. after the ep unanimously called on the council to define the term ‘citizens’ as provided in article 9a(2) in good time before the next elections in 2014, i decided, in the interest of my country and the working of the ep, to vote in favour of the report, as this shows some progress in relation to what had been agreed upon before.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i vote in favour of the report by mrs anna jensen on airport capacity and ground handling: towards a more efficient policy (2007/2092 ((ini)). the report addresses the problem of ensuring adequate airport capacity. air traffic is increasing by 5.2% per year. it is estimated that by 2025 more than 60 airports will be unable to meet the demand for flights. in line with the spirit of the report, the growth of air transport will have to be accompanied by technical and regulatory programmes to limit its external costs. the rapporteur, anne jensen, rightly points out that only the coexistence of different types of airports and adaptation to the specificities of each country will enable the european union to meet the demand in this area.
mr. chairman, please! on october 10, two activists of the union of poles in belarus were detained in grodno: andzelika borys and igor bancer. on the pretext of being accused of hooliganism, bancer was sentenced to ten days in prison, and borys was fined about fifteen belarusian salaries. however, it is known that the actual reason for their detention was a planned opposition demonstration against the authoritarian regime of alexander lukashenko. the belarusian authorities have once again proven that independence of organization and freedom will not be tolerated in this country. the methods of intimidation, arrest under any pretext, and lying to western countries are ways lukashenka has long used to maintain tyranny. mr president, we cannot allow human rights to be violated in the european union's immediate vicinity, and that is to say, human dignity and freedom. europe will not be democratic if belarus is not a free country. so let's increase spending on supporting the people who want to free themselves from the yoke of the dictatorship of belarusian society. we demand respect for the rights of national minorities, the end of unjustified detentions and the release of political prisoners. it is the only way to change the system of this one tyranny and dictatorship in europe.
mr. chairman, please! last week, the european parliament hosted a group of people with multiple sclerosis. an exhibition, a concert, and a conference were devoted to the problems of those suffering from this serious disease. they were looking to parliament for help in their difficult situation, but in brussels they were met with drastic discrimination. the chairwoman of a society for the severely deaf and blind uses a guide dog to help her in her wheelchair. wizzair airlines refused to accept her and her dog on board, despite the fact that their regulations provide for the possibility of transporting guide dogs for blind and deaf people and that the computerised ticket booking also included a dog. it was only after an hour of negotiation that the decision was made to treat the case as an emergency and take the passenger and the dog. this situation undoubtedly contributed to her deteriorating health.
mr. chairman, please! last year, 25 european union countries signed a joint stabilisation and association pact between albania and the european union. today, 16 months after the signing of the agreement, only 10 countries have ratified the document. it is characteristic that of these ten, as many as six are new member states: poland, hungary, slovakia, slovenia, lithuania and latvia, and four are countries of the old union: spain, ireland, sweden and luxembourg. it is therefore appropriate to call on the other 17 member states to ratify the pact as soon as possible, unless we want the concept of european solidarity to be seen as a mere phrase or empty slogan.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr richard corbett on the amendment of rule 173 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament concerning the full report of the proceedings will be considered during today's sitting of the european parliament. in my opinion, the search committee is not going in the direction it should. i am entitled to say that article 96 states that 'parliament shall ensure the greatest possible transparency in its activities', so that any attempt to restrict the transmission and access of information to the peoples of the european union is contrary to fundamental rights, to the idea of the union, to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, to the existing arrangements and to the fundamental human rights of the european union. i do not think that we are building the european union to discriminate against the smaller and weaker nations, and if so, this should have been said before accession. nor is the argument that costs and financial resources are involved. we spend so much money on unnecessary facilities, on administration, that we should be able to afford to communicate with the public.
mr president, howard stern – sorry, the stern weekly showed the ‘private parts’ of the german society by publishing in its latest issue that every fourth german still believes that national socialism had good sides. well, if this is true, it may mean that either every fourth german in this hemicycle finds good sides of national socialism – which would be scandalous in itself – or this german delegation to the european parliament is not the voice of its whole nation. recently, germany was allocated 96 seats. having taken into consideration the statistics in stern, it would be wiser, perhaps, to allocate only three seats to that country so that there would be no chance for the fourth one! however, i agree with mr schulz with regard to one thing: in a united europe, there is no place for the doctrine of nationalism in any dimensions. however, mr schulz should take a closer look at the backyard of german hooliganism. as for me, being from poland, i wish all german members would speak against nationalism as much as mr schulz.
mr. chairman, please! in the psychological order, such feelings as responsible love for another human being, family or country, called patriotism, along with other higher feelings, indicate a high degree of personal development. higher emotions, unlike the primitive emotions expressed by animals, have even a different representation in the brain. patriotism is the love and cherishing of a nation's traditions, culture, and language, and is an attitude of respect and devotion to one's own homeland as opposed to nationalism and chauvinism, which is characterized by hatred of others. patriotism doesn't allow you to insult your nation and your country. it is characterized above all by openness to other nations, by recognition of their right to sovereignty and independence. i recall the characteristics of patriotism, especially after the speeches of some left-wing mps who insult national governments and patriotic attitudes, perhaps not understanding the difference between love of the homeland and the hatred that characterizes such attitudes as chauvinistic. especially in the context of european integration, these very different but often confused concepts should be distinguished.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the three reports presented are inextricably linked. the european union is working to minimise the negative effects of pesticides on the environment and to prevent their accumulation in soil, water and plants. in recent years, much has been done to minimize these effects. research units have played a special role in developing more advanced and increasingly selective preparations. but let's remember that in previous years, pesticides were of much lower quality, used in much higher doses, many times higher, and therefore the pollution of our environment is a result of the past years. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. i ask you to be more active in this matter because despite the passing of the years, the problems are still coming, and the threat is growing, not decreasing, as was demonstrated at the last ngo forum in chisinau.
madam president! the use of plant protection products - pesticides - is necessary under certain conditions. in poland, small farms dominate, and their owners, lacking money, save on expensive pesticides, sometimes losing their crops to pests. i support all measures to promote the rational use of plant protection products, including advice, training, research, subsidies for modern plant protection equipment, and the introduction of substitutes for pesticides which are environmentally and health-friendly and in the interests of farmers. ignorance and lack of proper support for farmers can lead to uncontrolled use of pesticides in cases of crop failure. the old but not fully solved problem is the disposal of highly toxic pesticide deposits, including soil reclamation, that exist or have existed in the former soviet bloc countries. they poison the water and the soil. this baggage could weaken the effects of the actions prepared in the documents.
madam president! producers, forced to produce food that looks perfect, are putting pesticides on the market that are harmful not only to the environment and the economy, but especially to human health. i hope that the documents discussed will improve the quality of the food we eat and lead to a change in production methods to more ecological ones, with more use of natural fertilizers for soil fertilization. in addition, in connection with the unethical practices of exporting to third world countries, without any scruples, many substances considered harmful, i will quote a popular proverb in poland: "do not do to others what you do not like". the more so because dangerous pesticides are back in the form of food products that are then bought cheaply by rich countries and are destroying human health. in addition to general guidelines, strategies for the sustainable use of pesticides should be addressed at national level, where appropriate actions can be considered. the reduction in pesticide use should be greater where more pesticides are used.
madam president! today's debate is of crucial importance for european agriculture and environmental protection. there are many who favor and many who oppose the use of pesticides. however, i believe that farmers should be guided by the principle of 'as few pesticides as necessary' and producers and distributors by the precautionary principle, which should be the overriding principle from the point of view of the lives and health of consumers in all those cases where the introduction of new pesticides on the market raises doubts due to the lack of scientific evidence or to a too short period of time which would allow it to be established without any doubt that a product or substance is not harmful to humans or animals. in the context of the sustainable use of pesticides, i also believe that the following steps should be taken: first, the commission and the member states should provide periodic training, advisory and educational programmes, at least partly financed by the pesticide companies. the monitoring and collection of data on the adverse effects of pesticides on human health and the environment, including long-term research programmes, and the imposition of sanctions on polluters should be coordinated. a coordinated system should be established to collect information on the production, import, export, sale, distribution and use of pesticides publicly available to the public. agricultural practices promoting the use of low doses of pesticides should be promoted, which will contribute to a change in the overall consumption of these products. appropriate controls should be carried out and the importation into the union of agri-food products for which chemicals have been used in their production should be prohibited.
madam president! the key to the sustainable use of plant protection products is the rational reduction of risks. we should achieve this by implementing the principles of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. each country will be required to prepare its own plan as defined in the guidelines. each country should do so taking into account local conditions and respecting differences. we differ mainly in the level of agricultural development, i repeat: the level of agricultural development. the countries that are new members of the european union often have a huge development gap to fill. reducing pesticide use in these countries from their current levels will ultimately backfire on us as consumers if we do not take into account the current levels of pesticide use, which are relatively low. we also have different landscapes. in poland, large areas of forest can be protected from pests only by aerial treatment. it is our duty to the environment to protect forests, and it is the task of parliament to set the rules for the safe use of environmental protection measures. the directive says a lot about the most important factor in implementing the sustainable use of pesticides, which is the farmer's knowledge. supporting education, creating the conditions to reach every farmer is the task of all of us. in introducing the amendment on the rules for the provisional national authorizations of pesticides, i am in favour of a mechanism for replacing older preparations with more modern and safer ones as soon as possible. i'm asking for her support. the guidelines of the directive should encourage rational action and not discourage either the member states or farmers.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the commission's initiative to amend rule 173 of parliament's rules of procedure has me wondering about the european union. who is this union for? for the doctrinaires or for the people? if it's for humans, why is it being proposed against humans? what's he trying to hide from people? hide it like that. because the intention to restrict access to information in one's own language leads to this. why are basic civil rights being violated and people being discriminated against based on their date of accession to the european union, the size of their nation? what is common to the principle of mutual respect and democracy is the attempt to force a situation where citizens of the old eu member states receive material from the european parliament, including written in their own languages, while citizens of the new member states go to websites to listen to recordings of the proceedings. what is not noticed is that in the new member states many citizens cannot yet afford to have internet access in their own homes. it's affecting millions of people, it's depriving millions of people of information. how silly to justify the proposed decision by cost . does this mean that we can afford to spend hundreds of millions of euros on unnecessary administration, maintaining double or even triple parliament premises, and not be able to inform citizens, taxpayers, how the union spends its money and where it is going? ladies and gentlemen, if we respect ourselves and the people, there can be only one solution and no combinations. we are fulfilling article 96, which says: 'parliament shall ensure the greatest possible transparency in its activities'.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, this parliament is like the tower of babel, an allegory of the habsburg empire, which was full of sycophants. it is the european union’s attempt to build an international empire based on a unified creed, with federalists, liberals, cosmopolitans and sycophant humanist thinkers. the tower was an idea of lunatics, however. its ultimate failure is attributed to linguistic differences, or what is called ‘multilingualism’ in the european union. the corbett report seems to deny the nations of europe to communicate effectively. mr corbett’s idea to draw up europe as a multilingual document is like waiting for godot, which is a communicative stagnation. the report is a way to create a diversion from a real problem. to communicate and understand one another, we need a dialogue, not a monologue. the only instrument for this purpose is, therefore, translation into all 22 official languages. otherwise we are heading towards communicative chaos. however, as the translation of my speeches into polish sometimes does not even render 50% of what i have actually said, my amendment 2 should therefore be included in the report. i would urge all members to vote for amendments that aim to preserve translation into all 22 languages and reject mr corbett’s amendment 1, which has been tabled as the committee amendment on the voting list.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate the rapporteur on his report. when discussing the whole issue of a community strategy to reduce co2 emissions, it should be borne in mind that the automotive industry alone employs 2 million people in europe, to which must be added 10 million workers associated with the sector. the industry accounts for 3.5% of european gdp. the value of exports is €33.5 billion net and, not least, car taxes bring in €365 billion a year for the member states. the community strategy for reducing co2 emissions will only succeed if it is balanced and takes into account the timeframe needed for manufacturers to prepare the appropriate technological solutions. i am in favour of an appropriate transitional period because the production cycle in the motor vehicle sector is complex and requires a longer period of adjustment. the most optimal date for the introduction of the rules therefore seems to be 2015, which is also the reason why the euro 6 regulation enters into force at that time. i also believe that an integrated approach to co2 reduction should be adopted. studies show that reaching the 120 g/km target through automotive technological improvements alone will increase the average car sales price by around eur 3 600, which could make many car brands less accessible to the average eu citizen. therefore, relying solely on engine technology to reduce co2 emissions is the most expensive solution. the 120 g level can be reached by incorporating additional solutions such as the introduction of biofuels to a greater extent than currently, the introduction of additional solutions in vehicles such as gear ratios or low rolling resistance tyres.
member of the commission. mr president, i would like to start by expressing my appreciation for the quality of this evening’s debate. i would like to comment, time permitting, on three of the issues you have addressed. regarding the ambitious level of the strategy, the commission has proposed its strategy on the basis of a thorough impact assessment. we have analysed the various options of a level to reduce co2 emissions from cars, taking into account measurability, monitorability and accountability. on this basis we have proposed to deliver the 120 g of co2 per kilometre objective through an integrated approach. one hundred and thirty grams will be delivered through passenger car technology and ten additional grams will be provided through complementary measures, including fuel efficiency targets for light commercial vehicles and an increased use of biofuels. this approach towards achieving the 120 g target is, in our view, the most cost-effective combination of options, and we will thus propose legislation accordingly. secondly, the legislative framework implementing the integrated approach will be the central pillar of our revised strategy, but it is not the only one. as underlined in your report, finding ways to encourage consumer demand for fuel-efficient cars will enable us significantly to reduce their environmental impact, along with the fuel bill of drivers in the european union. in the context of the review in the car labelling directive, we will take into account the recommendations made by parliament in the field of consumer information. thirdly, the commission agrees that a longer-term strategy should be considered, in order to provide predictability to car makers. we will thus consider the potential for progress beyond 2012, and the 120 g objective, on the basis of an impact assessment. in this context, the commission will take into account the recommendations made by parliament concerning future emission targets. i believe i have addressed some of the main concerns that have been voiced, and i hope that plenary will adopt a resolution which strongly supports the approach proposed by the commission.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, october 24th.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr herbert reul on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy on 'conventional energy sources and energy technologies' (a6-0348/2007).
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to echo the views of mr herbert reul on the diversification of electricity production, the diversification of sources and the improvement of efficiency and use. it is not new to the energy science community that natural resources are steadily declining. for years, leading research centers have been monitoring the rate of consumption of natural resources and producing alarming reports. the conclusions of these reports clearly indicate that continuing to rely solely on conventional energy sources in the future could lead to an energy crisis in the world economy. the shrinking raw materials supply means that europe will import more and more from neighbouring countries, which may lead to a slow dependency on suppliers. we have already seen the negative effects of this policy on several occasions in the neighbouring countries. one of the main challenges facing the european union is therefore to diversify the use of energy sources and to work on the development of new energy technologies. positive policy in this area will not only benefit society and the economy, but also the environment. but i would like to stress here that not all countries will be able to meet this policy in the short term. this is due to historical circumstances which have resulted in the energy industry being lagging behind the old union countries for a number of years. so from the perspective of a citizen of such a country, i would like to point out that as i said, countries like poland and others in this geographical area will have to go a longer way than western european countries in modernizing their energy industry. please note this particular point. in view of climate change, and in particular the interests of countries with a large coal-based energy economy, the union's commitment to clean coal as an environmentally sound technology should be increased.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: energy is crucial for market competitiveness and the quality of life of the citizens of the union. therefore, the main policy and economic objectives are the efficiency of sustainable energy production, the final efficiency through the reduction of energy consumption, and the reliability and security of energy supply. achieving these goals will also result in social security. we must not forget that every unit of energy is paid for directly or indirectly by our citizens. the competitiveness of the union's economies is, among other things, enhanced by the better use of regional fossil fuel resources. however, this will only happen if the commission ensures that the emissions trading scheme does not hinder the replacement of existing power plants, e.g. coal-fired power plants, by more modern ones with lower co2 emissions. poland has already reduced its emissions by 32% since 1988, while the countries of the old union have reduced much less in the same period. the current per capita emissions in poland are 7 tonnes per year, while in the old eu countries they are several times higher. it cannot be that in such a situation poland is obliged to drastically reduce its co2 emission rights by almost another 30% from next year. this is a commission decision with very negative social consequences. my country cannot be a victim of political climate hysteria. we know that the climate has changed, it's changing, and it's going to change, and we know that we have to deal with the effects of that change, which is drought, flooding, lack of fresh water. however, justice requires that co2 emissions reductions are linked to the per capita emissions of the union countries. the point is that the cost of emissions is not arbitrarily shaped by constraints and unclear rules. competitiveness cannot be a function of false market incentives and the price of energy must reflect its real costs. it seems that all possible but proven methods of carbon dioxide absorption, including biological methods as well as methane capture, should be used. however, the current priority should be to improve the efficiency of primary energy conversion to other forms of energy by means of pilot plants for gasification, hydrogen production and coal liquefaction. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr reul, for his fruitful cooperation in the preparation of this report, which is characterised by a comprehensive and balanced and forward-looking approach to both fossil fuels and nuclear energy.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on conventional energy sources and energy technologies, i would like to thank mr herbert reul for his comprehensive report on this subject. firstly, the author of the report rightly points out that the most important issue for the future of energy from conventional fuels is the joint action of the european union countries in this field. secondly, given that the european union's dependence on fossil fuel imports will increase to around 70% by 2030 and, in the case of oil imports, to 94%, it is necessary to maximise the use of the energy resources of the mines in the european union's member states. third, such an energy resource is coal, whose reserves in germany account for as much as 7% of the world's reserves, and in poland for 2% of those reserves. it is important that the extraction of this fuel and the generation of energy from it is not questioned, because electricity produced from fossil fuels is still half as cheap as that produced from renewable sources. fourthly, the environmental risks of coal-fired electricity generation require joint european investment in research into new coal-fired technologies, financed from the european union budget. finally, fifth, support is needed for eu countries investing in nuclear energy. in this context, i would like to draw your attention to the agreement on the construction of a modern nuclear power plant in ignalina by poland, lithuania, estonia and latvia.
mr. chairman, please! of the energy sources listed in the report, only one is available in larger quantities in the european union - coal, both hard and brown. we have to import most of the rest of our energy. energy demand will increase as we develop. we don't know how far we'll go in renewable energy or hydrogen batteries, but they need energy supply. so despite our best efforts, we should not give up coal as an available energy source too quickly. we're not doing enough to develop clean coal power. increase the amount of coal processing and boiler and generator efficiency. we need to preserve our energy security, and one of the elements of that security is coal, which is available in almost all the countries of the union. we can't help but like our natural wealth. finally, i would like to congratulate mr herbert reul and his colleagues on an excellent, balanced report, and i fully support it.
member of the commission. mr president, as was mentioned, this is the third report on the commission decision and the later decision of the european council. the vidal-quadras report has helped us formulate the internal market package. the thomsen report will have a huge influence on our proposals on renewables. i can also promise that we will follow the vote on the reul report very carefully, because the outcome of that report will influence the approach to ccs – first of all the legal proposal and also the report – and also our strategic energy technology plan and our future policy, as far as the euratom treaty gives us a mandate for nuclear energy. that is why this vote will be very carefully followed by the commission. at the same time i would like to emphasise a couple of points. it was mentioned that we need to modernise the energy sector. if i recall – now, in 2007 – the first debate in 2004, i believe we have achieved a lot. definitely, security of supply and climate change are closely related, with perhaps just one major difference at this stage, which is the cost for carbon sequestration, but i believe oil price developments will help. at the same time, weather challenges were mentioned. we do not invest in sufficient resources. we should really decide on priorities. without massive investment in research and development in the energy sector, we will not succeed. i believe the three-year debate was very helpful to prepare the ground. but now it is really time to address the issues. how can one claim, for example, that some member states are dependent on third countries when the structural funds are not being used for energy at all, or practically not at all! i would say also the part in national budgets for research and development is small. so these are the crucial issues to deal with. i am afraid that not much time is left until we have some serious perturbation in the market. so, we need to act, and to act now, on the basis on which parliament has worked so far. there was also mention of one particular issue: that we need sufficient energy resources. sufficient resources need energy demand management. here again, parliament has moved and the commission has moved, and at the same time i needed to start 12 infringement cases for not communicating energy efficiency action plans, the basis for action on energy demand. with regard to demand and dependence on third countries, this is also something that we should overcome. i think the saryusz-wolski report was a courageous attempt to go for it. if one member state is being blackmailed by a supplier, it should speak out. because the basic reason is that we have a common foreign and security policy (cfsp) that could give the necessary grounds for common action, and i believe that any country that has enough courage to blackmail any of the eu countries will think twice, or never again blackmail, if this is spoken of and discussed in the council. the last part of my intervention will be on nuclear energy. it is very clear that, under the reform treaty, the energy mix comes under national decision-making. that means that the decision on nuclear energy is to be made by each and every member state. but it should also be understood that conditions now definitely demand that the legislation in place should guarantee transparency and predictability, because it is a very long-term investment. mr swoboda also mentioned non-proliferation issues. we are looking at these, but in my opinion, it is very clear that the cfsp has priority and euratom should fill in and help. it is definitely the cfsp that should lead our activities on non-proliferation. two very concrete responses. first of all, mochovce. slovenské elektrárne has indeed notified its intention to construct a nuclear power plant. it is for a vvr reactor 440/213 but it is not of the chernobyl type. the commission, in accordance with article 41 of the euratom treaty, will prepare an opinion, taking full account of all the challenges this decision poses. this will take time, but you can be assured that the commission will perform the correct assessment and will not hesitate if we have any doubts about the safety of this equipment. on the issue of coming here to talk about the closure of some of the nuclear units, a debate on this issue would not be productive. this issue was agreed by the experts who prepared the ground. it was discussed at a political level and it was agreed at government level and sealed by a referendum in all the member states, including the countries where these reactors are. please do not return to this, because it distracts us from future developments. there is no way these reactors will get the green light for prolonging their work time. this is a dead end. please understand that there will be no development. i know, perhaps, you have personal views on it, but there will definitely not be developed, at least from the european commission. the opinion has been formed. it was democratically agreed, and let us keep and honour the commitment. i greatly appreciate the report that has been drawn up. it is a very difficult report and i believe it has got the accent right. i hope that the vote will definitely help us finalise the paper that we are to prepare by the end of the year.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, october 24th.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by sharon bowles, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european consultative council on statistical management (c6-0348/2006 -) (), and the report by ieke van den burg, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european advisory committee on community statistical information policy (c6-0379/2006 -).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mrs bowles and mrs van den burg on their reports. we should be aware of the role played by the european statistical system, which can be a leader in the world system. it's not just about the transparency of numbers or tables or charts. the most important thing is the reliability and completeness of statistics, both at community, national and, i would stress, regional level. it is necessary to ensure the continuity of this information and its availability. i would add here that only statistics that are collected and aggregated in the same way - in accordance with the principles of mathematical statistics - will be fair and transparent and not susceptible to short-term interests or occasional priorities. my experience in regional policy clearly points to such risks. it is therefore welcome that we have a union statistical programme for 2008-2012. however, its implementation requires the appropriate money and above all the right substantive consultation, the supervision of the statistical procedure code and the management of statistics. this is very important given the diversity of systems in the member states and the need for coordination and unification at the level of the 27 member states and the statistical offices and eurostat. in this context, i support both reports.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the honourable members - in particular the rapporteurs, but also all the other speakers in the debate - for their participation and cooperation in improving statistical governance in the european union and in improving - through the reform of the second committee - the participation of users in european social and economic life in order to have a better statistical system, a more credible system. we are talking about a system and - as mrs van den burg has said - both the european statistical agency (eurostat) and the national statistical institutes of the 27 member states have to live up to the demands and the hopes we place in them, they have to cooperate, they have to work in a coordinated way, they have to stimulate each other, and that is why the code of good practice and the way it is being applied is, in my view, a very positive element. i hope that this new body will be able to appreciate what it deserves and also to stimulate its functioning for the future, because it is very important to have good statistics for many aspects. mr gauzès referred to the stability and growth pact. i did that in my opening statement, too. it is very important that we have reliable figures in this multilateral framework for monitoring budgetary discipline. but it is also very important to have reliable figures of the national product to finance the european union; it is also very important to have a reliable price index; it is also very important to have statistics on foreign trade; it is also very important to have statistics on foreign investment or on trade or financial flows. so in all the areas we were discussing - and i listened to that in the previous energy item - energy statistics are extremely important, such as statistics on immigration or on issues related to the so-called third pillar. there are so many, so many areas of activity - practically all areas of activity in the european union - that require good statistics that the importance of this discussion - even if, as mrs van den burg says, it is not very sexy - is obvious and i hope that these two bodies will live up to what we are asking of them through these two regulations. there's going to be a rule, also very important, called the "statistical law". i hope that with the whole of this package and with the very meritorious effort being made by both eurostat and all the officials working in the european statistical agency and the national statistical institutes of the 27 member states, in the coming years the doubts about the quality of european statistics will diminish to disappear, if possible, and that this will result in greater efficiency and in our policies and our decisions being more in tune with the demands and aspirations of the european citizens, because that is what we are talking about when we talk about statistics.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday, october 24th.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. in taking part in the debate on the impact of tax and customs policy on the implementation of the lisbon strategy, i would like to point out that some of the suggestions made in the report by mrs sahra wagenknecht on the tax systems of the member states will not have a positive impact on economic growth and employment in the countries of the european union. first, the prevention of tax competition and the attempt to harmonise corporate tax arrangements are contrary to the principle of the tax sovereignty of the member states of the european union. secondly, the reduction of corporate tax rates and the simultaneous abolition of corporate tax rebates not only do not reduce the budget revenues for this purpose, but on the contrary significantly increase them. this is confirmed by the example of my country, poland, where the corporate income tax rate has been significantly reduced and the revenue from this tax is higher year on year. thirdly, in this situation, i consider the suggestions in the report on coordination and tax systems, including direct taxes, to be dangerous and certainly not conducive to the objectives of the lisbon strategy.
mr. chairman, please! the main objective of the lisbon strategy is to increase the competitiveness of national economies. a high level of competitiveness helps to accelerate economic growth, create new jobs and finance important social objectives. unfortunately, the current tax system in the eu member states is not conducive to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the tax burden on labour and business rights is too high, tax rates are too varied and the rules are too complex. at the same time, the tax system is overburdened with an excessive number of economic, fiscal, social and environmental functions and tasks. in order to be competitive, taxes must first create incentives for work, business development and innovation. to that end, taxes, especially direct taxes, should be set at a moderate level, avoiding unnecessary differentiation of rates and excessive progression. as direct taxes have a stronger negative impact on output and employment, more use should be made of indirect taxes in budgetary planning. as for the debate, mr president, i am concerned that there is too much ideology and politics and not enough real economic knowledge. the best example is the notions we use here, like fiscal dumping or social dumping. there is no objective standard of taxation and therefore no allegation of fiscal dumping can be made against those countries which impose low levels of taxation on companies.
ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i would like to congratulate the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the difficult and generally successful operation of making the necessary changes to the original text, which was the original speech. initially, we were asked not only to involve the european union in setting corporate tax rules, but also to raise those taxes against global trends. i'm glad we avoided that. for similar reasons, we should take a critical look at the support for tax base harmonisation left in the text. the community tax base is in fact the same blow to tax competition in the union, with all the negative consequences of this. its introduction will limit member states' efforts to optimise corporate taxation in a way that is contrary to the lisbon objectives. this will place a political burden on the union, which, in its own well-defined interest, should refrain from influencing the shape of tax systems in europe.
mr president of the council, mr president of the commission! i am very pleased that the process of treaty reform is coming to an end. not because the changes proposed fully reflect my beliefs about integration - sometimes they are quite remote. my satisfaction is more due to the fact that we have been devoting too much time and political energy to institutions lately. i am convinced that the success of the union does not depend on the institutional set-up or the mechanics of power. this success depends on political will, a shared vision of the future. i hope that once ratification is complete, we will have nothing to stop us from taking on a europe of results, from taking more responsibility for global security, from having a more active influence on our neighbours, from finally talking about enlargement of the european union, from finally winning also competition, investment and growth. contrary to what has been said for the last seven years, institutional change is neither a complete nor a sufficient answer to these problems.
mr. chairman, please! despite the wild claims and baseless criticism of poland in recent debates in the european parliament, especially by the head of the socialists, the lisbon summit turned out to be a diplomatic compromise. both the eu and polish authorities saw the possibility of an agreement. the eu side has recognised the importance and potential of poland by increasing the number of advocates at the court of justice, while also preserving the mechanism of the joanna. it is to be hoped that the compromise reached at the summit is only a prelude to consultation with the peoples of europe. the draft treaty on the reform of the union is too important to be smuggled into the recesses of political offices. it should be recalled that the previous version of this treaty was lost in referendums in two member states. to deny citizens a second say in the future of the union would not only be a violation of one of its fundamental values, but would also clearly indicate the fear of the ruling class of the vote of their own electorate. let the dictators of democracy allow the people themselves to express their will as to the future vision of the union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by expressing my deep gratitude to the portuguese presidency. a great success has been achieved. the european union needed a way out of its sense of defeat and failure, it needed a political dimension and thanks to the portuguese presidency it got it. i also think it is extremely important that the charter of fundamental rights is part of these decisions and i would add that the charter of fundamental rights is a compass, an instrument of europe. i cannot imagine that a country that wants to be part of the european union can simultaneously exclude itself from what constitutes its moral, philosophical and political basis. my colleague andrew duff was critical of the british government's decision to opt out. i'm in a better place. the polish government, which has requested an opt-out as a result of the decision of the polish people, is leaving power. i would like to express my deep hope that, after the political change that has taken place in my country and out of loyalty to the tradition that is the polish tradition and the tradition of polish solidarity, poland will fully respect the charter of fundamental rights. poland will accede fully to the charter of fundamental rights without an opt-out.
mr. chairman, please! we have a new treaty, and that is a good thing. but the most important thing is that the treaty is good. it is good because it responds to the challenges facing europe today. it also fulfils the objectives which were committed to in the laeken declaration six years ago. in line with these objectives, the treaty streamlines and simplifies both the institutional framework and the legal system of the union. it democratises the european union by, among other things, strengthening the legislative role of our parliament. it brings the union closer to its citizens, inter alia through the citizens' legislative initiative. will it make the union more relevant and more effective in the world? but this depends not only on the institutions that the treaty introduces or modifies, it depends above all on the political will of the leaders of the member states. if that will is lacking, all the institutional reforms have been in vain. so that the treaty does not remain a dead law, a dead document, i wanted to call for a common political will at the time of its signature and after its ratification.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. i didn't think last week would end so well. firstly, we adopted the new reform treaty at the lisbon summit, which is a great success, and i warmly congratulate prime minister sócrates, president barroso and all of us on this. it was done without vetoes and without additional wars to shape it. in my view, this means that the european union has emerged from its institutional crisis. secondly, the good news comes from my country, where the undoubted success of the last few days has been the removal from power of the anti-european and far-right government in poland. this position of the polish public is a confirmation of what i have repeatedly stressed the majority of poles support european integration, poles want poland as a partner, not an opponent in the european union. such events undoubtedly inspire optimism about the future of our common european project. i believe that the european union is ready to meet the challenges of the future and, as prime minister socrates rightly pointed out, now the european union is a stronger and more coherent structure internally, and a much stronger negotiating partner in international global relations. the positions of president of the council and high representative for the common foreign and security policy are powerful tools which, if used well, can positively enhance the image of the european union. in addition, one of the most important achievements of the agreement is the legally binding nature of the charter of fundamental rights. i hope that the new polish government will withdraw its decision to exclude polish citizens from the provisions of chapter iv of the charter entitled 'solidarity'. this chapter contains provisions particularly close to the polish and european left regarding labour and trade union rights.
mr. chairman, please! the debate on the european treaty after the lisbon summit can be considered closed, because now we have only one, the most important objective the ratification of the treaty as soon as possible, as quickly as possible. parliament's role is here, because please remember that we are more important under the treaty than we have been. the three points are: the description of the role and tasks of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and his selection, since this is a co-decision with the council of the european union as of 1 january 2009. we must prepare for codecision in several areas, and above all in security and justice. thirdly, we need to have a political debate to fine-tune the rules of the presidency of the european council, and in particular its relationship with the european parliament. but the most important thing is ratification, and that depends very much on us meps. it's going to be different in every country. we must find ways of convincing the citizens that this is a success not only of the union, not only of politicians, but above all of themselves. this is our main task ratification. thank you and congratulations.
in writing. the truth about the reform treaty is the same as that about the euro-constitution. these acts transform the international organisation that is the european community, and the union between its members, which is the european union, into a continental super-state. they also recognize this superstate (by acceding to the european convention on human rights of 1950, to which only states can be parties). they open a new way to create a single european law without the participation of the member states (through the interpretation of the charter of fundamental rights by the ets). examples of similar meaning can be cited over and over again. in this situation, we are faced with the question of the guarantees of the rights of the peoples of europe in the new super-state, whereas until now these guarantees have been provided by the member states themselves to their peoples. this problem was not raised at all in the reformation treaty. since the rights of nations are nothing but human rights elevated to the level of community life, the project of establishing a super-state has brought about a human rights crisis in europe. the reform treaty must therefore be rejected and fundamental work must be undertaken on a system guaranteeing the rights of nations in the context of european integration. otherwise, europe is in danger of another explosion of totalitarianism.
in writing. the anti-globalization fund was created in 2006 under the clear influence of the defeat of the constitutional referendum in france. from the outset, it seemed to be a compensatory formula, more concerned with the exaggerated problem of the so-called relocation of jobs to the new member states than with the problem of globalisation. as such, the fund is a response to the fears of enlargement of the european union, in effect strengthening them and conveying the benefits that the new and old member states derive from the unification of europe in 2004. it is no wonder that we start with the application of france for the problems of the suppliers peugeot and renault for the amount of 3.8 million euros. the application is duly justified and has received the full support of the committee on budgets of the european parliament. i hope that the anti-globalization fund will not become a typical rent-seeking scheme in the future, i.e. an easy way of obtaining eu subsidies for companies in difficulty - awarded according to not very precise criteria. too many european companies are facing the challenge of restructuring in the name of competitiveness in the global economy for the fund, with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million, to meet all their needs.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say that i voted in favour of mrs christy klaß's report also because it refers to the tightening of the proposals which have come from the european commission. specifically, these are national action plans to reduce pesticide use by 25% over 5 years and by half 50% over 10 years. it is very important that the european parliament is more strict on this issue, more pro-environmental than the european commission. i also wanted to emphasize that my vote was influenced by the fact that the report we voted on states that all member states will create buffer zones so that pesticides do not reach water bodies, including drinking water.
in writing. the key to the sustainable use of plant protection products is to reduce risks in a rational manner. we should achieve this by implementing the principles of the directive on the sustainable use of pesticides. each country will be required to prepare its own plan in accordance with the guidelines defined in the directive. each country should do so taking into account local conditions and respecting differences. the main difference between us is the level of development of agriculture. the countries that are new members of the european union often have a huge backlog to catch up with, especially in terms of the quality and health of the food they produce. reducing pesticide use in these countries from the current levels of use will backfire on us consumers. we also have different landscapes. in poland, large areas of forest can be protected from pests only by aerial treatment. it is our duty to the environment to protect forests, and it is the task of parliament to set the rules for the safe use of environmental protection measures. the directive says a lot about the most important way to implement sustainable use of pesticides, which is to educate farmers. it is parliament's job to promote education and to create the conditions for reaching every farmer. the guidelines of the directive should encourage, not discourage, both member states and farmers.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr kyösti kirrankoski and mr ville itälä, and all the members of the committee on budgets for their contribution to the budget and for the excellent cooperation. thank you very much. thank you. and is the second budget of the current budgetary perspective, apart from the amount of the amounts, significantly different from the previous ones? we must continue to finance the expenditure of previous years as usual, and we can only change the budget in part. such significant items are: funding for the european institute of innovation and technology and the galileo project. funding for palestine and kosovo was also increased. there are also significant changes in the funding of the common agricultural policy and the specialised agencies. is it a big mistake to mismatch the amounts for future expenses? is it possible to do exactly that a year in advance? we're trying, but we always have the budget to adjust, and that's very important. maybe we should create bigger positions in the future, because it's a much more flexible budget. finally, i would like to thank mr kyösti kirrankoski once again. working with him, despite the very difficult field, was a great pleasure.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in its opinion, the committee on regional development paid particular attention to those budget lines which concern the heading or chapter xiii, regional policy. we have called for all budget lines in the preliminary draft budget to be maintained or, if necessary, reinstated. the committee on budgets has complied with our requests and even requested an increase of eur 900 million in line 130616 on the european regional development fund. the committee on budgets also shared our concern that the unallocated part of the cohesion funds was being used to supplement the funding of other projects, such as the european institute of technology, by means of a council decision, which would be contrary to the principle of cohesion and would also reduce the prerogatives of the european parliament. in conclusion, this is not the budget of our dreams, it is not a budget that could excite us, but the committee on regional development supports the draft budget proposed by the committee on budgets. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in taking part in the debate on the 2008 budget, i would like to draw attention to the following points. firstly, although the expenditure in this budget of almost eur 129 billion is the highest in the history of the union, the ratio of this expenditure to the gross national income of the 27 countries of the european union is the lowest and amounts, after the amendments of the committee on budgets of the european parliament, to only 0.99% of the gross national income in commitment appropriations, which i would like to stress. secondly, the financial perspective for 2007-13 sets the ceiling for commitment appropriations for 2008 at 1.08% of the gross national income of the member states, so there is a significant discrepancy between what was wanted to be financed two years ago and what the european union wants to finance today. you can't have more europe for much less money. that has been said many times in this chamber and it needs to be said again. thirdly, the decisions of the budget committee of the european parliament to significantly increase the funding for the galileo programme, the european institute of technology and certain external actions of the european union should be supported. fourthly, we must demand that the european commission adopts as soon as possible the programmes submitted by the member states on regional and rural development. in particular, over €20 billion will be directed to the new member states in 2008. it would therefore be good if these funds could be used as effectively as possible. fifthly, the launch of the globalisation adjustment fund is also worth noting, as it will allow firms suffering from the negative effects of globalisation to benefit from transitional support and save european union jobs.
mr. chairman, please! we are still at the beginning of a new financial perspective, which is why we are carefully planning our spending for 2008. this is the fourth annual budget of this parliament's term of office, so we have enough experience of the budgetary procedure, the specific rules of the game between parliament, the commission and the council. perhaps that is why the record number of amendments was voted through smoothly in the committee on budgets under the efficient leadership of reimer böge in a spirit of consensus, which will certainly facilitate the block voting on thursday and will certainly give us more negotiating power when shaping the draft budget for 2008. the priorities for 2008 were repeatedly mentioned, with funding for the galileo programme being mentioned as a problem. i am therefore pleased to note that for the first time the baltic sea region has been included in this draft budget not on the basis of declarations but in the financial, i.e. real, sense. perhaps that is because both the commissioner, the two rapporteurs and the head of the budget committee are residents of this region. it is good that the european union is making global commitments, but the bigger the european union, the greater the responsibility for our own continent, including the baltic sea region, which is the internal sea of the european union at the moment, and everyone knows how bad it is. it is therefore good that we have found a financial instrument in the form of pilot projects and preparatory actions to increase funding for regional development, maritime safety, border facilitation and, above all, environmental protection. i hope that these priorities will be reflected in the european commission's rigid mirror, as will our entire budget strategy.
ladies and gentlemen! today we are to decide, among other things, on the granting of the first tranche of financial support to the european institute of technology. this is a particularly important and expected decision for wroclaw, which is trying to locate this institution in its own country. it is very unfortunate that we have not been able to establish this institution before the end of the negotiations on the budgetary perspective, and this makes it very difficult for it to get going. today we have the chance to make up for that delay and to give about 3 million euros to start the institute. its full financing in 2010-2011 can only be ensured by a review of the budgetary perspective. i assure you, this money will prove to be a good investment. this is evidenced by the willingness and enthusiasm of the lower silesian local government, business and the scientific world to join this project. that is why i am asking you to accept these amendments.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
member of the commission. i do not quite know what the change of direction is that the honourable member is referring to; there is no change of direction and, as i have made clear, neither the stakeholders responding to the review nor the commission takes the view that a fundamental overhaul or fundamental reform is needed. so, i am not quite sure what she means by a change of direction. if there was no need for a review, then i think that the green paper that we issued would have received far fewer than the 500 responses that came in. it would seem to indicate that a green paper that has over 500 responses indicates interest in a review which has taken place. in answer to the first question, i can’t submit an assessment to this parliament until it has been undertaken. the commission has not yet made its assessment; it has not yet decided on its response. it had a plenary discussion today and will make its views known when it submits its proposals to the member states and, at the same time, they will be made known to parliament, and that will be some time in the second half of november which is not very far away. as for politicisation – politicisation of these issues is almost inevitable. when you have european industry now representing different views and competing interests and, frankly, making very different rival submissions as to whether they want trade defence measures adopted, that is bound to be reflected in the positions of our member states. if the member states chose instead simply to take at face value the objective and rigorous analysis of the commission’s services and to adopt the conclusions and the measures we propose; if they were prepared simply to do that, then the politicisation wouldn’t arise. however, the member states are subject to the same lobbying and different competing interests, amongst producers, retailers, distributors, importers and consumers, as we are. when people have different views, those views have to be debated very broadly in a political way, through a political process, and that is what happens.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on food price increases and consumer protection by joseph daul, lutz goepel and neil parish on behalf of the ppe-de political group (o-0065/2007 - b6-0321/2007), the oral question to the commission on food price increases and consumer protection by luis manuel capoulas santos on behalf of the pse political group (o-0067/2007 - b6-0377/2007), and the oral question to the commission on food price increases and consumer protection by sergio berlato, janusz wojciechowski, gintar didžiakas, liam didokas on behalf of the uen political group (o-0069/2007 - b6-0378/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. recently, the european union has seen a significant rise in the prices of basic foodstuffs, particularly in the new member states. in poland, for example, the price of bread has increased by 15 percent in the past two years, apples by 83 percent, potatoes by 33 percent, and milk by almost two times. the same is true in some of the old member states: italy, ireland. the price of cereals, milk, fruit and vegetables in lithuania, one of the new member states, also almost doubled. on the other hand, the european union's policy of limiting agricultural production seems increasingly at odds with consumer needs. all the so-called reforms of the common agricultural policy, are that we limit production in the european union. the sugar reform is a big reduction in sugar production in the european union, from 18 million tons to 12 million tons. reform of the wine market - also production curtailment. other reforms also aim to produce less in the european union. on the other hand, we have a very important signal. consumers need more food in europe and this is a signal so serious that the whole purpose of the common agricultural policy should be reviewed. we must consider whether the method of limiting production, of quoting production, is really good from the point of view of the interests of consumers, first of all, because it is mainly about them. the point is that europe should provide as much food as its people need. there are many signs that the current agricultural policy should be revised. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! many of my predecessors are happy that food prices are going up, but the question is, will the price of food reach the farmer? i have very serious concerns here. many small farms are being closed down in line with the policy of the commission and the european union. but there is also the question of what food farmers get. they get beef from brazil, sugar from south america, questionable chickens from asia, and in this way cheap food is entering our market, which is driving down our prices, and in fact production is being reduced in europe. the question here is, do we still have to bow to the industrial lobby? why don't we start supporting european farmers again, at a time when there is a need to increase production and increase the quantities of milk and starch that poland and other eastern european countries are still demanding.
member of the commission. mr president, i will try to respond to some of the questions raised. first of all, i agree with those who say that it is nice and very satisfactory to see that the market is now working, that the reforms we have been making are working. that was the whole idea behind all the work done to reform our agricultural sector, so now the farmers can actually respond to the market, and that – from the farmer point of view – is what we really want to do. it is also important to realise that this increase in prices is not a european phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon – and that is the reason why it is very difficult for us to take certain measures. i would just like to respond to the idea of introducing export refunds. i think it could send the wrong signal to the sector to continue production and thereby prolong the pain to the point where we see an increase in prices – here i am talking specifically about the pigmeat sector. but there will be pressure on prices as long as we have overproduction compared to demand. we see that prices are going down on carcases; we know that it is part of the cycle and we know as well that in autumn there is always pressure on pigmeat prices. let me just mention biofuels, which, under the mandatory targets that the commission presented on 10 january 2007, will represent 10% of our fuel transport sector by 2020. we never intended that this would be exclusively european production: we will need imports. however, it is very important that we start on the first generation and thereby encourage our research institutions to try to find the golden solution for the second generation that will not be produced exclusively or mainly on cereals but on straw, woodchips and residues from slaughterhouses. we therefore have potential, and we estimate that, by 2020, between 20% and 30% will be coming from the second generation, and we might be able to do better if we push the research investments. concerning gmos, i can fully assure you that the commission is aware of the problem posed by asynchronous authorisation. you can see the consequences in the directorate general for agriculture’s recently published report – which you can find on the internet – where there are three different scenarios. the commission is currently reflecting on the best way to address this situation without any compromise on our high level of risk assessment, with regard to both the environment and human health. important improvements have already been made in reducing the procedure or the time line – the time necessary – for authorising gmos. i would like to mention, just as an example, the recent commitment by the european food safety authority to perform the completeness check within six weeks, compared with a much longer period previously. i also expect that stronger support from the member states will help the commission in further shortening the time line of the authorising process. steps in this direction have been taken to increase member states’ support in the authorising process. i am strongly committed to workable implementation of our rules to ensure that trade in animal feed is not disrupted, with clearly negative consequences for our farmers. but i am also committed to ensuring the highest level of safety when it comes to placing new gm products on the market, and of course our trading partners know the specific rules that we have within the european union. just two days ago i came back from argentina and brazil. they told me clearly that they will be able to deliver non-gm products, soybean and maize mainly, and the types of gm products that have been authorised in europe. but they said that we have to be aware that this is more costly. if we are prepared to pay the price they will deliver but we have to remember that they have other customers out there, and here they mentioned china as a big customer. so i am quite sure that we will come back to this issue. i feel certain that we will before too long.
i have received six motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2007.
the next item is the report by mr karel-heinz florenza, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the green paper: towards a europe free of tobacco smoke: alternative policy options at eu level [2007/2105 (ini) ] (a6-0336/2007).
mr. chairman, please! statistics show that in europe, about 30% of the population still reach for a cigarette every day. i agree wholeheartedly that non-smokers should be protected from the negative effects of inhaling nicotine smoke. i cannot, however, agree with the jacobin methods proposed in the resolution. we cannot create a repressive policy towards smokers, restricting their civil liberties. i think we should focus on broad public education, regulate retail prices by raising taxes, because scientific research shows that this is an effective weapon in the fight against tobacco addiction. the point that smoking should be banned in the workplace is uncontroversial. however, i think it should be extended to include a provision that ensures that each unit should provide employees with a space within which they can smoke without harming others. and in this day and age, creating a space like this doesn't have to be just a hollow, pointless manifestation of health promotion, but it has to be an effective action. i would like to take the opportunity to mention another problem that has its roots in the anti-smoking policies of many governments, namely the increase in the smuggling of counterfeit tobacco products, the main attraction of which is that they are cheaper than the original product. it is now one of the most lucrative sources of income for smugglers. remember, these products are sold in our stores, to our citizens. a seller who has taken up the sale of such a product will not hesitate to sell to a minor. so when we make policy on tobacco, we have to look at the problem from many perspectives. so that the legal reality we create is effective in helping to solve the problems associated with the use of nicotine products.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it so happens that 14 years ago in the polish parliament i was dealing with the protection of intellectual property rights, i was the chairman of a special subcommittee. i have the honour to do so in our european parliament today. i wanted to emphasise, as my predecessors did, the significant progress we have made in the last few months and i wanted to emphasise that the european parliament has made a significant contribution, in our view, to improving what the european commission has proposed. i am convinced that the compromise solution we are proposing will help to increase the availability of pharmaceutical products in the so-called third world countries, because that is what is at stake.
mr. chairman, please! and in the halfway point, it turns out that of all the millennium development goals, we've done the least good at fighting tb, hiv, malaria. statistics from the world health organization show that in 2005, more than 1.5 million people died of tuberculosis, which was the leading cause of death in europe before world war ii. 27,000 people die every day because they don't have access to basic medicine. health is an essential condition for prosperity and economic development, and i think it's our moral duty to help the less developed countries in this area. the positive step is to support the protocol that amends the trips agreement to facilitate access to medicines. it's not a complete solution, but we can't afford to take risks to protect millions of lives. and there are risks. first, licensing the production of generics for export to countries in need is subject to a number of conditions that may discourage such activity. second, the production of such drugs can create conditions for abuse by both beneficiaries and exporters themselves, and the infrastructure in poor countries is so poor that production is often impossible. so we need some additional multi-layered supporting instruments. the most important, i believe, is financial support for the creation of local production centres, technology transfer, investment in development and innovation. we are committed to social solidarity with these countries, but we must develop it in a way that maximises the effectiveness of the aid we provide, while protecting our own market. i would like to conclude by saying, commissioner, that there is a lot of room for ideas here before the commission and before you, as head of the special committee.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the establishment of a framework for lifelong learning qualifications is essential for the present and future of europe. preparation for life and work is essential to personal and social fulfilment. historical and contemporary circumstances require that special attention be paid to people aged 50 and over and young people from families experiencing economic difficulties, especially in the new member states. not everyone can and should go abroad to look for work. we need to create conditions for people to thrive in their environment, in their place of residence. national qualifications frameworks should be an instrument for classifying qualifications according to criteria established for specific, achievable levels of teaching. the european union should support the efforts of the member states both legally and economically. the union should ensure that citizens not only have the freedom to move, but also the recognition of their professional qualifications.
mr. chairman, please! transparency and comparability of qualifications acquired in different circumstances, systems and countries facilitates the assessment of knowledge levels by both workers and employers, increasing labour market mobility. this applies to both regulated professions - doctors, nurses, other medical professions where these qualifications are mutually recognised by the eu countries - and other professions. the introduction of a qualification framework will contribute to greater social cohesion. but the university and the artistic profession should be treated differently, where talent and talent should not be restricted by rigidity, nor mediated, where the lecturer is not objectified, but still plays the role of master. i congratulate the rapporteur.
on behalf of the uen group. the decision yesterday by the presidents of the ppe-de and the european socialists not to adopt a resolution before the eu-russia summit shows that we still have a problem with russia. this is a big mistake. this is not the kind of franco-german engine we expect in our part of europe. our resolution of 2 may, which preceded the samara summit, was very helpful. i hope that our silence today does not mean that we are trying to back away from a clearly defined, demanding policy towards russia. if the samara line is challenged, russia will be strengthened in the belief that integration, and especially the 2004 enlargement, are facts that can be ignored or dismissed. politicians who today, in the name of pseudo-realism, try to close their eyes to russia's move towards dictatorship, are in agreement with the finnishisation, the discrimination of central europe and, consequently, the weakening of the european union as a global partner.
mr president of the council, commissioner! i think in the debate about russia's relationship with the european union, it's important to ask ourselves: what does russia want in relation to the european union? what does the european union expect from russia? one russian politician said that russia must now focus on a containment policy. if russia practices this policy of containment, it will be a kind of return to the cold war. you also have to realize what it's supposed to stop? to stop the wind of freedom blowing from the european union? this is a serious problem. the european union, on the other hand, says it wants a strategic partnership with russia. this is a very important task and it must be said that the rule of law is a necessary condition for establishing certain partnerships with russia. the rule of law means the independence of the judiciary. that means freedom of the press and freedom of speech, economic freedom. it also means that businessmen are not put in jail, and the rule of law in the field of international law, which means unfreezing conflicts in the caucasus and moldova and putting the kosovo issue in the international community's mind.
madam president! the union-russia summit comes at a very important moment in russian history - the end of the era of vladimir putin. but is it really over? the presidential elections in the russian federation will not bring any change, power will remain in the hands of the same man who this time will be the prime minister. one of the deputies is to be the alleged murderer of alexander litvinenko andrei lugovoi, who will thus gain immunity. the russian authorities are therefore openly protecting a man who is suspected of having committed a serious crime in the european union. they are sending a clear signal that where the interests of the kremlin are concerned, all law and respect for the states of the union ends. after the elections, nothing will change chechens will continue to be exterminated, the press will be muzzled, the rich deposits of natural resources will allow the kremlin to continue to pursue a brutal foreign policy. i would like the representatives of the european union to bear this in mind when they talk to the russian delegation, as well as the fact that talks are not of any value in themselves, they will only become such when they lead to real changes in the russian federation.
madam president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, i would like to underline the importance of the strategic partnership between the european union and russia and express my warm feelings to the people of the russian federation, to all the peoples of russia, and my appreciation for the pace of economic development and the progress made in overcoming the social crisis. but a true strategic partnership requires seriousness and sincerity in the relationship. the european union is concerned about the emergence of a new power structure around president putin, which threatens to permanently weaken liberal democracy in russia itself and to encourage neo-imperialist temptations in russian foreign policy. amnesty international has drawn attention to human rights violations in russia in a report prepared for the eu-russia summit. the report cites human rights violations by state authorities in the north caucasus, especially in chechnya and ingushetia, as a deterioration in the situation of freedom of expression and association, the killing of journalists and the rise of racist violence. the portuguese presidency should raise the issues raised by amnesty international at the mapra summit on 26 october this year. russian civil society, journalists and human rights activists must see the european union as a guarantor of rights, an ally of a democratic, liberal and open russia.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a recommendation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of a european qualifications framework for lifelong learning. the future development of european society is increasingly dependent on education, research, innovation and technology. this is why it is so important to support the promotion of mobility in the eu labour market. i am convinced that the establishment of a european qualifications framework will facilitate access to the european labour market. in his report, the rapporteur, mario mantovani, points out that from 2012 all certificates of qualification, diplomas and europass documents should refer to the appropriate level of the eqf. the european qualifications framework used should be such as to allow for the comparison of levels of qualifications. it is essential that member states are supported in the application of the eqf, in particular through the exchange of good practices. the etuc advisory group mentioned in the report can ensure the consistency of the cooperation process and its monitoring
in writing. it is good that the european parliament has adopted a new directive on the production and use of pesticides. for the sake of the citizens of the european union, and above all for their health and lives, it makes the conditions for the marketing of chemicals used in the production of plant protection products more stringent. it also specifies cases where aerial spraying is permitted, recommends reducing the use of pesticides and calls for priority to be given to non-chemical agents. the report by mrs belohorskaya should have been supported, given the wide but modern range of regulations. there is no doubt that european union citizens no longer want to be in widespread contact with toxins, eat poisoned products, or be exposed to carcinogens, toxic substances or endocrine disruptors. in line with the clear expectations of the european community, it was also necessary to support the ban on the use of pesticides in urban and rural public spaces. public parks and gardens, sports and recreation grounds, school grounds and playgrounds, and areas around clinics, hospitals, rehabilitation centres, health centres, hospices, etc. should therefore be excluded from their application.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mr herbert reul on conventional energy sources and energy technologies. the report deals with a very important and topical issue which we must bring to the european union for a general debate - we need a unified strategy and a common energy policy. the commission's proposal to present a 'strategic energy technology plan' at the spring european council is welcomed as a priority issue in ensuring europe's energy security. the european union, as a world leader, must also set the right direction for the development of modern energy technologies, while respecting all economic and environmental standards.
madam president! i would like to justify my vote on the report by mr florenz, on the fight against the real scourge of nicotine addiction. i would like to emphasize that i voted for this report, even though i am in favour of freedom for smokers, even though i am of course in favour of pluralism. nevertheless, the problem of the harmfulness of so-called passive smoking, that is, the presence of non-smokers in the company of smokers, is a dramatic one. i can only remind you that 650,000 people die every year from smoking, and that includes 80,000 secondhand smokers, including children. and it's for this reason that we should, in a sense, limit other people's freedoms so that there are no deaths.
madam president! during this session we discussed the substantial restriction of the right to smoke introduced by mr florenz. i voted against this report because i think that the limitation can only apply to cases where smoking harms other people. but we can't stop people from hurting themselves when they want to hurt themselves. this is an invasion of the rights of the individual over and above the powers of any legislator. of course, there is the issue of the cost of treatment, but that is only a matter for those who insure others. if they want to, they can raise rates for smokers for their medical costs. there is also the second issue, the subsidiarity issue, which my predecessors have mentioned and which i fully agree with, of course, is fundamentally wrong, but it can only be dealt with by national authorities and not by the european union.
in writing. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and as a non-smoker who sees in his immediate surroundings the many negative effects of smoking, i welcome the report by karl-heinz florenz 'towards a europe free of tobacco smoke'. it is right that it is the european parliament that is sending a clear and unequivocal message to all eu citizens and member states that we do not want to see people smoking, not in public places, and especially not in restaurants, bars, public transport, and even less so in their workplace. we also want to see more restrictions on the sale of cigarettes to minors. i also believe that, in parallel with the restrictions that are being introduced, a broad information campaign should be undertaken, not just about the harmful effects of smoking. they are generally well known, but also that the right of non-smokers to live in a smoke-free environment cannot be dependent on, let alone limited by, smokers who would like to exercise their 'right to smoke' at the expense of non-smokers. but if our call for a smoke-free europe is to have any effect, then we members should set an example and give up smoking in our workplace, that is, in all the premises of the european parliament.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr florenz, 'towards a europe free of tobacco smoke'. tobacco smoke is a highly harmful substance containing thousands of chemicals, including more than 250 carcinogens and poisons. even the slightest exposure to these substances can contribute to the development of cancer. tobacco smoke particles settle permanently in the air and cause air pollution that cannot be eliminated even by the best ventilation systems. thousands of people die every year in the european union as a result of secondhand smoke - and it can be avoided. every citizen of the european union should be able to live and work in an environment that is smoke-free, and we must pay particular attention to this in relation to public premises and institutions. we must remember that 70% of the eu population are non-smokers, and we must ensure that they can live in a clean and safe environment.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the report on turkish-european union relations because, despite months of negotiations, the resolution omits the question of turkish responsibility for the armenian massacre of 1915. turkey is trying to impose censorship on the international community. the pressure on the u.s. congress was the final proof of this, but it did not budge and took a position. to give in to turkey's unjustified pressure on this issue is a mistake. at the same time, i very much appreciate the inclusion in this resolution of the demands for the protection of the rights of the christian minority in turkey, including the right to the education of priests and the legal personality of ecclesiastical institutions.
mr. chairman, please! the report highlights the changes that have taken place in serbia recently. however, much remains to be done, particularly in the area of government cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. despite promises, radko mladić was not arrested and handed over to the hague tribunal. the lack of progress in this cooperation is worrying and has a negative impact on the perception of the serbian authorities' efforts to strengthen the rule of law. the new constitution and regulations on the protection of human rights and national minorities, reforms of the police, security services, judiciary and army, and attempts to fight corruption are a step forward. however, the reforms also contain shortcomings, such as the failure to establish a constitutional court, which would have been a guarantee of democracy. it is necessary to monitor the arrangements and commitments undertaken by serbia. this country, despite some progress, has a long way to go.
mr. chairman, please! for many years i have been observing the negative attitude of some european countries towards serbia. the country sees itself as a state implementing russia's policy in the balkans. yet another aspect is still less visible. serbia is on one of the main routes of islamic expansion in europe. i am personally in favour of the best possible relations with turkey and other muslim countries, but it is not in europe's interest to continue to humiliate a christian country at the expense of islamic countries. in the future, this could have far-reaching consequences for our continent. this region needs stability, not the incitement of ethnic and religious tensions. everyone is happy about the progressive democratization of political life in serbia. relations with this country must be maintained in a manner that respects the pride and tradition of the nation. only then will it turn towards the union more than towards other powers, and at the same time stabilize the region.
mr president, serbia is a european country which has made a great deal of progress in the last few years towards integration with the european union. of course, we can raise various problems, which in this country are perhaps not as big as in albania or bosnia and herzegovina, which we seem to look at with a more sympathetic eye. i believe that we need to create a system of incentives for serbia to pursue european standards even more intensively, but we must always show that this is the place to be, the european union. if mr gahler is talking about russian-serbian relations, then yes. we just have to tell serbia very clearly that its place is in the european union, and it will be easier for us to work with it when it's inside than when it's outside, which is obvious to me.
acting president of the council. madam president, commissioner, members and rapporteur, europe, africa and the world have changed a great deal in the last decade. europe is now a bloc of 27 member states with a confluence of sometimes very different foreign policy priorities and approaches. although it is not fair, in view of the volume of official development aid that europe provides for the african continent, to say that this continent has been neglected, it can, in our view, be said that there is a strategic gap in the relationship between europe and africa. in recent years the negative consequences of this vacuum have become more evident. the european union and its member states now understand the need to take relations with africa to a new level and the second eu-africa summit is the right moment to make that will clear. several reasons justify this new approach of recognising the importance of relations between the european union and africa: the widespread perception that the set of global challenges, such as peace and security or international trade, require concerted action by the international community and thus justify the emergence of new forms of cooperation; the search for answers to problems affecting both europe and africa, in particular the effects of climate change; the management of energy resources or migratory flows; africa's willingness to tackle common problems collectively and the need to adapt to changing geopolitical circumstances in the international context. the concrete expression of a new relationship between the union and africa is to be found in the documents which we hope will be adopted at the december summit: the joint strategy between the european union and africa, its first action plan and, we hope, the lisbon declaration. these documents reflect the specific nature of europe's relationship with africa, an approach which, on the one hand, favours multilateral channels and, on the other, seeks to address the various aspects of our relationship in an integrated manner. this approach is the difference the union can make, especially in comparison with other international actors. the treatment of africa as a strategic global partner is also reflected in the method used for preparing both the summit and the documents to be adopted. while the european union strategy for africa, adopted in 2005, is a union document that only binds the union, the strategy - for the first time a joint strategy - and the action plan are the result of joint work with the african side. the summit documents have been prepared by a joint group of experts since the beginning and we hope that they will be endorsed at the eu-africa ministerial troika meeting on 31 october, in a process in which non-state actors and civil society, both african and european, have been equally involved. the joint strategy and the first action plan are therefore the result of joint work, the present stage of drafting of which reflects and responds to many of the concerns and suggestions contained in the maria martens report, a report which is undoubtedly very complete and very comprehensive. it is emphasised that the partnerships between the european union and africa identified in both the joint strategy and the draft action plan address issues of common interest and are based on the fundamental criteria of adding value to existing cooperation and political dialogue and, in our view, having a positive impact on the daily lives of european and african citizens. the partnerships we want to build also seek to reflect a balance between the commitments made by both sides which will change the unilateral and aid-oriented logic of the relationship between the union and the acp. experience has also shown that political commitments require implementation and follow-up mechanisms to translate into more than just good intentions. between summits, in parallel with the regular meetings between the two committees and the ministerial troika, there is now the possibility of complementarity by sectoral ministerial meetings where appropriate. however, a real change in the relationship between the union and africa can only occur if there is also an effective ownership of the process by a number of other actors. in this regard, we want to establish joint informal expert groups for the implementation of each of the partnerships, open to the participation of a wide range of stakeholders: european and african parliaments, local authorities, african and european civil society, african sub-regional organisations, research institutions, specialised international organisations and institutions and the private sector. at the same time, efforts will be made to deepen cooperation and dialogue between the pan-african parliament and the pan-african parliament, also as channels for the implementation of the joint strategy and the action plan. although profound changes do not occur overnight, we are witnessing a moment of transformation in the relations between the two continents. the challenge is to be able to seize this opportunity and start implementing this new strategic vision for the euro-african dialogue. it is with this aim in mind that we are going to hold, with confidence and with the awareness that we are going to do what must be done, the next eu-africa summit in lisbon in december.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate and thank mrs martens for her excellent report, which raises a number of problems and opens up a number of avenues, and which, in any case, allows us to draw inspiration from this parliamentary contribution to a subject which is extremely important and which calls for a new approach, namely relations between europe and africa. as you all know, 2007 is going to be a special year for the future of relations between europe and africa. five years after the postponement of the lisbon summit in 2003, and no less than seven years after the first europe-africa summit in cairo in 2000, it seems to me that there is an urgent need to redefine these relations on a new basis. africa has changed profoundly in recent years, africa has acquired a continental institutional architecture. in many ways, this architecture is similar to ours. this new institution, the african union, needs to be strengthened and consolidated. it has developed ambitious continental policies in key areas such as socio-economic development, peace and security, but also good governance, and all of these elements are obviously worthy of both our support and our attention. africa now has an undeniable international dimension. i am thinking of the diversification of its relations with the international community, to which mrs martens referred. i am thinking of china's new role, for example, and its influence on investment in this continent. i also think, of course, of the global challenges that africa faces, like all other global actors, climate change, energy, reform of multilateral institutions, risks related to pandemics, migration, and it is obvious that africa must make its voice heard, must weigh in with its influence and above all must assert its rights. and all of these global challenges that i've just listed are ultimately our own. it is a set of challenges and issues which we share and which, moreover, fully highlight the interdependence in which europe and africa find themselves. our fates are bound together. a common strategy of a more political nature can make a difference not only for africa but also for europe, and i do not hesitate to say, for the world. it is therefore urgent for the two continents to have a new framework and new tools to bring the europe-africa dialogue back to the highest level. the joint europe-africa strategy, which we have drawn up in recent months with our african partners, must provide us with this framework, but it is not a question of turning our backs on a traditional relationship of solidarity, it is above all a question of making a qualitative leap which will bring the europe-africa relationship into a new era, an era in which partners are equal in rights and duties. these are the concerns which are very well reflected in this report and i can only support the important innovations which the european parliament suggests for monitoring and accompanying the implementation of this strategy and the action plans which will follow. in this connection, the establishment of a joint european parliament/pan-african parliament delegation seems to me to be a key point in perfecting the institutional architecture that is about to be set up. i would add to this the regular meetings to be arranged between the presidents of these two institutions, the joint organisation of hearings and the preparation, also jointly, of political reports on progress made. all this would be essential to maintain the momentum of the process over time and to give it the necessary political vitality. we are aware that this approach also requires strong institutions on the part of the african union that are able to act and interact with ours. that is why we will of course continue to support the african union in its transformation and institutional strengthening. as the first concrete confirmation of this commitment, i am pleased to announce that the first work programme presented by the pan-african parliament will be funded by eur 275 000 from the ongoing institutional strengthening programme financed by the ninth european development fund. this was a concern which was expressed to me by president borrell in particular. i hope that this first funding will enable the pan-african parliament to fully participate in your initiative to organise a joint parliamentary event in the run-up to the lisbon summit in december so that the results of your work can be presented to heads of state at that summit. finally, as i have said on several occasions, the involvement and ownership of civil societies from both our continents and their representative assemblies is also an essential dimension for the success of effective dialogue and cooperation between europe and africa. we tend to forget this sometimes, but we are talking about the common destiny of 1.5 billion human beings who remain the first and main actors in the implementation of this partnership. i am of course in full agreement with the need for coordination, mrs martens. that's why we've put forward a code of conduct that should lead to a better division of labour between the different donors, a harmonisation. i think we are consistent because you know that in the tenth european development fund we have provided a special envelope for governance, which is one of the aspects, obviously also very important, of the political dialogue we will have with our african friends. as regards the epa, i have no doubt that i shall have to answer these questions as a result of your speeches. so i will reserve my answer for the time of the speeches so that i do not go too far in my speech, so that i do not take too much time. the last point, which the president-in-office of the council has emphasized very well, is that the importance of the europe-africa summit is not to be demonstrated. now is the time for this summit to take place because the momentum is actually to change the focus. it is, in a way, changing the nature of the relationship between the two continents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that seems to me obviously much more important. so, of course, i will come back to a number of subjects when you ask me more specific questions.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. mrs martens has produced an excellent report which has been unanimously adopted by the committee on development. for the first time in history, africa and europe are slowly coming together with a shared and partner-like vision of developing democracy, fostering development and strengthening peace and security on the african continent. i hope, as do the representatives of the council and the commission, that this report will be a good inspiration ahead of the lisbon summit. many of the provisions of the report, or rather their implementation, will be crucial to the development of european-african relations. it will be difficult to make progress in relations between the two countries without increasing the coherence of the various eu policies - trade, development, environment, agriculture and migration. it is also important to fulfil decisions and commitments made in the past. the council of the european union decided in 2005 that at least 50% of the additional development aid would be directed to african countries. in my own country, poland, development aid has increased very significantly in recent years. the problem, however, is that last year only 1.4% of all polish bilateral aid went to sub-saharan africa. the commission has also received comments from the member states on the progress made in the ratification of the revised cotonou agreement and the internal agreement on 10 edf. the fact is that today only half of the eu countries have ratified the revised acp partnership agreement, which is due to enter into force on 1 january 2008. if ratification does not take place, it will be very difficult to continue programmes for africa and the vision of specific support for africa will simply become a pure fiction. i therefore encourage members of the european parliament to put pressure on their governments and national parliaments to ratify the revised cotonou agreement.
despite the hundreds of billions of euros that have been given to africa, the situation of poverty is getting worse, as mrs martens's report shows. without consulting the representative of the portuguese presidency, mr lobo manuel antunes, or my colleague mr johan van hecke, i will say that for financial aid to be effective, cooperation with local actors in africa is essential. the economy needs help in introducing technology, stimulating entrepreneurship, involving citizens, supporting individual initiative. the missionaries do it without money, for example, and the union with large financial resources does not. one of the main things is education, and investing in human capital, because it's going to pay off. but africa also has its obligations, namely: stopping arms imports, legal regulations, including property rights, without which the economy cannot develop, and lastly, governments must be understood as serving their citizens, not as the beneficiaries of our aid, as symbolized by the large mercedes cars of the african authorities.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to thank mr marco cappato for the preparation of this report. a very difficult report that attempts to tackle one of the most difficult problems in the modern world. opium production in afghanistan is increasing year by year. according to the last annual report, opium production has reached twice the level of two years ago. afghanistan has become virtually the sole supplier of the world's deadliest drug, supplying 93% of the world's opiate production. the president is one of those who believe that the fate of afghanistan is our common cause. the heroic struggle of the afghan people during the cold war contributed to the expansion of the sphere of freedom in the modern world, to the fall of the iron curtain in europe. today, the european union is obliged to provide military, administrative and economic aid to that country. this also applies to assistance to combat drug production in afghanistan. remember, the incentive for afghan farmers to produce opiates is primarily financial gain. the european aid programme for this problem must take this into account. i would therefore like to congratulate mr carppato, in particular, on his courage in proposing the measures which are set out in this report and which could lead to an improvement in this respect. one of these proposals is to offer assistance in the implementation of a scientific pilot project 'pickle as a medicine' which will allow further exploration of how licensing can contribute to poverty reduction, diversification of the rural economy, overall development and increased security. in short, it is not a matter of moralizing, but of actually allowing the european union to make an effective contribution to the solution of the problem in afghanistan.
madam president! first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner ferrero-waldner on the excellent concert of the altenburg boys choir, which we just heard together. i'm impressed with you. i shall now turn to less pleasant matters, namely the cappato report. my esteemed predecessors have insisted on the 40% gdp figure, because that much of afghanistan's gdp is supposedly coming from drug production. that figure was accepted, but i wanted to emphasize that a year ago in the foreign affairs committee of our parliament our representatives in afghanistan stated unequivocally that it is over 50% of gdp. that number is even higher. i don't want to make this argument: at least 10% of afghanistan's population lives off of drug production and trafficking. there are also, there is nothing to hide, international troops involved in this trade, as well as american troops stationed there. i consider this a risky proposition, although i also see certain advantages. but i believe deep down that this proposal could actually lead to the legalization of not so much medical care, but drug trafficking.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. i would like to express my support for the european parliament's draft recommendation to the council on the production of opium for medical purposes in afghanistan and congratulate the rapporteur on her courage. the fight against illicit drug trafficking is one of the most important global problems of the modern world. the european community should direct its action so as to effectively pursue, on the one hand, drug control and the reduction of the world supply of opium and, on the other hand, the increase in the availability and the reduction of the price of painkillers. the report's proposal to legalise opium cultivation for the international pharmaceutical industry seems to be a way of achieving these objectives. following the example of turkey and australia, afghanistan could also license the cultivation of poppy used to produce useful painkillers such as morphine and codeine. however, in order to allow such licensing of poppy cultivation, the specific conditions prevailing there should be taken into account. afghanistan is the largest opiate-producing facility in the world. the opium industry and trade in afghanistan has become a major contributor to gdp growth, a mainstay of cross-border trade, a major source of livelihood for farmers and the only way to access land, jobs, credit for the majority of the population. legalizing poppy production in afghanistan will make sense if we create the right conditions. it is therefore necessary to improve the security situation, to stabilise the political situation of the state, to ensure effective democratisation and the introduction of state credit for agriculture, as well as to regulate the forms of economic activity in order to ensure effective state control over the opium production process.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. a clear shortcoming of the current provisions on the law of enforcement is that the enforcement of a judicial order, once it has been declared enforceable in another member state, remains the exclusive domain of national law. under existing community legislation, it is not possible to obtain a freezing order that is enforceable throughout the european union. therefore, the establishment of a european account seizure order system, enabling the creditor to secure the amount due or the value of the claim by preventing the withdrawal or transfer of funds deposited in one or more bank accounts within the territory of the european union, seems to be a very appropriate and necessary solution. this system should be established by developing an additional, autonomous procedure which would run in parallel to national rules, subject to its being applicable only to cases of a cross-border nature. it should be noted that the order would have only a protective effect, i.e. it would result in the debtor's funds being blocked in the bank account without being transferred to the creditor's account. the court should certainly refrain from hearing or notifying the debtor before the seizure of his bank accounts is carried out, as this could have the opposite effect. the amount to be attached should be based on the amount of the claim lodged by the creditor, but it should be stressed that the debtor should have the right to appeal against the order issued and the competent authority for such an appeal should be the court which issued the order. at the same time, the criteria for determining the exemptions from enforcement should be set out in such a way as to enable the debtor to meet the basic needs of himself and his family. of course, further comparative analysis is needed at this stage, as many elements require further examination, but this does not change the fact that the introduction of a community legal procedure, such as a european account seizure order, aimed at facilitating and effective enforcement of monetary claims, would undoubtedly be a breakthrough in the shaping of the european judicial and economic area. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate mr lechner on his excellent, well-written report. we know very well how difficult it is to change community legislation, especially in this area.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the green paper on improving the efficiency of judicial enforcement in the european union is the next step in the development of the european area of justice. i agree with the rapporteur's position in this report and support the introduction in the european union of a fast and efficient procedure for obtaining a bank account freezing order. in the context of the growing integration of the euro payments market, such a legal regulation seems both particularly necessary and reasonable. in view of the many risks involved in the pursuit of claims, i believe that the european union should introduce an autonomous additional procedure that would run parallel to national rules. it should apply only to cross-border cases and only to funds held in bank accounts and not to other assets. it is only a temporary security for the creditor's claims and not a final satisfaction. unjustified seizure can have serious consequences for the debtor, and can also have a negative impact on trust in the european legal order. i therefore believe that particular attention should be paid to the protection of the debtor, for example in the form of the lodging of a security by the creditor, the right to object, the limitation of the amount of enforcement or, finally, the obligation of the creditor to lodge a request for the opening of main proceedings within a specified period.
madam president! enforcement law is often referred to as the achilles' heel of european civil justice. no legislative proposal has been submitted so far on the actual means of enforcing judgments and the enforcement of a judicial order after its enforceability has been established in another member state remains the exclusive domain of national law. the current diversity of enforcement rules in the various member states of the european union makes it significantly more difficult to recover debts abroad. creditors seeking to enforce the order in another country face unfamiliar legal systems, procedural requirements and a language barrier that causes additional costs and delays in the enforcement procedure. the problems of debt collection in foreign countries constitute an obstacle to the free movement of payment orders within the union and to the proper functioning of the internal market. late and unrealised payments threaten the interests of both businesses and consumers. the commission's proposal to introduce a single european legal act, which would be autonomous and parallel to national legislation, therefore seems necessary, if not necessary. the legal basis for this document may be article 65 (c) of the treaty establishing the european community. therefore, in line with the green paper, a creditor should also be able to apply for a preservation order before the opening of the main proceedings. however, given the ad hoc nature of the procedure, the creditor should be required to demonstrate the existence of his claim and the urgency of the attachment order. unjustified occupation can have very serious consequences for the debtor, even depriving him of the basis for his existence. the debtor's right to object and the amount of the enforcement order are also important. it does not seem to be a good idea to set a uniform limit on the amount exempted from enforcement at the level of the european union. this decision should be left to the legislation of the debtor's country. in the case of service of preservation order on bank accounts, it is important to ensure that uniform standards are established in the european union for communication between courts and banks. it seems necessary to regulate the problem of debt recovery abroad by adopting a relevant legal act. however, it is also necessary to carry out a thorough analysis of the regulations already in force in the various community countries and to consider the effectiveness of alternatives to european rules. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lechner, on a very well-prepared and balanced report.
madam president! the problem of the effective enforcement of monetary claims within the european union is of great importance for the proper functioning of the internal market. community action in this area should be considered. one of the most interesting sayings i've heard in my law practice is, "when you do a favor for someone, you become their debtor". sometimes it's true. late and unrealised payments threaten the interests of both businesses and consumers. the differences in the efficiency of debt collection that we currently see in the european union can distort competition among firms operating beyond the territory of a member state. enforcement systems vary from country to country. in some cases, they're effective, in others, they're less so. at present, we can see that debtors have the possibility to transfer funds almost immediately from accounts known to the creditor to other accounts in the same or another member state. this makes it impossible for creditors to block these funds. in addition, creditors seeking enforcement in another member state face unfamiliar legal systems and procedural requirements. the language barrier and the cost of the proceedings are also important. i therefore believe that the proposal to create a european system for the seizure of bank accounts should be welcomed. given the increasing integration of the euro payments business, such a legal regulation seems necessary and reasonable. i congratulate mr lechner on this report and i think it will be a very important legal event for the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. the european union is not just a common economic area. the european dimension must now be understood in the light of the idea of intensive political and legal integration of the union. the union is an example of a political organisation that brings together the interests of individual member states within an emerging cosmopolitan legal system. although some of the criminal law provisions of the member states are still in the preliminary phase of harmonisation, it is gratifying that relations between member states are characterised by mutual trust in the legal systems of other member states, which facilitates cooperation and allows the recognition by the executing state of the decision taken by the authorities of the issuing state. it is worth noting that the humanization of criminal law is penetrating the european legal system, which is based on the fundamental value of human beings. european policy should be coherent in all its dimensions with regard to the establishment and enforcement of sentences and the general relationship between convicted persons and society. facilitating the application of alternative sanctions serves to promote a humane approach to criminal law and sentencing and thus to promote european law. particular account shall be taken of the rights and possibilities of the sentenced person to return to society. the possibility of a wider application of alternative penalties to imprisonment should therefore be considered. let us remember that by world standards, the status of a convicted person is the basis for determining the degree of civilization of the quality of the justice system of any political community. the framework decisions on enhanced cooperation in criminal matters submitted today should therefore be supported, as the progressive harmonisation of the criminal law of the member states is a fundamental prerequisite for the creation of a european area of freedom, security and justice.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. thank you, mrs. sbarbati, for your work. i commend the work of the european ombudsman, professor nikiforos diamanduros. i am hereby expressing the views of the uen and the chairman of the committee on petitions, mr marcin libicki, who, being unable to attend today's sitting, asked me to do so. hominum causa omne ius constitutum sit every law should be applied for the sake of man. this roman principle is reflected in the work of the ombudsman, who, acting in accordance with his mandate, seeks to uphold effectively the fundamental principle that every person has the right to have his or her case heard impartially and fairly by the union's institutions and bodies. the analysis of the report shows that only around 25% of the complaints lodged fall within the ombudsman's remit. don't our citizens know the law? maybe that's true to a certain extent. i think it is different, however, that they see the institution of the ombudsman as a last resort, unable to find adequate help in their own countries. the range and number of petitions received by the committee on petitions also bear witness to this. if the feeling of unfairness, of being lax, incompetent or bureaucratic in the way people are treated is widespread, then the code of good administrative behaviour will be just a wish list, not a practice of everyday activities. professor, please! as ombudsman, may you be an effective guardian of the interests of the citizens of the community, and may parliament, the council and the commission, and the national parliaments and national ombudsmen, help you to do so.
madam president! i represent poland, a country that ranks fifth in the statistics on the number of complaints to the european ombudsman. one in every 16 complaints to the ombudsman comes from my country. almost every twentieth is written in polish. i am speaking of course of absolute figures, because on a per capita basis, the number of complaints lodged by people in luxembourg, malta and cyprus is much higher than that of my own countrymen. it is worth noting that the european ombudsman received fewer complaints last year than in 2005. just over 200 complaints came from companies and associations, and 18 times as many from individuals. the european ombudsman's work is arguably the best representation of information society in the european union. 12 out of 20 complaints are submitted electronically. the fact that almost four fifths of complaints did not fall under the responsibility of the european ombudsman at all is a major failure, a hallmark of the low awareness of citizens of the union countries. this shows that the institution is treated as a recipe for all sorts of ailments, even those not affecting the eu institutions, which are supposed to be controlled by the european edp. apparently, the europeans think the eu ombudsman is a slap in the face. in conclusion, i am pleased that only 8% of the inquiries opened by the ombudsman concerned the european parliament, whereas 66% concerned the european commission.
madam president! the ombudsman's work gives citizens of the union the feeling that they are protected against the misconduct of the eu institutions. the material presented suggests a few observations. first, the largest number of complaints to the ombudsman concern the european commission, the european personnel selection office and the european parliament. this may be affected by the fact that the european institutions, with the exception of the ombudsman, have not adopted a code of good administrative behaviour in accordance with the european parliament's 2001 resolution. second remark: 78.5% of cases brought to the ombudsman are outside his remit, of which 93.7% do not concern community institutions or bodies. this indicates that citizens are not sufficiently informed about the ombudsman's work or that they are unable to deal with important cases in their own countries for various reasons. this is a subject that needs to be analyzed. third issue: the ombudsman should have the appropriate powers to allow for the prompt removal of maladministration giving rise to complaints. i thank the rapporteurs for their detailed report.
i am pleased that the ombudsman has exercised his function in a balanced and energetic manner, both in examining and dealing with the complaints, which numbered 3830 in 2006, and in conducting and finalising the inquiries. they also welcome the ombudsman's constructive relations with the eu institutions and bodies and his encouragement to citizens to exercise their rights. the debate on this report should stress the importance of providing the necessary budgetary and human resources to ensure that citizens receive prompt and substantive answers to their questions, complaints or petitions. it is clear that all the institutions should cooperate constructively with the ombudsman at all stages of the procedure, and that the ombudsman should present to parliament proposals which he believes will help to streamline procedures and further cooperation. while congratulating professor diamandouros on his achievements as ombudsman, i encourage him to continue his efforts and to promote his work effectively so that he can become, in the eyes of european citizens, a guarantor of the good administration of the community institutions.
madam president, mr. speaker, i have to ask you to stop. first of all, i would like to congratulate the professor on his excellent record and his work for democracy and respect for civil rights in the european union. the ombudsman of the european union is one of the main actors in the democratic life of the union. it should be the guardian of the democratic equality of all european citizens and the mediator in relations between citizens and community public administrations which for various reasons do not meet the established standards. they therefore welcome the information contained in the ombudsman's 2006 activity report, which shows his active participation in the public life of the community and his active cooperation with both the citizens of the union and the administrative bodies of the european union. to increase the effectiveness of the ombudsman's work, consideration should be given to drawing up a list of best administrative practices, including the exemplary or brilliant cases dealt with by the ombudsman in a given year, as well as a list of cases in which the institutions' work was less appropriate. in addition, in order to ensure a strong and full involvement of the ombudsman, the idea that the ombudsman should also conduct investigations under the so-called third pillar, namely police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, including by covering europol's activities, should be supported.
in writing. mrs martens rightly points out that the basis for the development of cooperation between africa and europe should be the development of democracy and a partnership based on mutual respect. it also appropriately reflects the fact that the partners are equal in terms of rights and obligations, but not in terms of the level of integration and the availability and development of financial, technical and human resources. i agree that the common task and the overriding objective of eu-africa cooperation must be the eradication of poverty, and that peace is crucial as the first step towards development. in the spirit of the report, i believe it is important to address the real needs of the african population: ensuring a decent wage for small farmers, increasing local production, ensuring food security and livelihoods, building local and regional markets.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs martens on eu-africa relations. a common strategy for cooperation between the european union and african countries should be established, based on mutual respect and on common, clearly defined principles and values. we need to take the african side into account and focus in particular on development issues and the achievement of the millennium development goals, such as sustainable growth and development, the fight against poverty, and assistance in ensuring access to education and health care.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to explain my vote on mr cappato's report and also why the group for a europe of nations abstained. i voted against it because i think it's a very controversial idea. drugs are a major business in afghanistan and controlling even part of their production for medical purposes seems more than doubtful. that's why i voted against the proposal.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we are talking about iran again. i am a co-author of the resolution on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group. the situation in iran is such an endless story - a human rights situation. the european parliament has been returning to this subject from time to time, highlighting the names of more victims and more clear examples of human rights violations. i have to say with some regret that for some politicians in the european union, for some governments, the double standards are more important, which means that you speak louder about human rights in countries with which you cannot trade, with which you cannot do business. in the case of countries with which we have economic relations, even informally, without saying it, without making money, human rights are talked about in a quieter way, in a whisper. it is very good that the european parliament does not want to talk about iran in whispers. in the joint resolution that we are proposing, which i emphasize above all political divisions, we are listing new, concrete, tragic facts that show the drama that is happening before our eyes in this country. the world's attention is focused on something else - on some attempts to create a nuclear power in this country or on the clearly anti-semitic statements of the president of iran. unfortunately, we do not see any violations of human rights in this country, and it is good that the european parliament is dealing with this today.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the koran, the holy book of islam, is considered by prominent scholars to be the book of love. and what happens in the countries that call themselves islamic countries? they're run by radical extremists. well, the message of hatred is coming from these countries, and it is coming from the outside world, from fellow believers, and from their own citizens. what is happening in modern iran is absolutely unacceptable. we have said many times in this house that radical measures must be taken to prevent human rights violations in iran in all their dimensions. what is particularly terrifying is the way the death penalty is carried out. what an uncivilized, inhuman, totally unacceptable way for any democracy to carry out the death penalty by stoning. the execution of minors, which is prohibited throughout the democratic and civilized world, is still being carried out there despite the promises of the iranian government and parliament. further acts of hatred are directed against any opposition whether it is the smallest, civil, or the largest, organized, both within the country and beyond its borders. the arrest of journalists, the denial of freedom of speech, the prohibition of printing or speaking under pressure, the threat of imprisonment or even the death penalty - these are situations that we cannot accept in any way. all appeals seem to be almost overdue today. we should therefore consider more specific restrictions that would force the iranian government to change its behaviour.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today on tv, there's another report of another attack in pakistan, with several fatalities. it's the never-ending story again. why are we doing this? also on behalf of the european taxpayers. the european union, for example, provides pakistan with significant funds for health care, poverty alleviation and education. so we have a right to be interested in what is happening in this country - partly funded by our voters' money - of course. i would like to draw attention to aspects that have not been discussed here. first of all, the persecution and discrimination of religious minorities in pakistan, i mean christians, but also hindus, sikhs and buddhists. i think it's worth emphasizing this aspect - it's kind of fading away in the shadow of these attacks and tragic victims, but it's something permanent. i would also like to emphasise - it has been mentioned - that there is discrimination against women. there are special hudud decrees that serve this purpose. it also needs to be stigmatized, and i'm glad we're doing it across the board.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: sudan, the largest country in africa by area, was supposed to be a home for all - for the arab north and the black south, for muslims, christians and animists - when it gained independence in 1956. but the civil war that has raged for nearly 50 years has claimed at least 2 million lives. more than 4.5 million people have been forced to flee their homes. in darfur, where conflict erupted in early 2003, some 200,000 people have been killed and nearly 2 million have been displaced. it's the result of brutal fighting, purges and terror. this is the most tragic humanitarian crisis in the world today, because it's caused by hunger and water shortages. so we should be grateful to all those who are making peace on this troubled earth. we should also thank the african union for sending 7,000 peacekeepers to the region. the latest attack on this mission, which took place in haskanita, has been met with strong opposition. at least 10 dead, about 50 missing or abducted. this is a clear violation of existing agreements and a clear violation of united nations resolutions. my condolences to the families of those who have been killed. we should, as the european union, demand that the guilty be punished and that the peace process be restored. the un and au mission will be about 20,000 troops larger, but they must have a chance to neutralize the armed conflict and contribute to stability in this fiery corner of africa. i hope that the decision of the european parliament to award the sakharov prize to the sudanese lawyer mr salih mahmoud osman will help to break the sudanese drama.
the conflict in darfur, which has been ongoing since 2003, is considered the worst humanitarian disaster of the modern era. ethnic cleansing and pogroms resulted in the deaths of 200,000 people and the displacement of 2.5 million. millions of refugees are fearful every day, protected by a mere 7,000 african union peacekeepers, who are themselves increasingly the target of bloody attacks, such as the haskanita attack in september this year. the situation in the region is deteriorating dramatically, with the kidnapping of peaceful humanitarian organizations. in the current situation, it is necessary to launch a joint un-african union mission as soon as possible, which, having already received the consent of the sudanese government, must also have a strong mandate to ensure the full protection of the civilian population. the mission must be equipped with the necessary manpower, equipment and funds. the european union, the un and the african union must make a united effort to restart the darfur peace process by helping to find a just and lasting agreement signed by all parties involved.
mr. chairman, please! recently, valéry giscard d'estaing, former french president and chief architect of the constitutional treaty rejected in referendums in france and the netherlands, said that the lisbon treaty reforming the european union is merely a revised version of the constitutional treaty, from which the reference to the constitution has been deliberately removed. i quote him: "first and foremost, to prevent the threat of any referendums, avoiding the name that evokes the constitution". - end of quote. thus, the citizens of the european union countries learned that the referendum on the reform treaty was a threat to europe, and the authors of this treaty admitted that they were deliberately manipulating and misleading the peoples of europe. this startling statement shows that the referendum on the treaty is necessary, but before it can take place, there needs to be a fair debate, including in parliament. our constituents need to know what this document is really about.
mr. chairman, please! the polish press reported that two polish women's names were missing from a monument in madrid commemorating the victims of the terrorist attack on march 11, 2004. there are no names of danuta teresia szpili and alina maria bryk. their families are outraged. the monument was unveiled eight months ago. it is also reported that the names of immigrants from morocco and romania were omitted. so my question to my spanish colleagues is: has this been corrected? why aren't these names on the memorial? i also ask the president to take an interest in this matter and to intervene.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to raise an issue that has recently affected us all, namely the change from summer to winter time (and in march the opposite will be true). they say it's a big savings in electricity consumption. i think that's not true, because the length of the solar day doesn't change in any way. the energy consumption of street lighting is also not changed, because it is automatically regulated according to the intensity of the light. the electricity consumption of industrial plants does not change. you can only talk about small savings in electricity at home, but you print new timetables, you stop trains, you have disruptions for the elderly, for children too, you have disruptions in computer systems. i would be glad, mr president, if parliament could hear a competent report from the commission on the gains and losses caused by the change in time.
mr. chairman, please! integration into the european union is progressing. as a result of the implementation of the schengen treaty, another group of countries will enter the area where restrictions and border controls have been abolished. we accept it with great pleasure. much of poland's eastern border is also the border of the european union. the implementation of the schengen arrangements imposes additional control systems on poland at this border. i am thinking here of the border with ukraine, a country which, following democratic and economic changes, is becoming an important partner of the union. poland and ukraine share a long history of neighbourliness. today, we need especially close contacts and cooperation between our citizens, our nations. therefore, we must create good conditions and facilities and minimise unnecessary administrative requirements and costs for people crossing the ukrainian-polish border, or rather the ukrainian-eu border. this is not a dividing line, but a line of good neighbourly cooperation. the border will remain only a formal border in the future, when ukraine is integrated into the union - let us hope so.
mr. chairman, please! i was supposed to speak today about the situation in burma, but the information i have received forces me to bring your attention once again to russia. while preparations for the eu-russia summit were underway in mafra, kazan, some 450 miles (720 km) from moscow, was the scene of another episode in the long-running drama of power struggles with the media. this time, the victim was natalia petrovna, a documentary filmmaker who has made documentaries about chechnya and other countries. the perpetrators were ununiformed local police officers. they detained petrov in her home in front of her parents and two small children. during her arrest, she was knocked unconscious, beaten several times and burned with cigarettes. she woke up in the police station, where she was released after a few hours. one of the girls and the journalist's mother were also injured. is this the standard of police action in a democratic state that is a member of the council of europe? are these events that need to be emphasized in this forum to make europe aware of what is really happening in russia?
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. physical activity is undoubtedly an important factor in the life of every human being. it can be said to improve our health and our spirit. according to numerous studies and statistics, the health of citizens in the member states of the union is deteriorating year by year as a result of an increasingly fast-paced lifestyle, which contributes to a reduction in the time spent on sports and leisure. add to this irrational eating habits, such as the introduction of fast food on the daily menu, and you can say that it is a break with a healthy lifestyle. worse, we are responsible for the health of children and adolescents who are increasingly suffering from obesity and coronary heart disease. the lifestyle we're imposing on our kids, driving to school, not doing physical education in school, driving home, home computer, tv, that's not the best lifestyle. it is therefore a time for reflection and for supporting all useful initiatives aimed at creating an active lifestyle. it is time to adopt a resolution on the role of sport in education, with the comments and suggestions made by mr schmitt. it's time to get serious.
madam president! we care about the sustainability of our economy, and we often neglect the need for the sustainability of our children's development, not just their intellectual development, but their physical development as well. schooling is a period of dynamic growth for children and young people, and of rapid biological development and maturation. physical activity, the exercise of various muscle groups, is especially desirable for health during this period. young people spend a lot of time in front of a tv or computer screen. it may promote intellectual development, but it negatively affects physical development. it's generating a curvature of the spine. parallel sports can prevent this. meanwhile, school sports facilities are often not available after school, and young people cannot use them. i support the report.
madam president! i fully support the motion for a resolution and thank the rapporteur for the very good preparation of this text. for me, the thing is clear, in my youth, in the youth of most of the country, school sports, youth sports, involved a much higher percentage of youth. now the number of hours of gymnastics in schools is decreasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not exposed to the risks of drug abuse. sporting activities should be given due prestige. one way to do this is to include sport in the scope of the european credit transfer in vocational training. the mutual recognition of diplomas and licences for the provision of services in the sports sector throughout the european union will certainly help to guarantee the free movement of students, athletes and workers in europe and improve the chances of finding good jobs for people in this sector. the social and cultural aspect of the existence of sports clubs and associations for local and national communities should also be emphasised.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. there is a saying, probably known in many countries: "better late than never". we're late in protecting the soil, after many decades of devastation, and this is most evident in industrial regions, but it's good that we're still seeing that the soil feeds us and we must not destroy it. we must not treat it as a commodity and pursue a policy whereby the biggest business is buying up agricultural land and taking it out of agricultural production for other purposes. that policy is already working against us. it's good that we're finally seeing this and starting to protect the soil, our host. i would point out that the committee on agriculture has stated that the maintenance and development of agriculture is a prerequisite for effective soil protection. soil tended by farmers retains its fertility, and if it is not tended, it becomes a desert. on behalf of the group of the union for a europe of nations, i support the report by mrs gutiérrez-cortines and mr prodi.
madam president! the framework directive on soil protection will, in my view, be an instrument to ensure food production and sufficient clean water for the next generations of european union citizens. soil also has many other important functions: it provides the basis for human activities, including cities and infrastructure, as well as for nature and precious landscapes. finally, soil protection is essential to preserve our natural heritage and natural resources. in this situation, a flexible framework directive recognising the principle of subsidiarity will be an instrument to encourage member states to protect their soils. a directive thus drafted is binding on the member states as regards the results to be achieved in the field of soil protection, but leaves the choice of the forms and methods of such protection to the member states. the proposal in the directive to make publicly available and update every five years lists of contaminated sites, including regional lists, by member states is noteworthy. this is important information for the protection of the health and life of the citizens of the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the speakers in this debate for their positive contributions and i would like to outline the commission’s view on a number of key issues raised by parliament. let me state that the commission will follow the development of its proposal in the council and in parliament and consider its position under the light of these developments. i will start with those aspects of the thematic strategy which appear in the report of the committee on the environment and which are not covered in the directive. i welcome the support given in the report to tackling soil protection at a european level and the crucial links between soil protection and any strategy to combat climate change, biodiversity loss and desertification. i also agree on the fact of reviewing existing environmental legislation to fully exploit and further strengthen the potential synergies with soil protection. finally, the resolution you have approved proposes a number of recommendations as regards a new directive on biowaste and a communication on desertification. the commission will take these recommendations into account when developing further measures implementing the thematic strategy. let me now turn to the soil framework directive and outline the commission’s current thinking regarding the issues raised. many of the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment provide useful clarifications to the proposal. i am referring in particular to a better clarification of the objective of the legislation and the role played by soil functions in ensuring sustainable use of soil in article 1, pursuant to amendment 36. in addition, elements such as the introduction of voluntary codes of good practice or of a non-binding annex on possible measures to combat soil degradation can be supported in articles 4 and 8, pursuant in part to amendments 58 and 65.the addition of acidification to the list of soil degradation processes that need to be tackled in order to consider the different soil conditions that apply in some new member states. the commission also considers the clarification introduced in the provision dealing with the identification of contaminated sites in article 10, pursuant to amendment 74, as an improvement to the text. however, there are also a number of amendments which raise concerns for the commission. firstly, amendment 38 on article 1, to make the soil framework directive subsidiary to other european union legislation so that soil protection provisions contained in other community legislation would take precedence over the provisions of this directive. secondly, it is clear that there must be a date by which the programmes of measures for tackling agricultural threats should be drawn up. thirdly, some amendments, such as amendment 77 concerning article 12, eliminate the provisions concerning the information on soil contamination to be provided for certain land transactions. the soil status report is a very important part of the commission’s proposal. it will increase the level of transparency in land transactions, assist the competent authorities in identifying contaminated sites and speed up the establishment of the inventory. the costs involved in producing this report are negligible compared to the amounts of land transactions of such industrial sites. i would like to emphasise the importance of keeping a common list of activities in annex 2. this annex is of fundamental importance if a meaningful, enforceable, systematic and cost-effective inventory of contaminated sites is to be achieved. many member states and regions already use a very similar list to carry out their investigations. it is very important to have a common list to ensure harmonised implementation and to avoid a distortion of the internal market for the different sectors. thus we will provide investors, economic operators, public authorities and society at large with legal certainty and a common ground to assess the progress in identifying contaminated sites. i shall provide a complete list of the commission’s current position on the amendments to parliament’s secretariat commission's position on amendments by parliament; see annex. as i have already mentioned, i can assure you that the commission will follow the development of its proposal in the council and parliament and consider its position in this light. once again i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts. commission’s position on amendments by parliament gutiérrez-cortines report (a6-0410/2007) the commission will follow the development of its proposal in the council and in the parliament and consider its position in the light of this development. the commission’s current position on the proposed amendments is that there are 50 amendments which the commission can accept fully, in part, or in principle. these are amendments: 1, 7, 12, 13, 15, 20, 22, 30, 36, 41, 42, 45, 47, 49, 53, 55, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 69, 73, 74, 79, 80, 83, 86, 89, 90, 92, 96, 98, 99, 103, 104, 108, 115, 117, 137, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148 and 150. it cannot accept 111 amendments: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 39, 40, 43, 44, 46, 48, 50, 51, 52, 54, 56, 57, 60, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 72, 75, 76, 77, 78, 81, 82, 84, 85, 87, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 100, 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 116, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 138, 139, 140, 141, 149, 151.
soil degradation is a fact. one of the factors that causes this condition is also... the common agricultural policy. the achievement of food self-sufficiency has been overshadowed by intensified agriculture and soil degradation. increased economic efficiency is leading to the elimination of small and medium-sized farmers, who are overwhelmingly more environmentally friendly than large, for-profit agricultural enterprises. it is time to stop the process of abandoning agriculture and return to a rational and sustainable model of agriculture that protects the soil! however, the current distribution of agricultural subsidies is inconsistent with this model. the subsidies are mainly directed at agricultural groups and large intensive farms - 1.39% of beneficiaries receive almost 30% of the subsidy! the cap must be changed. the main objective should be to produce healthy food, not to increase competitiveness. good soil should be a key element of this new policy. that's why i support all those actions that serve to protect the soil and restore its fertility we must not compete with monoculture and intensive animal production. let's say no to cheap hormone-laced meat. let's not compete with the unhealthy fruits, the cheap, low-quality wine, or the gmo foods, the effects of which we know so little about. the european model of agriculture should really set us apart from the rest of the world and be an example to the rest of the world.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. thank you to all the reporters. we're facing a complex problem here. on the one hand, there are the environmental aspects of our atmosphere, and on the other hand, there is the development of air transport, which is an important economic activity, which includes transport, tourism, which is carried out in a highly competitive market. the decisions in this area should be prudent and clear, but should in no way discriminate against european carriers, including those from the new member states. the european aviation industry can be seriously harmed without reducing harmful gas emissions. it is obvious that the earth's atmosphere knows no boundaries. the inclusion of carbon dioxide emissions from civil aviation in the union scheme should therefore be considered appropriate. i also think that we should also take into account the emission of other gases, such as toxic nitrogen oxides. i consider that the most important measures are those which will effectively reduce harmful gas emissions, inter alia, through the use of innovative solutions in the field of aircraft engines, the design of aircraft with better aerodynamic parameters, and radical improvements in air traffic management, which will reduce unnecessary time in the air. i'm considering emissions trading as a substitute right now. i would consider it reasonable today to adopt the base period 2007-2009, to set the emission ceiling at a level of 5 to 10% higher than 100% due to the growing interest in aviation and to include also non-eu carriers operating in the union.
mr. chairman, please! we are discussing today a proposal to integrate european civil aviation into the eu's emissions trading system. in my view, this very important project was prepared in haste, without proper consultation of the aviation industry, especially from the new member states, and without analysing the economic and social consequences of its implementation, as well as the environmental consequences for civil aviation and the risks to europe's economic development, for example in the area of tourism, which is the main source of income for many regions. the project also threatens the competitiveness of airlines and could contribute to a radical deterioration of the already difficult financial situation of many european airlines. therefore, i consider that the earliest possible date for the start of the system, taking into account the aviation sector, for all connections is 2012. i strongly support the so-called wide geographical coverage of the system, i.e. covering all flights to and from the union regardless of the nationality of the carrier. only this solution guarantees the desired environmental impact and does not expose european carriers to a drastic reduction in their competitiveness. i believe that the total number of allowances allocated to the aviation sector should be determined at community level by reference to the average aviation emissions from at least 2005 to 2007, and that the emission limit should be set at 100%. given the divergent views that have been presented during our discussion and the fact that this project affects both the environment and the economy of all the eu countries and our citizens, we should make decisions that are balanced and good.
mr. chairman, please! i'm flying in from krakow, where it was white yesterday and the snow covered the whole city, so it's not that bad yet. protecting the environment and countering negative climate change has become a challenge for all of humanity. as a citizen of the union, i value the european union's commitment to environmental protection. however, the impact of legislation in this area on the european economy should never be forgotten. we are faced with this problem today when we are discussing the directive on co2 emissions from aviation. air transport is now experiencing a marked increase. this is particularly true in the new member states, where the market is growing very rapidly, creating more and more jobs. on a macro scale, it contributes to the growth of gross domestic product. i therefore believe that the new member states should have the chance to bring their aviation development level into line with that of the old european union, which can be achieved by extending the period of application of the directive as far as possible. the new directive as proposed could inhibit the development of this sector, which would be contrary to the policy of equal opportunities in the community. another danger is the loss of competitiveness of european companies vis-à-vis third countries, so it is important that the new rules are accepted globally, not just by the european union. i would like to draw attention to the fact that, in the opinion of the scientific community, there are no immediate plans to develop new technologies that can effectively reduce co2 emissions from aviation. it is therefore of the utmost importance to seek to reduce emissions wherever possible. one effective tool is air traffic management modernization, which analysts say can achieve fuel savings of 6 to 12 percent. in conclusion, i would like to stress that when we are conducting environmental policy we should bear in mind the impact of this policy on each of the member states. therefore, in my view, the base period should cover the period as far as possible, i.e. 2007-2009.
president of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all the groups for their very interesting and challenging comments. let me first try to answer some specific issues, and then i shall make some general comments. i should like to thank mr nassauer for the general support he gave to our priorities. regarding the main issue – subsidiarity – he mentioned, let me say that we are as committed as he to the goal he has set, more precisely: to create a new culture of subsidiarity in europe and to give our own example. i really am committed to that. i am not pretending that we are perfect. sometimes it is difficult to change old habits, but we are moving in the right direction. when there are mistakes, which sometimes happens, then we try to correct them. the recent case we mentioned regarding the apfelwein is a good example of that, and we should accept that sometimes we cannot foresee all the consequences of the regulations we are preparing. i want to assure you that i and the college that is present here are committed to subsidiarity. in all our initiatives we are now looking at the need for a specific legislative initiative – the impact assessment and the quality of our proposals – and we try to do it that way. let me just highlight that, out of the 26 strategic initiatives i have announced, only 8 are of a legislative nature; out of 61 priority initiatives, only 28 are of a legislative nature; out of 87, only 36 are of a legislative nature in general. on top of this, we will withdraw 30 pieces of legislation. however, the point i want to make to you is the following: when we speak about the new culture of subsidiarity, i need your help to explain to our citizens that this is in order to strengthen the european union, not to weaken it; in order to make the institutions more democratic and more accountable, and not to give in to those who are attacking europe and the european union in a populist, demagogic way. this is not the way i see subsidiarity. sometimes, in some of our member states, people say that, because of subsidiarity, the commission or the european parliament should not come forward with this kind of programme because this goes against subsidiarity. in fact, if what they do not want is the european union to act when european action is needed, then i do not agree that this is indeed in favour of subsidiarity. to give you a recent example: in march the european council adopted, as you know, some very important ideas for energy and the environment, namely protection against climate change. for instance, we adopted the general principles of unbundling. this was a decision of the european council. however, i have sometimes heard some member states state that the commission should not insist on unbundling, because this is against the principle of subsidiarity. i do not agree with this, and i have to say so. it is, in fact, resistance to an important european movement that is in favour of creating a real internal market for energy and of having a very strong policy against climate change. this is not in favour of subsidiarity. this is the point where we need your help. we need your help to explain when the european union action is needed, and to be critical of us when you think that european action is not needed, so that we should, if necessary, scrap some legislation. i will come back to mr swoboda’s point on communication later, but i think he is right. in fact, i, together with vice-president wallström and the whole college, are working on this. but the basic idea is, precisely, partnerships. let us be honest about this. we cannot do everything by ourselves. when i say ‘we’, i mean the european institutions – the commission and the european parliament. we need the active involvement of leaders at all levels – national and regional. this is important for subsidiarity. for instance, the länder in germany, the regions in most of our member states, are critically important, and my college and i have been all over europe in the national parliaments, sometimes in the different regions, explaining. i was recently in poland, saying this very clearly, saying that europe is not them in brussels or strasbourg: europe is us, all over europe, and this is a collective responsibility. that is, once again, a change of paradigm, because if you want to motivate the citizens for the european idea, we have to share with them those priorities and not just think about ‘some people in brussels or in strasbourg’ telling the other citizens what they should or should not do. we have mentioned the social dimension. i could not, of course, highlight all the points. let me just tell you that in our programme there are many legislative and non-legislative initiatives in this area. most importantly, we will conclude the work on stock-taking of european society with the vision of how to promote opportunities, access and solidarity in the europe of the 21st century. this will pave the way for a new social agenda and provide the framework for a dynamic and modern approach to the contribution of european union policy to european society today. the commission will also submit proposals to amend the european works council directive in order for them to anticipate and accompany restructuring. another piece of legislation will concern the conditions of pregnant women, aiming at improving existing maternity protection provisions with a view to reconciling professional, private and family life. an initiative will concern the deepening of the open method of coordination in the areas of social protection and social inclusion. this will be accompanied by a recommendation on active inclusion of people furthest from the labour market, concentrating on three pillars: job opportunities and vocational training, income support, and better access to quality services. this takes place in the context of the overall lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. finally, the commission will adopt the communication on anticipating and managing change, launching the second phase of consultation of european social partners on anticipating company restructuring. just to give you some examples that we are indeed committed to the social agenda in europe. mr duff, as regards the need to ratify the treaty, as you understand, i fully share that priority, and i think, precisely, that the social and cultural dimension of europe should be highlighted. i am doing my best in this matter, trying to explain that in europe we need a strong internal market, but europe is more than a market, and i think you can agree that this is also a shared commitment. regarding the ‘wise men’s group’ proposal of president sarkozy, about which you have asked for my opinion, the commission has discussed this issue. we are, naturally, in favour of any initiative that promotes debate and reflection on the future of europe. as real democrats we like debate. that is perhaps our tropisme, but we like debate, we like ideas and the exchange of ideas. so i think that president sarkozy’s initiative should be seen as part of the promotion of such debate and reflection. however, the commission is keen to make sure that this initiative, if it were to be approved by the european council, does not undermine our efforts to build on the success of the lisbon treaty and, most of all, does not undermine its certification. we must be clear about this. that is why we think that this group, in the event of approval by the european council, should not engage in a new institutional debate. i do not think it would be wise to do this, so i will ask the ‘wise men’ (and women, hopefully!) to be wise enough not to open new institutional debates, but rather to concentrate on a vision for europe in 20 or 30 years’ time. this is important, and why should we not have a good debate on this? we should not, either, engage in a negative debate about the geographical limits of the borders of europe. this could be divisive, and it should not undermine our ongoing processes at european level, such as the budgetary review and normal conduct of enlargement negotiations. it is important because of defending institutions. we are for all kinds of debate, but let us be honest: we have institutions. we have the european parliament, we have the commission, we have the european council and, in the end, the institutions are responsible – not wise men or, as we would prefer maybe to say, ‘the bright kids’ – and what they could bring as a stimulus to our debate. we also believe that the timing of the report of such a group should be given careful consideration; the end of 2009 seems appropriate. monsieur jonckheer, merci pour vos commentaires, notamment en ce qui concerne la méthode communautaire et l'appui des verts à cette méthode. nous y serons très attentifs. vous avez sans doute constaté que, dans le cadre du débat sur le traité réformateur – le traité de lisbonne – il y a eu certaines tentatives d'affaiblir la méthode communautaire. la commission, qui a coopéré efficacement avec le parlement, a réussi à éviter tout ce qui pouvait remettre en question les principes de la méthode communautaire. vous avez dit que 2007 a été une année importante pour la grande cause de la lutte contre le changement climatique et nous sommes fiers, commission et union européenne, d'y avoir contribué. en fait, c'est à partir du livre vert de la commission qu'un accord a pu être conclu au conseil européen de mars. l'union européenne peut être fière d'avoir une position de leadership dans ce domaine et va poursuivre ses efforts dans ce sens, notamment à bali, après les événements importants récents, comme le high-level event à new york et le g8 à heiligendamm, qui a été également déterminant, et ce dans la perspective de lancer un processus qui – nous l'espérons – pourrait aboutir, à copenhague en 2009, à la mise en place d'un régime post-kyoto en 2012. c'est vraiment très ambitieux. en tout cas, nous avons conscience de la nécessité de motiver nos autres partenaires dans ce sens. s'agissant de la question des migrations, vous dites que l'union européenne devrait recevoir le prix nobel de la paix. elle devrait également le recevoir pour son action dans d'autres domaines. en fait, je crois que l'union européenne mérite depuis longtemps un prix nobel de la paix, car s'il y a une grande expérience de paix dans le monde, c'est précisément celle de la communauté européenne, aujourd'hui union européenne. voici un exemple. ce mois-ci, je vais à singapour pour participer à la réunion du sommet de l'anase, qui m'a invité parce qu'elle cherche à s'inspirer de notre expérience en matière d'intégration régionale pour travailler à la paix, à la croissance économique et au développement social. nous devons être fiers de servir d'exemple pour d'autres dans le monde et nous y travaillons constamment. en ce qui concerne les migrations, je réponds à plusieurs questions qui ont été posées par plusieurs membres de ce parlement. je l'ai dit à maintes reprises et je le répète, je trouve qu'il est absurde de compter avec vingt-sept politiques de migration en europe. nous avons un espace intégré et nous devons donc avoir une approche commune. soyons clairs, certains états membres s'y opposent. cependant, nous insisterons, car dans un espace intégré, il y a davantage de probabilités d'être confrontés à des problèmes comme ceux que l'italie a connus récemment, notamment en ce qui concerne certains citoyens en provenance de roumanie. nous avons besoin d'une immigration accrue en europe, et non pas de moins d'immigration. voilà la vérité. c'est pourquoi nous plaidons en faveur d'une politique d'immigration qui soit responsable, qui se fonde sur deux aspects principaux. premièrement, nous devons être fermes en matière de sécurité, en luttant clairement contre toute exploitation dans le cadre du travail et contre le travail au noir. c'est pourquoi nous avons proposé – c'est une initiative du vice-président frattini à laquelle nous souscrivons pleinement – une directive qui criminalise l'emploi de personnes qui résident illégalement sur le territoire de l'union pour éviter l'exploitation de cette main-d'œuvre et pour lutter contre ces networks criminels. nous devons faire preuve de fermeté à l'encontre de l'immigration illégale, de toute activité qui sert de couverture à certains réseaux qui sont parfois des réseaux criminels, non seulement liés à l'immigration illégale, mais aussi au trafic de drogue, au trafic d'êtres humains et à d'autres formes de criminalité organisée. en même temps, nous devons être très ouverts, très généreux, très solidaires en ce qui concerne l'intégration au sein de l'europe, tout d'abord, de ceux qui, bien sûr, sont des citoyens communautaires, mais aussi des migrants en général. il faut avoir le courage de dire que cette tâche doit être partagée. les institutions européennes doivent donner le framework mais, dans la pratique, qui va se charger de l'intégration sur le terrain? ce n'est pas le parlement européen, ce n'est pas la commission européenne. ce sont les gouvernements nationaux, les régions, les autorités locales, les ong, parfois même des églises, tous ceux qui sont présents sur le terrain et qui ont un devoir de culture d'intégration. c'est un major challenge. vous avez mentionné kofi annan. je me suis entretenu avec lui sur ce sujet à plusieurs reprises. s'il y a un domaine peu réglementé à l'échelle mondiale, c'est l'immigration. nous avons défini, pour le commerce mondial, et même pour l'environnement, certains principes d'organisation. il est étonnant de constater que les migrations, un des plus grands défis pour le monde, sont, sur le plan international, un domaine où l'organisation fait défaut. je soutiens votre idée selon laquelle nous, en tant qu'union européenne, précisément parce que nous sommes un cas d'espèce extraordinaire en termes d'intégration et de liberté de circulation, nous devons accroître nos efforts pour faire avancer certains principes, car il y a aujourd'hui, en europe et dans le monde, la menace de forces xénophobes, la menace de forces populistes, la menace de forces négatives du passé contre les principes qui sont les nôtres, les principes de l'humanisme, de l'accueil. il faut éviter les positions extrêmes et travailler pour une approche rationnelle, juste et avancée. (applaudissements) monsieur wurtz, vous avez posé quelques questions concernant les instruments de défense commerciale. tout d'abord, j'ai fait référence à ces instruments dans mon discours, en disant que nous allons prendre quelques initiatives en la matière très prochainement. laissez-moi vous dire que nous sommes très attachés à des mécanismes efficaces de protection de nos intérêts commerciaux et de défense contre les pratiques déloyales. c'est pour cette raison que nous étudions en ce moment des moyens d'améliorer l'efficacité de ces instruments. nous le ferons de façon transparente. une large consultation vient d'avoir lieu, l'objectif étant de mieux équiper nos entreprises, et plus particulièrement les pme, pour affronter la concurrence internationale. nous comptons donc prendre des décisions dans ce domaine au mois de décembre prochain. il faut reconnaître que les entreprises européennes sont les plus internationales dans le monde. les chaînes de production et de distribution européennes sont installées aujourd'hui dans le monde entier, elles ne sont pas présentes uniquement dans nos pays. nous pensons que cette présence de nos entreprises à l'échelle mondiale est une source de compétitivité et de croissance pour l'économie européenne, ainsi que pour l'emploi en europe. je peux vous garantir que nous n'avons pas l'intention de récompenser ni de donner des primes aux entreprises européennes qui choisissent de s'installer ou de délocaliser une partie de leur production dans des pays tiers. toutefois, je vais être honnête avec vous, nous n'allons pas sanctionner ni punir les entreprises européennes qui sont les plus globales et les plus compétitives dans le monde. nous avons donc besoin d'instruments de défense commerciale qui soient solides et transparents. nous réviserons les instruments de défense commerciale dans le but de les renforcer sans jamais vouloir les affaiblir, en les adaptant – cela va de soi –aux nouvelles réalités de la mondialisation. je ne vais pas m'attarder sur le thème de la mondialisation. demain, je serai à nouveau parmi vous pour évoquer le document que nous avons présenté au dernier conseil européen, et plus généralement en europe, sur l'intérêt européen et sur les moyens de façonner la mondialisation. nous sommes très conscients de la nécessité de défendre les intérêts européens dans le monde, de protéger nos intérêts sans protectionnisme, de comprendre et d'avoir le courage de dire aux citoyens européens – ce n'est pas facile, mais il faut le dire – que si nous fermions les portes de l'europe, nous serions les premiers à en souffrir. l'europe est la première puissance exportatrice au monde. ce serait self defeating, ce serait contre nos intérêts de nous diriger vers le protectionnisme. l'enjeu consiste à déterminer comment maintenir l'ouverture sans être naïf, comment maintenir et même approfondir l'ouverture des marchés mondiaux en défendant nos intérêts, notamment en tenant compte de nos préoccupations en matière d'emploi. mr crowley, thank you also for your support for our general programme. about the specific point – i know it is a worry and concern for you – let me be clear about the initiatives on taxation. as you know, the commission has been working for some time on the issue of a common consolidated tax base. this is a very complex area and views are very different between member states. i know well the sensitivity in ireland. i also know the sensitivity in other member states. as is usual practice, the commission is carrying out an impact assessment to analyse the issues and to look at the likely impact of different possible solutions before making any formal proposals. all of this is public knowledge and it is entirely appropriate that the commission refers to this in the work programme for 2008. but i agree with you that it is clear that unanimity is in the reform treaty as the rule for any legislation on these issues of taxation. so i believe that your concerns are well taken on board. i think i have reacted to most of your interesting remarks. let me just say that i, of course, concentrated on the most, let us say, polemic issues. what i want to say is that we could see here a degree of consensus about europe. a consensus that i believe is stronger between the institutions, also with the natural differences between political families and i hope also consensus between the different parts of our very diverse union. this, i think, is not the lowest common denominator consensus. it is mainly the result of three factors. first, many of the challenges facing us today are impossible to contest. the imperatives of climate change, the realities of migration, and the risk of worldwide poverty: all these are clear challenges. and you can be from the left, the right or the centre, you can be from the north or south of europe, from the old member states or new member states, from small or big member states, yet these are common challenges that only together we can face. second, we are making it progressively clear that the european union is central to resolving these issues. action by individual member states can only go so far but it becomes more and more obvious that the european dimension is indispensable. of course we have to see what is the appropriate level of using the european dimension – the subsidiarity issue that was raised by some of you – but i think that we can agree that even the biggest member states alone cannot face all those challenges and that we need some level of european commitment. finally, i believe the effort all the institutions have put into dialogue and cooperation is paying off. we are wasting less of our energies in scoring points against each other and more on focussing on how to serve our citizens – and always putting the emphasis on the citizens. a strong union, yes, but a strong union not for the sake of the institutions themselves, but a strong union to deliver concrete results for our citizens: this is our programme. i think that, 50 years on, the genius of the founding fathers in creating our unique mix of institutions is as strong as ever. so, i very much look forward to working closely with parliament as we carry forward proposals on the table into action, as we crystallise our thinking into concrete measures and as we develop our new agenda for the future. on my own behalf and on behalf of all the college, i want to tell you that we really want to have a working, loyal and dynamic interaction with parliament. (applause)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very pleased with the progress made in the commission's energy policy. however, i would like to stress the need for a balance between environmental and strategic objectives. it's very easy to impose new environmental taxes, it's easy to require better environmental standards from the building and industry, but it doesn't solve our energy security problem. political action is needed to move towards energy solidarity in the face of the crisis. it is urgent to apply common market rules to energy owners who also control distribution, especially if they come from third countries such as russia, which does not apply the principle of reciprocity for foreign investment. countries that are vulnerable to energy blackmail will be more willing to bear the costs of green programmes if they are accompanied by strategic decisions. they are crucial for europe's energy security. i still feel like we're not balanced in that area.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the european commission has put growth and jobs at the top of its priorities for 2008. this reflects the understanding that without rapid and sustained growth, it will not be possible to achieve full employment and maintain the broad range of social services that characterise the european social model. unfortunately, the commission document is disappointing in its lack of specificity. the mere repetition of the 'knowledge society' or 'flexicurity' slogans will not improve the situation and the lisbon strategy will remain largely on paper. concrete and more vigorous action is needed to increase the level of employment in european societies, to remove barriers to the single market, especially in the area of the flow of services and labour, and to create favourable conditions for entrepreneurs. europe is a world leader in social and environmental protection. however, its growth potential is too low and does not guarantee that it will remain in this position. the main focus should be on developing education, increasing adaptability, working capacity. we need to move away from a paternalistic social policy that perpetuates inactivity to a social policy that rewards professional activity. the single currency is an important factor in building a competitive economy. i welcome the enlargement of the euro area to include slovenia, cyprus and malta. however, the discriminatory treatment of some new member states that seek to join the euro area, as exemplified by lithuania, must be a cause for concern. the euro area would be the first to lose if this mistake were to be repeated in the future. we expect the european commission to come forward with concrete proposals to support and increase employment in order to ensure a high and growing standard of living in a united europe.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, please! we have already expanded to 12 countries in 2004 and 2007. it is time to focus on integrating all the citizens of the 27 countries and give europe a common direction, common challenges. one of the points on the commission's agenda is putting citizens first. with that in mind, we should be calm and considerate about any further expansion and avoid those that are not wanted by the citizens. i'm thinking of turkey here. as mr barroso has pointed out, we do not have a common immigration policy. i hope that the policy we adopt is one of controlled, carefully selected immigration, like in the united states, because it's not just about the job market or the retirement market, but it's about the people we're going to live with for the rest of our lives. let us choose people for whom integration into european civilization will not be a compulsion but a pleasure.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this year, 2008 is the year without further enlargement of the union, unlike the current year. but it is also a year of opportunity for the development of economic and political relations between the union and a number of important countries in asia, africa, latin america, but also, for example, the caucasus region, as my predecessors have said. we must remember the union's two priorities. first, to contribute to peace and stability, particularly in the middle east and south asia. secondly, the pressure on all our partners, whether poor african or asian countries, powerful russia or rapidly developing china, to link the development of our bilateral relations in the economic and political dimensions with respect for human rights. we cannot separate the two aspects, political-economic and human rights, and treat them separately.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer to the report by professor kudrytsky on the conclusion of an agreement on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas between the european community and ukraine. this is of particular importance for polish-ukrainian relations, for countries, nations, which are bound by centuries-old historical ties. we should take the necessary steps as soon as possible to introduce significant visa facilitation for our friends from ukraine, especially for young people, students, researchers and seasonal workers. in the long term, we should aim to introduce visa-free travel. this is particularly important for laying the foundations for ukraine's future integration into the european union. the union must support the development of democracy in this country, help build a civil society and facilitate contacts between our citizens.
mr. chairman, please! i called it in earlier. the explanation of vote on the report by mr weber on interactive digital television. i wanted to say that there's a very important passage that says that we should not weaken, but rather strengthen the public audiovisual media. i voted for this report because recently a candidate for prime minister of my country said that public television should be weakened. i am glad that the european parliament is speaking out clearly on this issue. we need to strengthen public television and public audiovisual media.
in writing. the member of the european parliament has presented a very interesting report on a very topical issue. as the current digital environment has transformed business services, networks and systems to offer consumers a wide range of choices, interoperability is now a fundamental concept for telecommunications and information technology networks. i agree that the needs of users should be central to the development of the market, so the focus should be on the audience and on enabling them to make a choice with full knowledge of the subject, so that they are indeed able to benefit from the full potential of new technologies. the debate on interoperability is primarily about increasing consumer choice in interactive television services, but this choice is about the services offered by operators rather than the devices, especially as it can take different forms and subscribers can choose from different platforms depending on the content and services available. i agree with the rapporteur that the open standards developed by the european standardisation organisations should continue to be promoted in the field of digital switchover and interoperability of services and that this initiative should be further pursued by promoting european digital television standards in other regions of the world.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to explain the reason for my vote in favour of this very important resolution. the european parliament has spoken out on a matter that is often ignored. in the various member states of the european union, there is less and less gymnastics, there is less and less serious attitude towards sport, which plays a very important social and cultural role. that is why i voted in full conscience in favour of this resolution. i am glad that parliament has taken this position.
in writing. i supported this report because it deals with an issue of vital importance to the health and, consequently, to the lives of a generation of young europeans. the marginalization of physical education in the school curriculum is causing the time devoted to physical education in schools in the eu to decrease systematically. school facilities and sports facilities are underfunded and the equipment needed for physical education is in poor condition. if we add to this the concerns about the quality of education for teachers of physical education, we get a picture that is not encouraging. the european parliament's initiative to change the situation should therefore be supported. i expect that we will feel its positive effects in a few years. more school sports is not just a promise of better performance in competitions and future olympics, but above all the assurance that a generation of young europeans will be much healthier, more efficient and free from the overweight that is so common today. i say this with full awareness, because in my country, poland, the rate of increase in overweight and obesity among children and adolescents is extremely fast. i want to believe that the european parliament's attention to the shortcomings of the european education system in this area and the identification of remedies should have far-reaching positive effects.
in writing. the comprehensive protection of soil is one of the major environmental challenges not only at international level, but also has a huge impact on the economies of the member states. i am concerned about the effects of natural soil degradation and the degradation caused by anthropogenic factors. soil degradation is mainly the result of human mismanagement in agriculture and forestry, as well as industry, tourism and urbanisation. at this point, i would like to point out that compliance with the provisions of the directive will allow degraded land to be put into economic use, while protecting green areas from being used for industrial and commercial purposes. this directive will also allow the classification of soils in terms of their assessment for crop and livestock production, with particular reference to the production of high-quality food. i would like to stress the need for a european strategy to identify and address soil degradation problems. the great diversity of soil types means that, apart from national action, a european strategy is needed, based on prevention, raising public awareness of the need to protect soils and identifying risk areas, in order to tackle this problem at european level. it should be noted that it is necessary to clearly distinguish this directive from other european soil protection standards in order to avoid duplication of provisions. as the current community legislation does not seem to prevent soil degradation and soil protection is closely linked to the major international environmental challenges, i believe that there is an undeniable need to develop community legislation aimed at protecting soil as such.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, the polish mps decided to vote against the report for the simple reason that none of our demands were taken into account. i would like to point out that polish aviation is very well prepared to reduce co2 emissions as part of fulfilling the kyoto protocol commitments (36% of 6% of commitments) and co2 emissions are not a problem of these countries, but of the old fifteen, which to date has fulfilled only 1.5% of its 8% commitments. and that's why the idea of a directive proposal that would ensure that the eu15 would meet its obligations at the expense of the new member states. is this what the european union is all about? i do not think so, and i appeal for careful work and reflection on the second reading.
mr. chairman, please! the schengen decision is a mission impossible, as mr magalhães said, and it shows that if you really want it, you can combine in practice the extension of the freedom of european citizens, including freedom of movement, with the simultaneous strengthening of their security, internal security. the preparation of this decision has taken at least 10 years, with very intensive work in the last two years. today's schengen is a very different project from the one of the mid-1980s. the main difference is that it is fully incorporated into the community legal and organisational order. in other words, for the new countries it was not a question of if, but of when we would become the full beneficiaries of the schengen area. at such times, it is not difficult to reflect on some historical and symbolic aspects. after the second world war, the question of borders and their control became a bloody part of the history of europe. death was often the penalty for crossing the border. today's dimension allows us to speak of the end of this post-war legacy. the new countries have passed the test of readiness. it is no secret that many of the solutions adopted by poland and other new states can and should serve as an example for current schengen members. this fresh wind of new countries will be an inspiration, not a threat to the old union. it will also help us to build greater trust in one another. the schengen enlargement process is also an adventure and hard work for us in parliament. it was an honour and a great experience to work with carlos coelho, the most outstanding rapporteur, and my colleagues in the libe group and committee. i congratulate the portuguese presidency on its great determination and commissioner frattini on his sympathy and commitment to this great achievement, which is unprecedented in history.
mr. chairman, please! on 21 december this year, poland, along with the other new member states, is to join the schengen area. this will be another important step towards membership of the european union. we are therefore very pleased. the next step will be membership of the euro area. joining the schengen group does not mean turning our backs on our eastern neighbours. as part of our schengen obligations, we will try to make it easier for their citizens to enter poland, but i repeat, we will do so in full compliance with our obligations arising from our membership of the schengen area.
mr. chairman, please! like my predecessors, i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for its resolute work on the enlargement of the schengen system. i am pleased that on 21 december one of the last differences in the treatment of citizens of the old and the new union will disappear. as a polish citizen, i am particularly proud that my country is responsible for protecting over 1200 km of the eu's external land borders and that the frontex agency is based in warsaw. at the same time, i would like to take this opportunity to stress that the schengen system is not intended to isolate the union from its neighbours, that it is not creating a fortress called europe. i think that right now, from here, we should send a signal to our non-eu neighbors, including the citizens of russia, ukraine and belarus, that the reinforced eu border is not a wall against them, but is just an element of our eu security, and we will not stop being good neighbors.
mr. chairman, please! as a preliminary point, i would like to thank the portuguese government for proposing a technical solution for a transitional period which will allow the new member states to be included in the sis later this year, before the new system is approved and implemented by the commission. i am pleased that my countrymen travelling to the country for christmas will not have to wait in long queues to cross the border on their way home. however, all this is only possible because all the countries, without exception, have overcome the initial difficulties of implementing the sis and have adapted it to local conditions.
mr. chairman, please! the report by mr carlos coelho shows that the nine new member states are well prepared to open their land borders on 31 december this year and their air borders on 30 march 2008. despite previous reservations, all these states have managed to make up for the shortcomings and to prepare an information system allowing for the exchange of data between the authorities responsible for the protection of the external borders of the union. this will be the first time in almost three years that the principle of free movement of persons, one of the four fundamental principles of the european union, has been implemented. it is also good that the council of the european union, meeting the expectations of the european parliament, has formally decided to open the borders on the night of 20 to 21 december this year. this will be a christmas present for the many thousands of europeans travelling between the old and new member states for the christmas and new year holidays.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. it is good that we are making reasonable arrangements for the financing of political parties at european level. it is necessary and i applaud mr leinen's report. however, there is a wider problem: the impact of political party funding on the quality of democracy, both at the eu level and in individual member states. i am a member of parliament for a party that was for a time, during the election period, deprived of budgetary subsidies for legal reasons and i know how difficult it is without money to face political competition with money. recently, one of poland's largest political parties almost went under because of minor financial mistakes. money is important, but it shouldn't be the whole point of the political landscape, and it sometimes is. this is, of course, a separate debate that we should have here, because democracy should not be dependent on funds alone.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the boeing-airbus dispute at the world trade organisation, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the bitter rivalry between the two economic and political centres on both sides of the atlantic, the united states and the european union, has been going on for many years. it should not be surprising that it is moving into ever more modern areas of the economy. the airline industry is one such field. it is here that new materials, manufacturing technologies, design solutions, automation, measurement and communication systems, and techniques for accelerated testing and reliability assessment of devices under development are developed and tested. it is clear that national governments, as well as the european union, are trying to promote these manufacturing sectors, expecting that the new technologies developed there will be able to be used throughout the economy. since both parties to the dispute are thus directly or indirectly supporting their respective companies financially, the only reasonable solution is to negotiate bilaterally and agree on a gradual reduction of subsidies in relation to both of them. not only will wto arbitration disputes take many years and be extremely costly, but their outcome could endanger the existence of both boeing and airbus.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr iturgaiz, and all the members of the committee on petitions, as well as the committee's secretariat, headed by mr david lowe, for the exemplary work they have done in the three years of this term of office. the committee on petitions dealt with everything that hurt and mattered to the people of the european union: the preamble to the constitutional treaty with reference to god and christianity, the bankruptcy of those who worked with lloyds and equitable life, the catholic radio cope in barcelona, as well as the development plans for valencia, the car tax and the rospudy valley ring road in poland, the violation of the relevant eu directives concerning ireland (the case was tara) and the ring road of orléans in france, and the youth offices in germany, which were very much accused (including jugendamts). the committee on petitions, as mr iturgaiz said, is very important to the citizens of the european union. it brings the institutions of the european union closer together and is essential to presenting them in their proper light to the public.
madam president! in 2006, parliament received 1016 petitions. as in the previous year, about one third of the petitions were declared inadmissible because they went beyond the scope of the european union's activities. this shows the continued need to inform citizens properly about the powers and institutions of the union. the committee on petitions has made a major contribution to the work of the european parliament in communicating with citizens and promoting transparency and accountability in the union's decision-making process. the committee's close cooperation with the european commission and the ombudsman is also commendable. however, there is an urgent need for greater involvement by the council, in particular the secondment of a high-ranking coordinator for petitions, as many of them concern sensitive political issues related to the transposition of community legislation into national law in the member states. only coordinated cooperation between all the institutions and the speeding up of the petition procedure can meet citizens' expectations of a rapid and effective response to their complaints. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-drafted document.
madam president! the contribution of the committee on petitions to communication between the european parliament and the citizens of the european union countries is invaluable and in line with social expectations. the fact that about a thousand petitions, about two and a half thousand letters and as many letters come in and out every year means that this specific contact with parliament is needed by the citizens of our countries and gives hope for a solution to their problems. of course, this does not mean that petitioners are always right. they have differences of opinion and interests. however, the fact that the commission examines petitions always gives the opportunity to identify problems facing society, to improve the law, which is not always clear and unequivocal, to fill in legal gaps and to prevent infringements or incorrect implementation of community law. i congratulate the commission on the results of its useful work.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the epp-ed group welcomed the european commission's initiative to the council of the union and the european parliament to adopt a joint declaration on the european consensus on humanitarian aid. the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. it spent €2 billion on humanitarian causes in 2006, helping over 100 million people in 75 countries worldwide. at the same time, the potential of the european union is not being fully exploited, as the latest oecd report, for example, confirms, pointing to structural imperfections and certain paradoxes in the european union's actions. the unambiguous and joint declaration between the three main european institutions gives us a unique opportunity to reach a political consensus on how the european union should respond to the increasingly complex crises taking place in the world. it allows us to define the framework and definition of humanitarian aid and to define the principles and strategy of the european union for providing aid to those most in need. the declaration can also help to create and present a unified european union position in the forums of the various humanitarian organisations. it allows us to draw attention to the fact that the european union is not only focused on providing humanitarian aid, but is also involved in analysing the reasons why humanitarian aid is necessary. we also try to help find appropriate political solutions to these causes, where possible. i think that the rapporteur, mr cornillet, has done a very good job of analysing the complex and complex situation in which humanitarian aid has been placed over the last 15 years. commissioner michel spoke about this complexity today. the dramatic change in the nature of armed conflicts, the increasing frequency of natural disasters and their increasingly painful consequences, the increasing number of internal conflicts and the associated increase in the number of displaced persons, the non-compliance with, and in many places deliberate violations of, international humanitarian law, the growing threat to humanitarian workers, and the growing number of actors involved in humanitarian aid - all these are new challenges facing the european union and the entire international community. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the need for complementarity, coherence, efficiency and coordination in the technical and political aspects of humanitarian aid and for the 25 member states of the union is a sine qua non in underlining the status of the european union as the main international donor of humanitarian aid. it is also a prerequisite for developing a strong european policy in international institutions, which is adequate to the budgetary resources made available by the union. i would also like to refer to the so-called duty of care. i support the rapporteur's view that the european union should take the initiative in implementing the concept of the duty to protect, giving priority to diplomatic and preventive action, supporting governments in fulfilling their duty to protect their own people and using possible pressure measures such as diplomatic and economic sanctions, leaving coercive measures such as military intervention as a last resort, to be used only in extreme cases, with respect for and in compliance with international law.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the moral obligation to provide humanitarian aid to victims of crises is common to european societies. it is a source of pride that the european union is the largest donor. however, given the scale of natural disasters and other emergencies, aid is often insufficient, delivered too late and sometimes not reaching those most in need. good organisation, including cooperation with other aid organisers, clear rules and clear criteria can greatly improve its effectiveness. it is important to coordinate humanitarian aid with development aid, which gives a chance to become self-reliant and therefore independent of further aid. that's why the european consensus on humanitarian aid is so important. it is also important to recognise the need to protect volunteers from violence.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. globalisation is in many ways an irreversible phenomenon, which the individual eu countries should not only acknowledge but also respond to in concrete ways. however, union action cannot be in the economic interests of nation states, as in the case of unjustified limitations on carbon dioxide emissions, which would seriously damage the economies of countries such as poland. in the political sphere, however, these actions should not lead to the disappearance of national identities. while the asian countries are successfully adapting to the new situation, their economies are growing rapidly, we in the european parliament are discussing, among other important issues, the rear-view mirrors of agricultural and forestry tractors and the role and importance of circuses in the european union, and similar matters. the union is constantly multiplying regulations that impede effective competition and it seems to be missing the point, as we have seen in the speech by the socialist representative today. i hope that today's debate will help to change the way we think about globalisation from a european perspective.
mr. chairman, please! we have to distinguish between two realities: the phenomenon of globalization and the agenda of globalization. globalisation is the result of the development of new technologies in transport, communication, data collection and processing. globalisation has brought new opportunities, but it has also brought new risks. it's up to us how we use it. globalism, on the other hand, is a program for the creation of a supranational world power. it is directed against the freedom of peoples and nations in the name of elevating the few who have the greatest capital and the world's infrastructure so that within the framework of the world state they can pursue their own selfish interests, not the good of peoples and nations. it is a totalitarian program in essence. it also threatens war, contrary to pacifist slogans. europe is tempted to disregard the rights of its own people in the name of increasing the participation of its cosmopolitan elites in world governance. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the european union's development. in the era of globalisation, europe's success will be measured by respect for human rights, family rights and the rights of nations, expressed in the development of institutions guaranteeing respect for their well-being. europe's success will be to show the other peoples and nations of the world the way to build an order worthy of a free man. europe's downfall will be to be part of the totalitarian agenda of globalism.
mr. chairman, please! the commission document is full of words about the european union's place in the process of globalisation, but does it provide concrete answers to the questions we are asking ourselves? i doubt that. the document gives the impression that good eu regulation will guarantee the development of the union and the well-being of its citizens. in the meantime, development and prosperity depend on the efforts of citizens, who should be more efficient and effective than they are today, and more efficient and effective than they are in other countries. good regulation is not enough for the future economic development of the european union. the equalization effect between the old member states and the new ones, which are growing faster than the eu average, is not enough. the effects of labour migration from countries with lower labour costs to countries with higher labour costs are not enough. the future economic development of the union will depend on its competitiveness. the commission document, on the other hand, talks a lot about protecting social gains. that's very nice, but they're not a cause, they're an effect of development. in defending these achievements, let us not forget that innovation, better organisational efficiency, higher productivity and competitiveness are the levers of growth.
madam president! i don't want to repeat the clichés about the benefits of globalization. critical views of globalism should also be presented in the european parliament. and for me, the best illustration of our debate is the voice of the canadian philosopher john ralston saul. i dedicate his words to the chorus of globalists who are also singing in the european parliament today. globalism is an ideology, although it has many elements of a typical western religion. globalism is a belief in one idea that excludes alternative viewpoints. it is based on the belief that economics is superior to all other areas of life and that all economic theories except liberalism have failed and there is no other way. and this belief is also because liberalism has activated global forces that confirm its claims, and deny the claims of others. the illusion of globalism is the idea that economics can be the engine of civilization. over the last 20 or 30 years, we've learned to reduce everything to economic issues. not even marks went that far. he said the economy was important, but he didn't go to the point of looking at everything from a profit perspective.
madam president! council and commission! just as childhood is followed by adolescence, globalization seems to be the natural progression of humanity and its next challenge. in this difficult debate on an ever-new, unfamiliar subject, i find it paradoxical that every one of my speakers, from right to left, has been right on a number of points. one thing is clear: there is a great need for the right rules and regulations to ensure that the benefits of globalization are shared equitably. and since the very definition of globalisation implies that it is a universal phenomenon, it is not enough for the european union alone to have such institutions and regulations - the whole world must adopt them. and mr barroso was right to say that it is the european union that can and should offer the world its balanced and fair model of globalisation.
madam president! the economy is for the people, not the other way around. the natural divergence in the pace of capital and labour movement in the era of globalisation leads to a downward spiral in employment standards. manufacturing plants are moving to areas where wages are getting lower and working conditions are getting less safe. this leads to the loss of jobs for workers in areas with higher employment standards, as well as to a decline in the purchasing power of workers' incomes, which reduces the demand for consumer goods. if the european union is to succeed in the era of globalisation, it must find effective tools to combat social dumping and to maintain and protect europe's social dimension.
madam president, gentlemen of the jury, it is clear that one statement and one action for the lisbon strategy will not solve all the problems of globalisation. but the statement by the council and the commission is a good one, because it points out that globalisation is not a curse, it may not be a threat, but it may be a source of success for the citizens of europe, and that citizens, their activity, should be the main target of the union's action. i support four areas of action. firstly, the knowledge triangle, particularly innovation, and i understand that here it is necessary to act quickly, for example, on the launch of the european institute of technology. secondly, the business environment, which means a fully open, free internal market without monopolies, with full competition, with less regulation, with less bureaucracy, which is what vice-president verheugen is fighting so hard for. thirdly, human resources, which means the problems of migration and, above all, tackling brain drain, which means better education, attractive investment and a social dimension of the union based on the achievements of the economy. fourthly, energy and climate change, and therefore a common energy policy, which i think we have all reached, and emission reductions. but reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the european union alone will not save the world's climate in any way. so we need a politically strong union, because only a strong union can influence the united states, china, india to also respect the rules of climate protection. so reducing emissions in the union - yes, but also a politically strong union, and that means full ratification of the european treaty as soon as possible.
in writing. globalisation is an inevitable process, but the european union's success in globalisation is not doomed. the lisbon strategy, as it has been implemented so far, is certainly not the recipe for success. it remains a paper strategy and it was clear at the halfway point in 2005 that the main objective of racing the us in competitiveness and innovation had not been met. meanwhile, other challenges have emerged in the form of the economic offensive of china, india and other asian countries. until now, the multiplicity of legitimate objectives has obscured the truth about the lack of political courage to undertake structural reforms at national level, where the chance for an innovative and dynamic europe is decided. in the absence of such courage, the european union is looking for alternatives. for example, hoping to radically change the community budget, i.e. increase public spending on r & d, which is not enough if it is not coupled with risk-taking and the empowerment of innovative companies by the private financial sector. the european institute of technology recipe illustrates the tendency towards institutional solutions, while the globalisation adjustment fund is a measure of excessive european fears. the real answer to the challenge of globalisation is full market liberalisation and a bold reform of the european social model.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that after the meeting on the compromise version of this resolution, we had literally 16 minutes to table amendments and review the results of our work. i believe that this situation undermines the right of every member of this house and every political group in this house to have a free hand, including by submitting amendments, on the texts of our resolutions. i'm asking you to make sure that this doesn't happen again in the future.
in writing. the report was very solid, and it pointed out that earthquakes have a negative impact on the economic and social cohesion of the regions. we must remember that large earthquakes also occur frequently in the countries and regions of the european union, especially in southern europe and the mediterranean. the necessary preventive and response measures and actions should therefore be taken in the event of such a disaster. it is important to launch public education and information campaigns across the eu and to provide education and training for staff of the competent technical authorities in the member states, including at regional and local level, and for all earthquake professionals. in addition, we need to take into account the role of numerous national, regional and local authorities and provide guidelines for the effective protection of essential infrastructure such as access to telecommunications infrastructure, power grids, hospitals, bridges, ports, airports, etc. in future, cohesion policy should take earthquake damage seriously and should be included in the implementation of the new financial instrument for the protection of the population. i also believe that the issues of coordination, cooperation and flexibility of authorities at community, national, regional and local level, which are a major problem in natural disaster management, should be discussed.
in writing. the rapporteur, mr thierry cornillet, rightly stressed that the community and the member states should deepen the discussion on the political strategy for humanitarian action in the relevant council forum by setting up a new ad hoc working group. indeed, the establishment of such a group (e.g. cohuma, i.e. the joint working group on humanitarian aid) would allow the development of coherent methods to enable rapid and consistent action in this field. it was also rightly noted that the frequency of natural disasters has increased and their effects are becoming more significant, which results in the need to strengthen intervention. so i agree with the proposal that the eu should increase its ability to react quickly. the readiness and response capacity will indeed be achieved through improved coordination, early warning mechanisms and adequate international storage of materials and supplies.
mr. chairman, please! i am convinced that the regulations we have adopted are very necessary and will contribute to improving the environment and human health. soil is a limited and hard-to-renew natural resource. it deserves special protection because of its social, economic, environmental and cultural functions. i share the view that soil protection should be regulated at community level in order to guarantee a minimum level of soil protection in all the member states of the union. i welcome the proposal to create publicly available national lists of contaminated sites. an inventory of sites where soil contamination may have occurred in the past shall be carried out. the principle of subsidiarity should be applied to assist the member states of the union in the reclamation of contaminated land and to promote the removal of dangerous substances that remain on it. the introduction of appropriate regulations to limit soil degradation, ensure its sustainable use and at the same time allow the reuse of degraded land is a clear step forward in the protection of environmental resources. i therefore consider it particularly important to achieve the harmonisation of the laws of the member states on soil protection.
mr. chairman, please! i voted for the directive. compliance with the directive will allow degraded land to be put into use, while protecting green land from being used for industrial and commercial purposes. this directive will also allow the classification of soils in terms of their assessment for crop and livestock production, with particular reference to the production of high-quality food. i would like to stress the need for a european strategy to identify and address soil degradation problems. the great diversity of soil types means that, apart from national action, a european strategy is needed, based on prevention, raising public awareness of the need to protect soils and identifying risk areas to address this problem at european level.
in writing. the proposed framework directive consolidates the legal solutions for soil protection policy that are fragmented in other legal acts on waste management, pesticide use and environmental protection. the document proposes not only measures to protect and sustainably use soil to prevent its degradation due to climate change, but also measures to restore already degraded soils. the instrument of the framework directive will first of all allow for the diversity of soils in the various eu countries to be taken into account and will guarantee flexibility in its implementation. its objectives are already being achieved, to varying degrees, on the basis of legislation in the member states. on the other hand, the directive represents a huge opportunity for countries that have not had soil protection regulations in place until now. in this respect, the decisions to introduce a definition of contaminated sites and to require eu countries to draw up national lists of such sites, which are made public and reviewed every five years, seem to be important. in addition, they welcome the provision for the obligation to draw up a recovery strategy within seven years of the entry into force of the directive, taking into account the objectives of the remedial actions and the financing mechanism and identifying priority areas requiring special protection against erosion, salinity or acidification. thank you for your attention.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the commission's proposal to the european parliament is based on the new comitology procedure, which significantly increases the powers of the european parliament - the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. the rapporteur believes that the new procedure applies to issues covered by the prospectus rules, such as measures relating to the exemption from the obligation to publish a prospectus, the format of the prospectus and equivalence with regard to third countries, and this is to be welcomed. the amendments tabled on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in the plenary vote are based on this conviction. the report provides additional reflection on the significant progress made in harmonising the rules of european financial and stock exchange markets. this is largely the result of the inevitable process of globalisation, but also partly due to the financial services action plan of 1999. the choice made at the beginning of the 1990s in countries such as poland, where the capital market was rebuilt on the basis of european standards, is also valid, and this now facilitates the harmonisation of rules at european union level.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the eu-russia summit in mafra is a testament to a different climate of relations than that of the 1990s, when the partnership and cooperation agreement was born and expired in 2007. three main factors have undoubtedly influenced the evolution of these relations. first, the enlargement of the european union, which means the definitive liberation of a whole group of countries from russia's sphere of influence, something the former empire is reluctant to acknowledge. second, the authoritarian course of putin's presidency, which is putting off any chance of democratization in the country. although this is acceptable in russia and ensures basic economic order, the union cannot remain passive in the face of human rights violations, which creates an additional irritation. thirdly, the situation on energy markets, which favours the use of gazprom for political purposes, on the other hand, makes european countries vulnerable in terms of energy security. in this context, the resolution proposed by the epp-ed group balances criticism of russia and hopes for global warming with principles reflecting our value system. the points on respect for human rights and the demand that poland break the deadlock on the export of polish agricultural products to the russian market are noteworthy - a testimony to the desired solidarity of the european union countries in relations with moscow.
acting president of the council. i did not really understand that this debate should be about neighbourhood policy and georgia together. we have very little time, so i would like to say very quickly to you on this matter that, as you know, on 8 november last the presidency issued a statement expressing its deep concern at the recent events in georgia and calling for dialogue between the parties and for solutions to the current crisis which do not violate democratic principles and fundamental rights, in particular freedom of expression. we also stress that it is essential that the georgian government acts in such a way as to restore confidence in the legitimacy of its actions and that everything is done to respect the principles of democracy. the current situation is still worrying from our point of view, but we cannot but welcome the announcement by the georgian parliament that the state of emergency will be lifted on 16 november, that is to say the day after tomorrow, an announcement which we hope will actually be put into practice and not just be an announcement. this is an important step towards restoring democratic normality in georgia, as presidential elections are soon to be announced and it is of course necessary to ensure all the democratic conditions necessary for the holding of these elections. we are also pleased that dialogue has been established between the authorities and the opposition. i should like to say that the council is working with georgia to put political and diplomatic pressure on it to normalize the situation as quickly as possible. our special representative for the region is active and is currently in georgia. i should also like to announce that at the next general affairs and external relations council the issue of georgia will be on the agenda. i myself had the opportunity, about three weeks ago, to chair an association council between the european union and georgia, and on that occasion i also had the opportunity to highlight the economic progress the country was making and to refer with some hope to the democratic developments which we then recorded as positive. we sincerely hope that what is now happening in georgia is not a setback, and a setback which would of course greatly undermine those positive aspects of both the political and the economic situation which we thought were encouraging. i suppose the georgians or the georgian authorities must be aware of that. it is not possible, it is not acceptable, to go backwards.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner, minister, i have to go. i would like to mention one aspect of the excellent report - which i congratulate - prepared by our colleagues mr tannock and mr raimon obiols and mr germà. it is the idea of the euro-nest parliamentary assembly. the main objective of euro-nest, as proposed in the report, is to put into practice the idea of building a circle of friends of the union at parliamentary level and to create friendships amongst them. it is complementary to the neighbourhood policy pursued by the union's executive bodies. euro-nest would become a parliamentary forum for dialogue, exchange of experience and multilateral cooperation. we are not just talking about strengthening contacts between the european parliament and the national parliaments of ukraine, moldova, azerbaijan, armenia and georgia, and the representatives of the democratic forces in belarus. above all, we want our neighbours to engage in dialogue and cooperation with each other - to get to know each other better, to build trust between each other, to benefit from the best examples of democracy, respect for freedom of expression and human rights. the euro-nest idea was supported by a majority of the foreign affairs committee and libe committee. i hope it will also have the support of the whole of parliament. i would like to address my colleagues in the liberal group who have tabled amendment no 5 proposing that the existing organisation pabsec be replaced by euro-nestu. i want to say that the parliamentary assembly for the black sea economic cooperation (pabsec) has a completely different role. first of all, there is no role for the european parliament. thank you for your understanding, colleagues in the socialist group. the compromise formula, which replaces amendment no 11 and emphasises the need for enhanced intergovernmental cooperation, will allow this form of cooperation to be properly defined. i am convinced that euro-nest will provide an additional impetus to deepening partnership relations in our eastern neighbourhood, complementing those relations which concern our southern neighbours in the framework of the barcelona process. it will be a sign that we in the european parliament take our neighbours seriously and a proof that we are strengthening the ties in our eastern neighbourhood beyond party lines.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report contains important words and they come at the right time. the situation in the countries covered by the report (and i am speaking mainly of the eastern part) is dynamic, with many new developments as usual. it is very good that the european institutions - the commission, the council and the european parliament - speak a coherent language, a language which complements each other, with respect for the functions for which they were created, and i would like to thank the commissioner and the minister for these opening remarks. i also thank the rapporteurs. the party of european socialists supports the development of a european neighbourhood policy, a strengthened european neighbourhood policy, when it is considered and effective. we avoided a lot of false disputes while we were working on this report. we avoided the foolish debate about whether the neighborhood to the east or the neighborhood to the south is more important. it's like asking a child, "do you love your mommy or your daddy more?" we have avoided the false debate about whether the european neighbourhood policy is replacing the policy of enlargement or not. these are also false dilemmas, but these issues have been resolved. the european neighbourhood policy is effective when it is shared. common, that is, it is led by the european union and it is led by the countries concerned. it cannot be the same for all countries, because these countries have different qualities of democracy and are interested in implementing it in different ways. you have seen how fragile this substance is by observing what has happened recently in georgia and what we have just been talking about. satisfaction with the democratic elections in ukraine is clouded by the fact that this was the second election in two years in the country. so you could say it's a mixed satisfaction. as far as the east is concerned, our policy has always been directed towards an area which is constantly disturbed by the intrigues, open or concealed, of the russian federation. finally, this policy will only be correct, as the minister has said, if it is followed by the means, the political will, the efficiency, the lack of naivety, also in the creation of new institutions.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european neighbourhood policy has also become more important with the recent enlargements of the european community. today, it is an incentive for the border regions to move closer to the european value system. this is a basic prerequisite for achieving objectives of mutual interest, namely to guarantee security and stability and to promote values such as respect for human rights and full democracy. at the same time, the special importance and distinctiveness of countries such as ukraine should be emphasised in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. it should retain its distinct status from the group of countries covered by the epc and be given priority treatment, in particular because of its contribution to the european heritage and its historical links with neighbouring countries. the granting of preferential status to ukraine is of great importance, also because this country plays a key role in ensuring stability and energy security for the whole of the european union. the issue of ukraine and the opening of the path to full membership of the union must therefore be considered separately, also bearing in mind that it is ukraine that is the main partner of the european union in its eastern european neighbourhood.
mr. chairman, please! today, after the vote, i learned - perhaps only i - that the its group ceased to exist when the president of parliament announced this information. i see, however, that the group still exists on the board, so i'm not sure who was wrong, mr mcmillan-scott, who said that the group no longer exists, or someone who writes these letters.
mr. chairman, please! the european neighbourhood policy needs to be constantly reviewed and adapted to the geopolitical situation in order to be an effective tool. only in this way will it be able to fulfil its tasks effectively in the light of the community's needs. the european neighbourhood policy continues to face major challenges. these challenges are not just about skillfully shaping transnational or economic cooperation. today, the question is very important: how can we help to improve the situation in countries where freedom is threatened? i am thinking in particular of russia and belarus. the european neighbourhood policy must be a tool to influence the authorities of countries where political freedom and democracy are only a facade, where journalists of independent media are killed in unexplained circumstances and where opposition is systematically and often brutally eliminated from public life. the countries that do this must be aware that these practices will be publicised and strongly condemned by the european union.
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about the european neighbourhood policy, we must first of all remember to support those governments which respect fundamental freedoms and human rights and to call for those rights where they are violated. this is of fundamental importance for the stability of the european continent. the list of countries covered by the eps is long. i would like to draw attention to two of them: ukraine and belarus, which may be covered by the epc. the eu must make ukraine a priority and the current negotiations with ukraine should lead to an association agreement and then to the possibility of membership of the union. such a policy should be our insurance policy against russia's growing ambitions and another attempt in history to sabotage ukraine. finally, belarus the commission's initiative to invite belarus as an observer to the eps conference seems premature. let's remember that this country is still a lukashenka dictatorship that violates human rights and the rights of national minorities. the eu should rather be more effective in supporting the belarusian public and the opposition. the commission should take immediate action to reduce the cost of visas for belarusians, especially students, which could be a good sign in this regard.
mr. chairman, please! in parallel with the neighbourhood policy, it is vital that the door to the european union remains open to our eastern european neighbours. membership may be a long-term prospect, since it depends on progress in reforms and on the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria, but it is also of great symbolic and political importance. i know from my own country's example that only the prospect of membership of the european union has the power to mobilise society for economic reform and democratic change. today, from the european parliament, we are sending a clear positive signal to our eastern partners and we now expect their response not only in political declarations but above all in practical economic and social action. we expect them to pursue the path of reform and democracy, to reform and decentralize the judiciary, to effectively fight corruption and create a climate for economic growth. i am convinced that a democratic and prosperous ukraine, moldova and, hopefully, belarus one day, is in the interest not only of the citizens of those countries but also of the european union as a whole.
mr. chairman, please! the neighbourhood policy is one of the mechanisms designed to promote the creation of an area around the union which will allow for conflict-free cooperation and prevent the creation of a cultural and economic divide at the community's borders. i agree with the report's authors that it is wrong to include the mediterranean countries in the same policy. the creation of a euro-mediterranean partnership policy with the appropriate mechanisms would be a much better solution. i believe that the neighbourhood policy should only cover those countries which have land borders with the european union. participation in this policy should be a step towards full membership of the community, if all the countries and the union want to do so. in the future, we should consider creating a separate eurasian policy for cooperation with countries in asia that want to cooperate economically and politically with the european union, for example, georgia, armenia. we need to divide our efforts by region.
acting president of the council. i cannot, as you will understand, say whether we will be able to set a date for the start of the talks on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia's accession to the european union next year. the opening of these negotiations requires compliance with conditions and criteria which are difficult and which are demanding and therefore the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will be further or closer to the possibility of having the date of the opening of the negotiations announced, according to whether it can meet these criteria or not. i would therefore say that the answer to this question will be more on the side of the applicant country than on the side of the european union. the presidency believes, as it has always done in the past, that each candidate country should be seen separately on its own merits. if a candidate state is eligible because it fulfils the commitments and the conditions for opening accession negotiations, this status should be granted to it regardless of what may happen in parallel procedures concerning other candidate states.
acting president of the council. mr president, madam president, the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, or cites, provides the international legal framework for the conservation of tigers and other endangered species. the communities and their member states are strong supporters of cites, both politically and financially. in recent years, the community has particularly stressed the need for greater focus on the effective implementation of cites controls in order to reduce illegal slaughter and trade and to ensure sustainable trade in species. to underline this need, commission recommendation no 207/425/ec of 13 july 2007 was published, which identifies a set of actions to monitor the application of council regulation no 338/97 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein. moreover, the species 'panttera tigris' is listed in annex a to commission regulation (ec) no 1332/2005 of 9 august 2005, in addition to being listed in annex i to the cites convention, and as such any possibility of moving specimens of that species is only exceptional and subject to strict criteria. the committee stresses that these criteria and any decision to authorise trade must take into account the fact that this activity does not adversely affect the conservation status of the species. we also stress the need for international cooperation and in particular capacity building to facilitate the implementation of policies for the conservation and sustainable use of wild fauna and flora in the states of the species' range. the union thus supported the decisions on asian big cats adopted at the 14th meeting of the parties to cites earlier this year, with a view to intensifying enforcement and conservation efforts. we are also prepared to assist india and the other states in the distribution area in implementing these decisions. we recognise that effective implementation of conservation measures requires the participation of local populations. through cites we have stressed the need to ensure the support and cooperation of local and rural communities in managing wild fauna and flora resources and, consequently, in combating illegal trade.
acting president of the council. i have spoken at length and in detail about the international legal and legal framework in which the european union operates and fits. i have also, of course, expressed the council's willingness, readiness and effort to do its utmost to ensure that the measures provided for in this international framework are actually implemented. and i also said, very transparently, that we also recognize that there is a collective effort, an effort that needs to be made with the local populations that have direct contact with these endangered species. it is a fight that is not easy, it is a fight against poachers, against illegal activities of this kind, it is a fight that is not easy and people who have experience of these situations know it, they know that it is a difficult fight but that it is, i agree, a necessary fight. it has all the european public opinion with it because, indeed, what we have seen recently in the issues of illegal trade in endangered species, the kind of awareness, of raising attention to these issues is much greater than it was a few years ago. so the kind of public pressure and public attention on these situations is much, much greater today than it was before. so you can obviously count on that public awareness. it is also necessary so that we, the union, and our member states can act more effectively. it is a fight, as i said, madam deputy, it is a hard fight, we have to admit that.
acting president of the council. i have to confess, mr president, that i did not fully understand this second question, perhaps because of delays in interpretation. finally, as regards the tiger issue and the dialogue with india, i must tell you frankly, in all candor, that this is a specific issue on which i have not reflected, but which will eventually merit our reflection, and so i take note of the honourable member's suggestion and eventually in our bilateral dialogue with india - and there will be an eu-india summit - we will also eventually discuss this issue of protected species and how we can better protect endangered species. i must confess that i was unable to understand your second question for reasons of interpretation.
acting president of the council. i agree with you, mr president, that the european union cannot and should not be responsible for everything, nor should it be accused or judged for everything. many of these aspects, many of these responsibilities, according to the treaties, are the responsibilities of the member states and in this case they can be the responsibilities of the member states and also of the states where these situations occur. the european union is not and cannot be a panacea for all problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr member, in its conclusions adopted in may 2006, the council welcomed the commission's white paper on financial services policy for the period 2005-2010. in particular, the council welcomed, and i quote, 'the ideas put forward on the growing importance of the external dimension of financial services, in particular the deepening and widening of the regulatory dialogue with third countries and the efforts to open up the world financial services markets'. on the initiative of the portuguese presidency, the ecofin council reviewed on 9 october the developments in the dialogues with the union's main partners - the united states, japan, russia, india and china - on macroeconomic, financial and regulatory aspects. the importance of these strategic dialogues was underlined during the discussion, as they allow for greater convergence, cooperation and mutual understanding between global partners, helping to facilitate access to their respective markets and promoting macroeconomic and financial stability, particularly in the field of financial services. the dialogues have allowed for significant progress, in particular with regard to convergence and equivalence of accounting standards. the council supports the work being done by the commission, considering that the globalisation of financial markets requires an increased effort of convergence and cooperation at international level, in line with the strategic views of the commission and the council on the need to strengthen the external dimension of the lisbon strategy through promotion, and an international approach focused on regulatory cooperation, convergence of standards and equivalence of standards. the importance of the european union ensuring a coherent approach in this area was also stressed and it was considered that the council should continue to be regularly informed on the progress of these dialogues.
acting president of the council. mr president, you are right, i do not have a black and white answer in my notes to give you, but i will tell you my opinion. in this connection, we had a very interesting discussion this morning, a debate on globalisation, where we also discussed the financial services issues and the issues related to the turbulence that has existed in some financial markets. there is a point that i think is fundamental with regard to africa and that is very much linked to the question of the europe-africa summit and it has to do, in fact, with africa's place in globalisation and whether africa should be an integral partner, as we think it should be in the problems and challenges that globalisation poses to us, whether africa should be an active partner and should have at its disposal effective instruments to be able to be effectively a full-fledged partner in this issue of globalisation and in this movement of globalisation or whether, on the contrary, we want to have an africa condemned to war, insecurity, underdevelopment and poverty. in this context, therefore, financial and other instruments, financial and other initiatives, financial and other mechanisms which can effectively put africa with all of us, with us, with the european union, with other large emerging blocs on the agenda of discussions, debate and the issue of globalisation, cannot but be welcomed.
acting president of the council. madam president, this matter, the conduct of these dialogues, etc., on this particular matter, which is part of the question put to me, has been conducted and is the responsibility of the commission. and i must also confess to you that i am not a financial expert and therefore do not have the detailed knowledge of the subject to give you an answer which is a technical answer. it is asking for a technical answer and i cannot give it a technical answer, i can give it a political answer, and a political answer is one which goes in the direction of recognizing a new reality, a new problem, a new challenge, but also a new opportunity, and that this problem now deserves and has deserved attention and development which were not known before, and that we have, of course, also the european union, which must seek the appropriate answers when problems arise and also have at our disposal the necessary instruments when it comes to developing and progressing. i cannot tell you what the obstacles may or may not be, but i can, as i have done, give you a brief account of the union's policy and the council's responsibilities in this area and say finally that i am very pleased to be able to extend my presence here with you, especially as this year is coming to an end, i only have one more opportunity to be with you and so i have to make the most of this experience.
the rapporteur. the report reflects the place and role we see for ukraine in its own economic activity and as a partner in trade with other countries. we also want to emphasize the role of ukraine in the black sea region, and therefore the political, economic and cultural role. i believe that business and economic development should be independent of the political ideas of the state. the economy must be free, and the government and the legislature must be supportive, and the economic entity is the individual and the group entrepreneurs. the economy should be an instrument for the well-being of citizens, and this is achieved by raising living standards, working conditions, by good education, by good jurisdiction, including the right to property. the common good cannot be allowed to be used for personal gain. instead, it should point out and motivate honest work that brings material gain and other personal benefits. if you do not have good models or stories of your own, it is worthwhile to use the good practices and experiences of others in your neighbourhood. it is therefore important to admit ukraine to the common market and to develop know-how in the union. i think our economic model is good, although it lacks many things, such as food production and trade, but we are making constant efforts to improve ourselves. standards and rules that work are our offer to our neighbor overseas on the bug river. what does the report cover? so, industry, agriculture, energy, finance, border security, transportation infrastructure, non-corruption patterns, intellectual property, the environment, scientific cooperation, relations with neighbours, and so on, and so on, and so on. these are all components of a whole called the economy. its quality is defined by well-defined standards and in the report we recommend that our partner develops or respects them. what conditions does ukraine have to meet in order to negotiate enhanced cooperation with the european union with us? i believe that the first condition is that we should join the world trade organisation and then, in the meantime or before that, resolve the debt problem with kyrgyzstan. it's a process that's going on right now. secondly, the vote on this membership by the ukrainian parliament as soon as possible without delay. other conditions are good relations with neighbours, namely russia and belarus, currency stability and quality of financial services, brand recognition in the international exchange market and adherence to the letter of the law. ukraine, which has declared its intention to join the european union, faces a great or huge challenge. the european union must be convinced by its economic, legal, financial and political activities that it is a serious partner, so that in the near or distant future the question of whether ukraine should be included in a common european body is not a question to be asked. i'm not going to let you do this. our approaches may differ a little bit at times, but i think we have a common goal, which is to work out a favourable modus vivendi, that is, coexistence with this important eastern neighbour. i think, mr. chairman, that i've saved a little time because it's evening.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all let me congratulate the rapporteur, mr zaleski, on this very good report. i also want to thank the rapporteur for the excellent cooperation with the commission services when drafting this report. the report is very timely. it provides a comprehensive overview of the issues at stake in eu-ukraine economic and trade relations. allow me to focus on some points that you also highlighted in your report. we consider ukraine a key and valuable partner in our neighbourhood strategy. we agree with the general spirit of the present report: to bring ukraine’s economy as close as possible to the eu by means of a new enhanced agreement, of which the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement will be a key pillar. the commission also fully shares your views concerning the need to strengthen the rule of law in ukraine and the importance of ukraine’s accession to the wto. we strongly hope that ukraine can still complete the wto accession process this year, and we will cooperate closely with the ukrainian government to this end. we consider that, once the accession package has been approved by the members of the wto, the multilateral process of accession will have been completed. ukraine has set wto accession as its priority and we are convinced that it will duly carry out its internal ratification procedures to formalise its membership. the european union has no interest in further delaying the launch of fta negotiations and is ready to start as soon as the decision on the accession package has been approved by the members of the wto. concerning the future fta, we completely agree that it should be deep and comprehensive, with a strong focus on regulatory alignment. as for economic relations with neighbouring countries, the report suggests a three-way dialogue: eu-russia-ukraine. we should be very prudent not to duplicate processes on topics already covered in other forums. furthermore, the question arises as to whether the european union would not risk being drawn into bilateral disputes between russia and ukraine. we would also question the benefit of such an approach. it is our policy to favour the opening-up of energy markets to competition as a means of ensuring access to secure and affordable energy. this will be an important subject in the future fta negotiations with ukraine. as for concerns on safeguarding the basic needs of the population, eu legislation on the liberalisation of the electricity and gas sector includes significant provisions with the scope to ensure protection of consumers and to safeguard their basic needs. we intend to negotiate ukraine’s alignment with this legislation. concerning the suggestion to extend the gsp+ to ukraine, i would like to underline that ukraine does not qualify for these additional preferences and that the european union has committed itself not to amend the basic gsp criteria on an ad hoc basis. in addition, this would severely undermine our negotiating positions for the future fta. in conclusion, allow me to once again congratulate the rapporteur on his good report. the commission widely shares its general approach, except on the few issues that i have underlined above. the commission will take the report into account in its ongoing and future cooperation with ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is still no stabilization of the post-election situation in ukraine, but those who represent democracy have won. this is a victory not only for democracy in ukraine, but also for the european union itself, which has supported this kind of action. now it is in the interests of ukraine, ukrainians and the european union to consolidate what has been achieved in ukraine with great difficulty. the post-election decisions have to be made by ukrainians themselves, but we can help ukraine and ourselves right after. i fully support the report by mr zaleski and congratulate him on the preparation of this document. in my opinion, there are three main areas that are stabilizing ukraine and are also beneficial for the european union. first, energy cooperation is very important for both sides. we need to be committed to investing in pipelines that are often in poor condition, or in new pipelines, like odessa-brody-gdańsk, in investing in the electricity grid, in supporting energy efficiency. we can offer our own technologies, we can create a common capital to improve energy efficiency in ukraine, it will also help our energy security. finally, and this is obvious, the improvement of the safety of nuclear power plants in ukraine is very important for europe. the second area is scientific collaboration. ukraine's achievements in this field are very high. it's worth it. and also the exchange of students and researchers, which can help to make up for the deficit in the european union, because we are short of 700,000 scientists. let's remember that this is always the safest and fastest field and opportunity for cooperation: science, universities, students. thirdly, cooperation between local and regional authorities. our european cities in particular have a lot to offer. we can help to create full democracy also at the local government level in ukraine, which has not happened yet. we should be able to do all this with the far-reaching aim of an association agreement with ukraine. whether it's 10 years from now or 20 years from now. it's worth presenting ukraine with such opportunities. it will help the ukrainians and the european union.
mr. chairman, please! in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, ukraine is a country of strategic importance, an important partner of the countries of the european union. we all hope that the increase in trade between ukraine and the countries of the european union will contribute to economic development and deepen cooperation with the countries of the region. it is in the interest of both parties to maintain good economic relations. the economic development of ukraine should be carried out in parallel with respect for the principles of democracy and the rule of law. i am also referring to respect for the rights of national minorities and, importantly for me, the non-authorisation of organisations which glorify fascism and genocide. we support the democratic and economic processes of our eastern neighbour. on the other hand, it is necessary to warn against biased and unilateral commitment to any political bloc in ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to congratulate mr zaleski, as you have done before, on the preparation of such an insightful report on trade and economic relations with ukraine. issues of cooperation with ukraine are of particular importance at the moment, and any initiative to deepen cooperation underlines europe's interest in our eastern neighbour and is a clear gesture of openness on the part of the european union. the problem is that the moment when the idea of closer cooperation, which goes beyond the european neighbourhood policy, which has so far been unfavourable to ukraine, should finally come to fruition. it is undeniable that ukraine still has a long way to go before it is fully integrated into the economic, political and social structures of the community. the tasks that ukraine still has to perform are detailed in the report. while ukraine has made progress in the liberalisation of trade in goods and capital flows, further reforms and strengthening of the ukrainian economy, including accelerated wto accession, are necessary. despite the european aspirations shown during the orange revolution, ukraine still needs to make a clear choice between the european and the russian option. if we want ukraine to choose this european option, we must say so clearly and support it. the union should express its reciprocity in its relations with ukraine by actively supporting the transformation of ukraine on the one hand and the european union's efforts to achieve a gradual transition from a neighbourhood policy to an integration policy on the other. this requires action at both the economic and the socio-political level. the independence of ukraine from russia should therefore be supported by strengthening economic relations, i.e. by establishing a free trade area between the union and ukraine, by integrating ukraine into the community's energy networks or by co-financing the transport system. it will also be important to support and implement programmes to promote ukraine in the european union and the european union in ukraine, and programmes to develop science and education, as professor buzek mentioned. the most important action to change the image of the european union in the eyes of ukrainians will be to abolish the visa requirement for the european union and to clearly define - as all have mentioned - the possibility of ukraine's accession to the european union, even if it is in the long term.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the strengthening and development of political and economic relations with ukraine is clearly in the interest of the european union. ukraine, which is clearly benefiting from the ongoing process of democratisation, is becoming one of the european union's most promising trading partners. ukraine's efforts to become a member of the world trade organisation should be supported. the admission of this country to this organisation will ultimately determine that this country has moved from a state-controlled economy to a fully functioning market economy. it is also important to accept ukraine's desire to achieve good political and economic relations with russia. since russia, by proposing a single economic area agreement with ukraine, is seeking to subordinate that country to its own interests, a firm position on this issue from the european commission is needed to support that country in its aspirations to become a member of the european union. ukraine should have good political and economic relations with russia, but at the same time its eu aspirations must be supported. the arrangements resulting from poland's accession to the schengen acquis will enter into force at the beginning of this year. the point is that compliance with the rules that seal the borders of the european union should not at the same time lead to the creation of a new berlin wall for ukrainian citizens. i hope that the european commission will allow poland to adopt such legislation in this area so that it is beneficial for the citizens of ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! ukraine today faces a strategic decision: to perpetuate the country's division in the future by forming an orange coalition, or to form a coalition of our ukraine with the party of regions. the decision in this case will be of great importance for the future relations of the union with ukraine. the first option would likely involve political cooperation with the european community and enormous economic tensions with russia. a large orange/blue coalition will bring relative economic stability, but the country's integration into the community will be considerably delayed. i am not sure that the union is able to provide ukraine with sufficient aid to compensate for the losses caused by the conflict with russia. the problem is so serious that it requires the union to declare at this very moment whether the european community is ready for a deep financial and political commitment to help ukraine. in the absence of a clear position, we can ourselves help to destabilize the internal situation in ukraine. i want to congratulate mr. zaleski on his report.
mr. chairman, please! ukraine is a strategically important neighbour for the european union. it's also a natural bridge to russia and central asia. since 2004, the year of the great enlargement, the eu has become ukraine's largest trading partner. the economic and trade interests of the union and ukraine are largely convergent and further integration of our markets is therefore appropriate to maximise the benefits. the way forward is to create a common free trade area, but first ukraine must complete the process of wto accession. we should do everything we can to support ukraine's efforts to join politically and diplomatically. it is also necessary to provide continued assistance to ukraine to meet the necessary wto requirements. let us remember that behind ukraine there is a powerful hand of russia that would like to dominate this part of europe again. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of the eu's anti-terrorism strategy. mr zaleski's report is a good step in that direction. congratulations, mr. postman. i'm going to have to ask you a question.
mr. chairman, please! ukraine in european politics should be one of the priorities of the european union's foreign policy. this is due to its strategic geopolitical location. on the one hand, it is a direct neighbour of the european union, and on the other, ukraine can be an important bridge between the union, russia and the countries of central asia. with access to the black sea, it can become an important economic partner in this region as well. i support the rapporteur's proposals on the point concerning the assistance of member states to ukraine's accession to the wto. this will bring a number of benefits to ukraine and the region. all this while not overlooking the fact that the government in kiev has a lot of work to do because of its historical achievements. the european union should support the ukrainian government in its efforts to rebuild the state in many ways: not only in the economy and industry, but also in the social sphere. it should also be highly flexible in its foreign policy, taking into account the political complexity in ukraine. it is important to take account of russia's interests, which are intertwined with those of the community in the far-right ukraine. ukrainian democracy is still young. however, recent years have shown that democratic processes are stabilising. we must not forget that, depending on the mood of the people, strongly anti-european forces may come to power. i therefore welcome the congratulatory voices that have been heard in this chamber, and i welcome the report by mr zaleski, which has addressed all these important issues and set out the paths that the union should follow in its policy towards ukraine.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. implementing the lisbon strategy in the area of quality job growth requires tools. one of these is the quarterly statistics on job vacancies in the community. eurostat must have a legal basis for collecting data on job vacancies. an unwritten contract is not sufficient and does not guarantee comparability and completeness of data. now, a few details. the first amendment does mean more bureaucracy for small businesses, but it is in small businesses that a higher percentage of employees work, and so knowledge of the situation is more and more needed. i support amendment no 2 to include the social partners in the implementation of the regulation. amendment number three regulates how data is transmitted even when it is provided voluntarily - it is necessary. i also support amendment no 17, which guarantees the publication of data to enable practical conclusions to be drawn. i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! any attempt to rationalize the community's reality must be respected, especially since it concerns the employment problem, which is perhaps the most sensitive aspect of the socioeconomic transformation of an integrated europe. the rapporteur is very good at finding the atmosphere of particular expectation that accompanies this legislative initiative by giving the report an accessible, really interesting form. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council replaces the current practice of collecting data on job vacancies under a gentlemen's agreement with a decision establishing a legal framework for this activity. the opportunity is there to improve the next stage of the information commitment process of integration, notably as part of the basic european economic indicators. this has created a much-needed legal framework to support the development of the necessary methodological foundations for the summaries of the growing data sets. the regulation also offers other benefits. it allows for higher standards of quality and comparability of statistics. it also facilitates the formulation of effective labour market policies based on relevant data in both the national and international context. it will also allow the implementation of these issues in individual countries to be monitored. the governments of the new eu countries agree that quarterly statistics will provide them with a coherent system of indicators for assessing the labour market. they note, by the way - and we add with relief - that the introduction of this regulation will not increase the need for funds for the implementation of quarterly surveys. in justifying its position on this project, the polish government stresses that the standardisation of research at european level and the monitoring of its quality should contribute to the expansion of knowledge on the development of demand for specific qualifications and to a more effective monitoring of the situation on the polish labour market. it will also help to formulate employment and wage forecasts more accurately. the comparability of data at european level will allow the extent of mismatches in national labour markets to be assessed against the rest of the union. it also has practical implications for the correlation between employment policy and supply and for the planning of future workers' vocational training.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my support for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on quarterly job vacancy statistics in the community. it is not debatable how important it is that these data are collected systematically and in a uniform manner, while meeting the standards set in all member states. the value of the information thus collected is undeniable in the context of the assessment of the conditions prevailing in the labour market in the european union, as well as for the functioning of the european central bank. the current situation where data is collected on the basis of an unwritten contract clearly shows that this is an inefficient solution and that it is necessary to change it. only if a regulation is adopted which establishes uniform rules for the production of high-quality statistics throughout the community will it be possible to have a precise overview and analysis of the factors which constitute the overall picture and the state of the labour market. this regulation will not only oblige member states to produce statistics according to precisely defined standards, but will help them do so by providing a ready-made tool. the harmonisation of such research at european level will contribute to a better understanding of the development of demand for specific occupations in national markets and will allow for more accurate employment and wage forecasts. it is therefore essential that a legal instrument which will define in a clear and transparent manner all the rules for the collection of data on job vacancies covering the whole community should enter into force.
mr. chairman, please! in response to the commission's recommendation on cross-border collective management of copyright in respect of legal online music services, parliament adopted a resolution calling for a framework directive to regulate this issue. the commission failed to carry out the necessary and extensive consultation of the interested parties, including parliament, in breach of democratic procedures. it is unacceptable to ignore the institutional triangle and to apply the so-called soft law approach without prior consultation and formal involvement of parliament and the council. that recommendation, which in practice aims to give rightholders greater freedom to choose their collective management organisation as appropriate, has in fact far-reaching consequences for the copyright and related rights market, posing a potential threat not only to competition rules but also to cultural diversity. as a consequence, market power will be concentrated in the hands of a few of the largest entities, which will be able to circumvent the network of bilateral agreements and license the entire european market. it is worth recalling that around 5 to 7% of the eu's gdp comes from trade in goods or services protected by copyright and related rights. this is all the more indicative of the importance of properly managing and strengthening the rights concerned in the digital age. in compliance with the principles of competitiveness, it is necessary to prevent the compression of creators' revenues, while ensuring that users of musical works are granted a community-wide licence that is appropriate to the business model of the future. to that end, the commission should submit a draft appropriate legally binding instrument to the actors in this field as soon as possible.
member of the commission. madam president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, since july 2007, the commission and the portuguese presidency of the european union have been working closely together to launch the process of developing a more strategic and effective response by the european union to situations of fragility in partner countries. this process will have to be continued in the framework of future presidencies. the aim is not to label or classify countries, but to adapt their instruments and responses to specific situations. in these fragile situations, major obstacles to poverty reduction exist. institutional capacity is very limited, with states unable to assume the functions of a king or the consequences of natural disasters or violent conflicts or the lack of political will of the government to achieve development goals. in extreme cases, these situations can have consequences beyond national borders and affect regional stability and even global security. the idea of fragility is not new, even if the international debate is relatively recent. donors, partner countries and civil society have long recognised the need to be more effective in particularly unfavourable situations in order to achieve sustainable development goals. each situation is complex and different and requires an appropriate response, involving both diplomatic action, humanitarian aid, development cooperation and security and crisis management interventions. the effectiveness of the eu response requires a long-term commitment, but also the definition of clear objectives when engaging in a fragile country. the main focus will remain on capacity development and human security, with a view to sustainable development and poverty reduction. however, it should be avoided that support for fragile situations is at the expense of the stronger countries. commitments to increase aid are thus back in the foreground. the european commission presented a communication proposing a pragmatic approach to the european union's engagement in challenging environments for sustainable development, stability and peace. this communication was forwarded to all the institutions of the european union. the general affairs council on 19 and 20 november will adopt the conclusions in this field. it will invite the commission to develop a concrete work plan for the implementation of the recommendations and priority actions set out in the communication, which aim to address fragility more effectively by supporting the efforts of partner countries to create or restore the conditions necessary for their sustainable development. the year 2008 will be devoted to preparing this strategic approach of the european union to situations of fragility. this process requires the active participation of all eu institutions and all development actors in the eu and in partner countries. the european parliament's contribution to this exercise is of great interest to the commission, which invites it to be actively involved in this debate, which should make it possible to support a comprehensive strategy to respond to situations of fragility and thus contribute to the creation of the right conditions for sustainable development, stability, peace and democratic governance.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am pleased to be able to speak on behalf of such eminent experts and practitioners who have been working on this subject for years, and i include the president among them. i would like to draw attention to the problem of the growing number of countries considered to be unstable. in six years, the number of these countries has almost doubled from 14 to 26, so this is a very real problem, and one that is becoming more and more of a challenge for the european union. and i would also like to emphasize that more than half of these unstable countries are in sub-saharan africa, which shows the need for us to pay special attention to this region of africa, this region of the world. and i think we also have to be very clear about the need to build the authority of governments in these countries. the african union rightly points out that the reconstruction problem is also a political issue, perhaps more than a technical one. so the question of the mechanisms of democracy, the mechanisms of transparency, are fundamental questions. i fully agree with my predecessor, mr hutchinson, who spoke of the need to simplify procedures so that our help is quicker and more real.
mr. chairman, please! the economic development we all want is unfortunately accompanied by an increase in income inequality, which weakens social cohesion and creates serious challenges for the weaker groups, those affected by unemployment, those with low earnings, those with less access to education and health care. the tasks adopted at the nice council are not being sufficiently implemented. there are still groups of people whose incomes are below the subsistence level. lack of economic independence also causes a violation of the sense of dignity. the universal prohibition of discrimination, the guarantee of equal opportunities, especially for disabled people, are obvious and necessary, but they mean an increase in social spending. our nations are aging, raising concerns about the financial viability of our pension systems. i congratulate mrs lynne on her excellent report, which draws attention to the above and other serious social problems in our countries and the ways in which they can be solved. i'm totally behind this project. however, i would like to point out the contradiction in the european union's approach to social and economic problems. pressure to curb social spending is preventing many social problems from being solved. an example of this is the reform of the pension system in poland.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not before it comes to the vote, i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on international trade for the successful work which has now saved us time by the omission of amendments. this report should be a clear signal to the new government and parliament in ukraine that we have done everything necessary to enable the negotiations for the free trade area to proceed. we are trusted partners in this dialogue. if a representative of ukraine is present, he or she may, if appropriate, inform the national parliament that the european parliament recommends that the application for ukraine's accession to the wto be voted on without delay and adopted as soon as a decision has been taken in geneva. for the mutual benefit of both the eu and ukraine, i now ask you all to support this report. thank you, thank you. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the rapporteur, jo leinen, rightly points out that the most important innovation in the commission's proposal is to make it possible to support not only european political parties but also political foundations associated with them at european level from the community budget. i agree that the proposed regulation will improve the financial stability of european political parties and the financing of their political campaigns in the 2009 european parliament elections.
mr. chairman, please! poland's accession to the schengen area brings with it not only potential benefits in terms of border crossing convenience, but also risks. the negative phenomenon that poland has been experiencing for many years is the difficulty of entering our country for citizens from the eastern neighboring countries, including poles living in belarus and ukraine. the absence of border controls can lead to many negative phenomena related to crime and illegal immigration. they are also concerned about the move to abolish national border controls in the member states in favour of pan-european, eu border services. that's why i abstained on this matter.
in writing. neighbourhood policy is taking on new importance at a time when further enlargement of the european union is becoming unfashionable. it is different in the mediterranean than in eastern europe, where many countries freed from the soviet sphere of influence are openly declaring their wish to join the european community. in this case, as poles, hungarians and lithuanians well understand, any alternative forms of cooperation do not satisfy national ambitions. they also have less influence on the desired direction of political and economic development in these countries. they are less motivated to strengthen the procedures of the democratic rule of law and the principles of the market economy and genuine respect for civil rights. from the perspective of a border country of the european union such as poland, it seems justified to be as open as possible to the aspirations of the countries beyond our eastern border. this is clearly linked to the creation of a zone of stability around the european union and the limitation of the space for demagoguery, which is easy to find in young democracies. the budgetary effort, based on the new enpi instrument (replacing tacis and meda programmes), to support the desired processes in our environment is also justified. so far, the eastern european region has been less well funded than the mediterranean region. the larger the european union, the greater our responsibility for the old continent.
mr. chairman, please! the european union should aim to build stronger and closer relations with ukraine. the report by mr zaleski, which has just been adopted, contains many suggestions on how to achieve this. ukraine should be our strategic partner. not only because of its special geographical location and size, but also because of its role in the region in relations with russia and the central asian states. it is therefore in the union's interest to further strengthen and develop economic and political ties with that country. we are all aware of the work that still needs to be done by ukrainian society to achieve western standards in the economy, living standards and social affairs and to strengthen the democratic system in the country. the union should assist in achieving these objectives, including by concluding a free trade agreement with ukraine and supporting its accession to the wto. this will contribute to the strengthening of the market economy, democracy and the citizens' state, bringing us closer to membership of the union. the rapprochement between the union and ukraine is a long, difficult and multifaceted process, but it is a necessary one. to achieve this convergence, ukraine must continue the economic and social reforms it has begun, maintain its pro-european policy stance and strengthen democracy. the union, for its part, must send a clear signal about the prospect of ukraine's membership of the union.
in writing. i agree that social inclusion and social security are among the fundamental values of the european union and are a fundamental right of all citizens. the report rightly emphasises the need to take account of ethnic and religious diversity in eu legislation in order to protect all people from violence and discrimination. i also agree with the formula that access to goods and services should be a right for every eu citizen.
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mrs elizabeth lynne on the social reality assessment. the commissioner rightly pointed out that the renewed lisbon strategy focuses not only on economic performance and competitiveness, but also on the pursuit of greater social cohesion and the social dimension of sustainable development. social inclusion and social security are core values of the european union. they are a fundamental right of all people, regardless of their ethnic origin, age, gender, degree of disability, sexual orientation or religion. unfortunately, a large proportion of the population of the european union still lives in poverty. member states propose different forms of protection against poverty and social exclusion. i therefore believe that cooperation and the exchange of best practices between member states in this area should be strengthened. in addition, attention should be paid to the problem of youth unemployment and to combating child poverty, as children from poor families have less chance of finding a job in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction and my thanks to the other co-authors of the resolution on such an important issue as the developments affecting the christian communities in certain countries in the middle east and worldwide. at the same time, as a signatory to the text of this resolution, i would like to stress that guaranteeing freedom of religion is the first step towards ensuring fundamental human rights, and the cases of persecution of christians that are taking place in the world are a basic example of the violation of these rights. moreover, in view of the lack of reaction on this issue from the authorities, institutions and political movements in the world, i would like to emphasize once again the importance of this resolution in defending the rights of christians and to stress that the union for a europe of nations group fully supports it.
on behalf of the uen group. - mr president! - i have to go. we're talking about the brutal persecution of christians here today, particularly in the middle east. however, let's remember that christians are persecuted all over the world, and i disagree with what mr. casaca said, that there are a lot of religious minorities that are persecuted. i ask you to give me examples of where there is persecution on a large scale, i'm not talking about the accidental, reprehensible killing of some new believer, but where there is persecution of any other religion the way that christians are persecuted? i agree entirely with mr posselt, and i agree with many other speakers who have cited dozens of examples of persecution of christians, and not, as mr casaca says, many others. that's not true. christians are the first and foremost persecuted. we heard president sarkozy speak here yesterday. president sarkozy spoke of the need to defend europe's identity. what is our identity? who will defend us if we do not defend ourselves and the sources of our identities? it is the christians in the middle east who are the proof of our european identity. they've been there for 2,000 years, and we have to protect them so they can stay there.
madam president! the middle east also has its christian roots. despite their differences, christians in that city have repeatedly demonstrated that they can live together in peace and mutual respect with muslims, jews, and people of other religions. but recently we have seen the actions of the followers of islam, which are the practical implementation of the false thesis that being anti-christian shows how good a muslim one is. this was recently noted by lebanese journalist hazem saghied. the numerous and often drastic violations of the rights of people who are treated as second-class citizens solely because of their christian faith are evidence of a violation of the fundamental principle of human freedom, freedom of religion. the question is: what can we in the european union, an open, respectful european union of muslim fellow citizens, do for christians who have no such rights in these countries? where's the reciprocity? it is not in the religious killings, the widespread discrimination, the denial of christian temples, or the destruction of christian cultural monuments. the whole world needs peace, people need freedom, including religious freedom.
madam president! the current political situation in the middle east has made christians in the region feel increasingly threatened. one reason is the growing influence of islamic fundamentalists, who blame them for all the failures of the communities in the region. because of their religious affinity to western societies, they are also accused of westernising traditional social structures, something that is so reluctantly discussed in the middle east. among other ways in which fundamentalists express their discontent are anti-western demonstrations, the destruction of christian symbols, the destruction of christian-owned shops, and, in extreme cases, murder. the inaction of governments has caused more and more christian families to emigrate. the resolution outlined a number of problems facing christian communities in the middle east. but these are not all the examples, and i think that the european parliament should prepare a comprehensive report on the situation of christians in the middle east or on the situation of religious denominations in general. we should also consider how to conduct a dialogue between civilizations in such a way as to effectively involve christian and muslim communities in the regions.
madam president! i congratulate mr. mario mauro. he is a very good man. i have no doubt about this resolution. i support her completely. the only question is whether we're effective, whether we'll be effective, and whether it'll make a difference. we have three ways of doing this. the first way is diplomatic pressure. that's what we're doing. but we also need to get european governments on board. every diplomat needs to remember that. we need to take action in bilateral and multilateral talks. only a massive diplomatic push will get us through this. the other way is economic sanctions. i know from my own country's experience 20, 30 years ago, what economic sanctions meant against the communist government in warsaw - well-chosen so as not to harm the citizens. we have to use that, too. and finally, a careful analysis of our actions, because sometimes things are better in the middle east and other places in the world, and sometimes they're worse. it also depends on our own actions, which may be inconsiderate and unwise. it's about intervention, it's about cultural events, it's also about diplomatic statements. we don't want to hide behind our beliefs. on the contrary, we want to make them clear. but we must also act not only decisively but also prudently.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. i would like to begin by thanking the co-authors of the resolution. at the same time, in the light of the community guidelines on the protection of human rights adopted in 2004, i would like to stress the need to improve relations between the european union and uzbekistan. however, i would like to stress that these relations must be based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, with particular regard to the latter. moreover, with regard to the decision to suspend for six months certain sanctions imposed on uzbekistan, i support the initiative to monitor progress in respecting human rights in that country. the refusal of the ministry of justice of uzbekistan to recognise the office for the monitoring of human rights is evidence that further efforts should be made in this area. as vice-president of parliament responsible for the neighbourhood policy, including with uzbekistan, i call on the international institutions, and in particular the uzbek authorities, to take action to support and develop civil society.
madam president, first of all, i am really worried about the ppe-de group’s attitude concerning the human rights situation in uzbekistan. we should not be taken in by the hypocritical efforts to achieve respectability undertaken by the uzbek government with the aim of giving the impression of democratic progress and improving relations with the european union. no, uzbekistan has not progressed in the last two years. the government has still not authorised an independent investigation into the killings in andijan. human rights are still mocked and torture is still used, according to the un report. political opponents still do not have the right to express themselves freely. the press is still at the command of the government. we denounce that, and we also question the government on two murders, those of a theatre director and a journalist, both known to have criticised the uzbek government. we must not support the subterfuge of the self-re-election of president karimov on 23 december and we must remain very cautious and attentive regarding the uzbek political situation, even if some national interests within the european union suffer because of it. human rights must never give way to economic relations in the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the directive. we're talking here today about a tragedy that happened in somalia. it is generally said that there are three means of intervention in such a case: diplomatic pressure, economic embargo and possible military intervention. but we are not talking about the fourth issue, which is that the eu countries should first of all prevent their own pseudo-business from corrupting the kaziks in the various post-colonial countries, who then go to civil wars, often in the nefarious interests of the pseudo-business. and the second point about what mr romeva and mr rueda and mrs gomes have said is that the weapons used in these countries, including somalia, are manufactured and exported from so-called democratic countries, from economically developed countries. the countries of this part of the world should influence their arms manufacturers and their pseudo-businessmen so that they are not the inspirers and accomplices in the worst calamities that are happening in the world today.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. somalia has not had a functioning government since the fall of the siad barre regime in 1991. the situation inside is characterized by chaos and anarchy. the conflict between the rebels of the union of islamic courts and the troops of the provisional government resulted in the displacement of 850 thousand people and many deaths. the situation in the country is dramatic. the region is plagued by cholera, more than 1.5 million people are in urgent need of medical assistance, and tens of thousands of children are suffering from malnutrition. there is a real risk that this conflict could contribute to the destabilization of the entire region. the fact that only 1,600 of the 8,000 troops promised by the african union have been deployed to the peacekeeping operations so far is even more worrying. the african union, the united states, the european union and the un should therefore increase humanitarian and logistical assistance to the somali people and intensify diplomatic efforts to accelerate the peace process and establish a stable government through free elections in 2009.
on behalf of the uen group. - mr president! - i have to go. somalia is on the somali peninsula, the horn of africa, and is ethnically and religiously homogeneous. somalis make up 97 percent of the population, and muslims are almost 100 percent. with its natural resources, it had the conditions for economic development and a decent life for its citizens in the republic of somalia, which was established in 1960. unfortunately, the coup, the civil war, the shifting political orientation, the tribal divisions, the taliban-linked islamic courts union's entry into the power struggle, have created a living hell for the somali people. how do we help these people? the resolution of the somali issue is the responsibility of the un and the african union. in the interest of africa, the african union should step up political and military action to protect people and create conditions for desperately needed humanitarian assistance from the un and the european union. in the case of somalia, the debate about the human rights violations that are rampant in that country will not change anything. we need action that is supported by the european union.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. in 2000, the charter of fundamental rights was written as a declaration of values to guide the union's policy. the union itself was to accede to the european convention on human rights. the european court of justice was to cease ruling on the basis of general principles of law derived from the constitutions of the member states. it is 2007, the union is about to join the european convention, but not to become the only european human rights system. we're building an alternative, in many ways, a novel system based on a legally binding bill of rights. the general principles of law will remain the third basis for adjudication in fundamental rights cases. all this complicates the protection of fundamental rights in europe. it makes it even less understandable to the public, and that is the question that many europeans are asking. these are, after all, the reasons why two member states have opted for protocols to protect against the unintended consequences of the card.
madam president! the charter of fundamental rights is the 21st century's early counterpart to the great declarations of human and civil rights of the 18th, 19th, 20th centuries. the great manifestos of freedom and the rule of law that created modern democracies. it's the equivalent of what's happened over the last 200 years in the development of democracy and the liberal democracy system that we have today. i see no reason why this card should not be accepted in some european countries. mr szymański, how can one seriously argue against the charter in the country where "solidarity" was founded, which showed the way to all of europe, today's understanding of rights: freedom, the rule of law and democracy. i address the polish government in warsaw, prime minister tusk: mr prime minister, your group won the elections last month because it voted for your poland, which wants this card in the european reform treaty. may the lord not disappoint those who voted for you a month ago. i demand that the government in warsaw include the charter of fundamental rights in the reform treaty, so that it also applies in my homeland. poland of solidarity, poland of europe, poland of tolerance and openness considers the charter of fundamental rights as the foundation of the reform treaty. we will not allow the right-wing conservatives to blackmail us into not introducing this card in our homeland.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that the charter of fundamental rights is an essential element for any community which wishes to operate in accordance with a world of values which derives from respect for the dignity of the human person and from which the principles of freedom, equality and solidarity are derived. i think there is no reason why any country, whether it be the united kingdom or poland, which wants to be in the community, should at the same time refuse to participate in what constitutes a principle of common action. it is a card that promises a reference to social values, to the social model of europe. it is a card that at the same time says unequivocally that in matters concerning the problems of customary culture, it is the domestic and national law that is applicable. it follows that there is no reason for any opt-out to be applied in this case and i expect that the opt-in will be applied by both countries the uk and poland .
mr. chairman, please! the debate on this report touches on many aspects and indirectly the basis for the creation of new legal norms. the president of this parliament spoke about this in august 2007 at a conference of displaced persons. he said that the right to homeland should be found in the right to dignity, and thus the right to homeland is a fundamental human right. the right to dignity is in the first article of the charter. the chairman's thesis was criticized in the polish parliament. the german confederation was sorry for the polish refugees. what if the german compassion and the peculiar perception of human dignity were extended to alsace and lorraine? will there be an eviction center or a reconciliation center on this case, too? the claim to the right to homeland in the right to dignity is a violation, as the polish parliament member karol karski said, of the axiology of human rights. an interpretation which specifies an element of the main law is permitted, but not an extension of it. the president of the european parliament referred to john paul ii. i would remind this parliament and the president that in 1965 archbishop karol wojtyla wrote publicly that the german bishops were expressly stating that the germans resettled from the west had to and wanted to realize that a young polish generation was now growing up there, and that they considered the lands handed down to their fathers to be their homelands. in this regard, no moral or legal reasoning or sentimental interpreters are needed. i think the card can get unanimous approval here. although president sarkozy recently suggested that unanimity is a denial of democracy. i hope so, mr. president, since you can't convince even the paris metro.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. mr. chairman, please! the effectiveness of the flexicurity model in the european labour market may be questionable if it is not accompanied by other actions and proposals to promote entrepreneurship and facilitate business creation, such as the establishment of european private enterprise statutes. as regards the common principles for implementing flexicurity, i would like to stress that the introduction of comprehensive legislative solutions in this area at european union level is incompatible with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. employment and social policy fall within the competence of the member states and any action by the european union in the area of flexicurity must comply with the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in article 5 of the treaty. the internal complexity of the model also does not encourage the introduction of community legislative standards and a one-dimensional approach to the matter. the conclusions of the impact assessment suggest that open coordination is the most appropriate method. this is particularly important for the new member states, which, because of their past, may face different structural employment problems. the high short-term costs associated with the introduction of the flexicurity pathways and the consequent heavy budgetary burden should not be overlooked.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the pressure for more flexible forms of employment came at a time of very high unemployment, when it was relatively easy to force a worker to accept lower employment standards for the chance of employment in general. lack of means to provide for the basic needs of the worker and his family resulted in the acceptance of even humiliation in the workplace and lack of protection against accidents, even for black labor for starvation wages. today, fortunately, the job market is changing. polish employers, who for the most part disregard the need for job security, have paid for their attitude with a shortage of workers, and poland has seen almost two million young people, often well educated, emigrate. employment flexibility, which does not take into account employment security, brings short-term benefits to employers at the expense of workers. it is good that the european parliament's draft resolution pays more attention than the european commission to the need for job security. let me remind you that studies conducted by the international labour organization confirm that employees in permanent employment are more productive. i congratulate the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! in a geographical sense, europe is well defined, we know where its borders are. in political terms, the term europe has become synonymous with the enlarging european union. on the one hand, not all european countries belong to the organization, and on the other hand, most meps in the european parliament are calling for the accession of non-european countries, such as turkey. to talk about the future of europe, we must look back at its roots and its core values. we have thousands of documents that refer to european values. but nowhere, as in the charter of fundamental rights we are discussing today, are they precisely defined. europe's roots are christian, and these fundamental values have been defined long ago. the constant attempt to redefine the obvious distorts the proportions and the ability to respond to the real problems of the old continent, such as the alarming ageing of the peoples of europe, migration, aggressive competition from asian countries, terrorism, epidemics and new diseases, and energy security.
mr. chairman, please! listening to this discussion, i get the impression that it's beautiful, it's going to be even better and it's so beautiful that it can't get any better. and in the meantime, there are a few issues that the great leaders of the european union are talking about with one voice, and it seems to be a false voice. we're dealing with a new religion, and that religion is the greenhouse effect. of course, the greenhouse effect is understood in this way to limit emissions as much as possible and to make the nations of europe compete with those who do not care about reducing emissions. but all the serious scientists today say that the greenhouse effect is a natural phenomenon that occurs cyclically in nature, and that all human activity can have an impact of a few percent at most. instead of being utopian, you guys need to get serious about energy policy, because oil is almost $100 today, and some say it's going to cost more. and the question is, why is that and who is making money?
president of the government of spain. mr president, i shall briefly make only two comments on the issues that have been raised most insistently: immigration policy and the regularisation of immigrants in spain. i am in favour of a common immigration policy for the european union as far as border control, integration and a statute for common regulation are concerned; we are far from that path, but i can assure the two members who raised the issue of one thing: when i became prime minister i found that there were 700 000 illegal immigrant workers in my country, exploited and without contributing or paying contributions, working in the informal economy, in the illegal economy. the european values are rights, legality, transparency and the rule of law; of course, i will always strive to ensure that in my country there is no one working illegally, exploited and without rights, and without contributing to the burdens of what a democratic country represents. i never will. (applause) i don't know how many of those 700,000 came through france. i do not know; what i do know is that now france and spain, after much dialogue, because there have been differences, already share a common philosophy and a common political approach, and also with the german government. because the experiences and circumstances that each country has had are very different, because of the lack of a common immigration policy. and when there is no common policy on immigration, we tend to make our problems those of france, or those of france those of spain; or those of germany those of italy; or those of italy those of germany. and that is useless, and it is contrary to the european construction. when we have a policy of shared external borders, controlling them all at once, with a policy of integration and a policy of common status, we will not have these temptations to criticize a country that faces 700 000 people working illegally to be in the legal system. the climate change. i will not insist any more, but i do not want to look back at any government, because there have been governments in my country of all colors... there is no doubt that spain has experienced great economic growth; all i know is that the government i preside over is the only one that has stopped the growth of greenhouse gas emissions: it has done so since 2006; and the one that has started the reduction, with an economic growth of 4%, and that 2006 was the first year in which the primary consumption of electricity in spain has been reduced; and that we have a will as determined as we have had in other fields of political action, where we have not wavered in making advanced laws or rights to take strong decisions on foreign policy when we have been firmly against certain actions, and that in the field of international order we will not lack the perseverance and determination to face what i have described as a great challenge and as a great opportunity: that spain is not in the places of the tail, and will not be here in the coming years, and we can make a great effort to ensure that the national policy of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, by means of alternative energy, has a great effect, and we will do a great deal to ensure that renewable energy is used in a sustainable manner. i would like to conclude by expressing my deepest thanks to the european parliament. i have felt happy, european, profoundly european, and when i leave this common european home i shall feel even more european. i wish i'd come earlier, too. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm closing the debate. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the commission statement on the economic partnership agreements.
member of the commission. mr president, i should like to thank all who contributed to this interesting debate. i am sure that we see it as an ongoing process. i am not part of it directly or personally but, for an agreement, you need goodwill on both sides and for many partners to agree. as i said in my introductory statement, we are working in a pragmatic and flexible way. those who are ready or willing to follow the same approach follow not to the detriment of the others, but for the gradual achievement which is important for all regions and for international trade as a whole. there were some questions or criticisms about the tone of the negotiations. i want to assure you that it is in a spirit of partnership. we take into account, in this spirit of partnership, the development objectives and the constraints on our partners. some questions were about goods-only deals. the stepping-stone agreements lead towards comprehensive epas and these are supportive of acp development and regional integration. so we are not losing sight of the overall picture and overall needs of our partner countries and regions. i do not want to repeat many of the points i made at the beginning, but the process continues. sometimes a deadline brings pressure to find a solution during the last few days or weeks, and we are making real progress. i quoted many names and countries where we have recently initialled stepping-stone agreements, and we will continue doing so, but our interest is really in finding solutions. processes will continue, because there is more than one stage in this situation. as i said, after 1 january, we will continue working on issues like services, investment and other trade-related areas. i believe that the general affairs and external relations council next week will support the proposal for a regulation of the community to implement the market access which has been offered to the acp. as i said, it is the best ever offer in a bilateral agreement. we are being not only open but also very constructive. the strategy the commission proposed, and i tried to describe, was fully confirmed by the council – all 27 countries – and, in this spirit of partnership and this constructive manner, we will continue. the objective is really a fully-fledged economic partnership agreement. this will be a catalyst for regional integration. once the first-step agreements are concluded, we will continue towards this objective. nobody is left out or forgotten in this process. we not only have in mind, but support very actively, the least developed countries. i think that is all i can say for now, either in response to questions or by way of confirmation, but i am sure that this house will come back to this point in the coming weeks and months, because this is also about the timing of our agreements.
i have received four motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the joint debate on the report drawn up by mr paolo costa on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/49/ec on the safety of community railways (com ((2006) 0784 - c6-0493/2006 - 2006/0272cod)) (a6-0346/2007), the report drawn up by mr josu ortuondo larrea on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of the community rail system (recast) (com ((2006) 0783 - c6-0474/2006 - 2006/0273cod)) (a6-0453/2007), and the report drawn up by mr paolo costa on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the safety of the community railways (com ((2006) 0784 - c6-0493/2006 - 2006/0272cod)) (a6-0476-07/2007)).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the amendment of the community railway safety directive should support efforts to establish a common market for rail transport services. hence the need to establish a common framework for railway safety. the commission should be empowered to adapt and adopt common security measures and common security objectives. and also to introduce a uniform certification system. to achieve this, it is first necessary to check the existing requirements and the safety situation in the member states and to ensure that the current level of safety of the rail system is not reduced in any country. it is also necessary to identify priority areas where safety needs to be further improved. the safety certificate is intended to provide evidence that the railway undertaking has established a safety management system to oversee the provision of transport services on the european network. rolling stock authorised for placing in service in one member state must be so authorised in other member states, provided that, of course, the requirement to have such authorisation is applicable in the member state concerned. every time a rolling stock is put into service, a legal entity responsible for its maintenance is to be designated, which is what this directive says and which is very important. such entity may be the railway undertaking, the subcontractor or the vehicle owner. and that's what the service market is looking for. this initiative will make rail transport more competitive and will help to preserve jobs in the sector. the amendment of this directive is highly anticipated, especially for the new member states. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur.
mr. chairman, please! the changing conditions in which the economy operates require continuous changes, inter alia, in railway operations, including in the field of railway safety. hence the need to adapt the rules to life. changes such as the enlargement of the schengen area to include a number of countries with different technical railway equipment, the abolition of railway monopolies in a number of countries, the creation of network operators and transport companies of regional and international importance require clear clarification of concepts and principles of conduct relating to ensuring safety within the union. this will allow for a broad alignment of national legislation. in this respect, the proposals contained in mr costa's report are an added value. the simplification changes proposed by mr costa, such as the transfer of article 14 of annex vii to the interoperability directive, significantly improve the readability of the directive. it is appropriate to establish a more transparent responsibility for safety. i would like to thank mr paolo costa for his contribution to the report.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the amendments to the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to the pursuit of television broadcasting activities are intended to ensure that providers of on-demand audiovisual media services in the member states can fully benefit from the internal market by applying the principle of country-of-origin regulation. the amendment of the directive opens up the current european union legislation to the latest technological advances. the european commission proposal differentiates between linear services, i.e. transmission via traditional television, the internet or mobile television, which continuously transmit content to the viewer according to a fixed schedule, and non-linear services similar to television, which are downloaded from the network on demand. maintaining the 'television without frontiers' directive in its current form would exacerbate unjustified differences in the regulatory treatment of different forms of distribution of identical or similar media content. the current rules on television should continue to apply to linear services, while for non-linear services, minimum, basic rules should be established, for example on the protection of minors, the prohibition of incitement to racial hatred or the prevention of crypto-advertising. the proposed amendment takes these conditions into account and the uen political group will therefore vote in favour of the proposal.
mr. chairman, please! yesterday, a demonstration of polish fishermen took place in front of the european commission in brussels, protesting against the commission's unfair and discriminatory actions against polish fisheries. the problem is the ban on cod fishing in the baltic, which is the main source of income for polish fishermen. a fishing ban is a penalty imposed by the european commission for exceeding the annual catch limit for this fish. in addition, the commission threatened that poland might not receive a catch limit at all or that it would be reduced in 2008, which would probably lead to the bankruptcy of the polish fisheries. the allocated limits are very restrictive and are based on incomplete and falsified data on baltic cod stocks. in this context, the question arises why controls only affected poland, when my country has demanded detailed controls of fishing in all countries. german, swedish and danish fishermen also exceed the limits. is the commissioner going to use polish fishermen as scapegoats for borg, or is the european commission trying to eliminate competition? i support the protest because the word equality has not been included in the eu dictionary.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to ask you to look into the case of an egyptian woman, shadia nagui ibrahim, who was sentenced to three years in prison for allegedly falsely claiming to be a christian when she got married. she told the truth because she is a christian. she belongs to the coptic church, and she didn't know that her father, also a coptic christian, had once converted to islam and then returned to the coptic faith. according to egyptian law, shadia nagui ibrahim is a muslim because her father was a muslim. faith is determined by one's own convictions, not by the position of government or the judiciary. if egypt is to be considered a civilized state, it must change its intolerant anti-christian laws.
thank you very much, madam ambassador. unfortunately, we have no more time to continue this item of business.
i understand the bitterness. i took over the proceedings two minutes ago, but i've been informed that unfortunately we have very little time, we have to finish the proceedings at midnight, and there are still many items on the agenda. i'm sorry about that.
the next item is the report by gisela kallenbach, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 91/477/eec on controls of the acquisition and possession of weapons (com ((2006) 0093 - c6-0081/2006 - 2006/0031 (cod)) (a6-0276/2007).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. guns are not ordinary products. tragic events, whether in erfurt, antwerp or helsinki, have made us aware of the potential danger posed by weapons to the safety of our citizens and especially to children. our requirements for the production, sale and possession of weapons must therefore be strict. although our european law expressly allows member states to go beyond the commonly agreed level of protection, i am very grateful that parliament is seeking to significantly strengthen the security situation as far as weapons in europe are concerned. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, mrs kallenbach, and the chairman of that committee, mrs mccarthy. i would like to thank you both very much for your excellent cooperation. i would like to recall the background to today's decision. the starting point was the necessary change in our law to make it possible to ratify the un arms protocol. it was only after that that a comprehensive change in european gun laws was planned. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we do not attack the different traditions and cultural circumstances in our member states, but respect the fact that there are long and very different traditions concerning hunters, sports shooters and gun collectors. a european firearms passport will soon facilitate cross-border travel and provide a secure basis for cross-border encounters between hunters and marksmen. we have also decided to ensure that weapons are properly labelled and registered, so that crossborder trade and transport of weapons in the internal market is possible, but also traceable and therefore safer. an important innovation is the registration of all weapons in personal possession. we need to know who has what weapons. with this report, we are putting an additional bar on the illegal possession of or trade in arms. the data will be kept for 20 years to ensure the traceability of weapons for a sufficient period. that is in every respect welcome. however, the commission considers it appropriate at this point to clarify in a statement our understanding of the new recital 9e to the data protection directive. we have also decided that the acquisition of weapons by minors under 18 years of age should be prohibited in future. europe is sending a clear message: guns are not for young people! of course, the fact remains that sports shooters and hunters, even if they are not yet 18 years old, can pursue their hobby, but only under the supervision of adults, such as coaches or parents. too much bad luck has happened with guns in the hands of teenagers. i hope that the new regulation will help to avoid further accidents and raise awareness of the need to handle weapons with special care, especially among young sports shooters or hunters. we were faced with the fact that technology and criminal energy in europe had led to a problem that had never been seen before: i mean the conversion of weapons that are not dangerous in themselves into sharp weapons. mrs mccarthy was the first to draw attention to this problem. in fact, it was a simple circumvention of the law. but that's over now, too. we will have to deal even more intensively with the problem of firearms reproductions in the next two years, in order to avoid any security gaps. the same is true of the question of how to disarm firearms in the most effective way. you also know that the commission has advocated the introduction of sanctions in european law, since the european court of justice has clearly ruled on this issue. the commission acknowledges, however, that there is a reference to these criminal sanctions and to the un protocol in recital 8. this is important because compliance with article 5 of the un protocol necessarily requires sanctions by member states. i am confident that the member states will also provide for this in their national legislation. a commission statement on this subject is also available in the secretariat-general of the parliament (see 'commission statement appended to debate'). i should like to take this opportunity to thank mr alvaro in particular for his support. europe is giving itself a modern right to bear arms. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. we are raising our common european protection requirements. it is now up to the member states to recognize the signs of the times and to develop the rules in detail in accordance with their own national conditions. so if anyone thinks that stricter rules are right and necessary at national level, he has my full personal support and i can only urge him to do so! i am counting on your colleagues in the national parliaments to make a clear decision on arms. it's always got to be, "stay ahead of the curve". today's decision paves the way for this and i thank you for it. commission declarations appended to debate the commission welcomes the rapid adoption of the council directive amending directive 91/477 on the control of the acquisition and possession of weapons, but regrets that the council opposed its initial proposal on article 16 on criminal sanctions. the commission notes that the community has competence to establish criminal sanctions in accordance with article 5 of the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. accordingly, the commission considers that any decision to ratify the protocol would have to be accompanied by a declaration of competence which correctly reflects the scope of the community's competence. the commission reserves its institutional rights in this regard.' 2) draft declaration on data protection the commission notes that the processing of personal data under this directive is subject to compliance with directive 95/46/ec and cannot prejudice the level of protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data under the provisions of community and national law, and in particular does not alter the obligations and rights set out in directive 95/46/ec. in this respect, the need to extend the minimum period during which the registers containing information on the owners of weapons are kept from ten to twenty years should be justified. the commission is convinced that such processing of personal data is justified in view of both the dangerous nature and longevity of such weapons and their possible misuse for criminal purposes, which therefore requires the proper tracing of both firearms and their owners. the commission further notes that, in view of the purposes of this directive, and in accordance with the requirements of directive 95/46/ec, access to the centralised data filing system, or the system guaranteeing access to non-centralised filing systems, should only be available to police and judicial authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences.'
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. gun control is of the utmost importance if we are to ensure the safety of the citizens of europe. of course, the provisions must not unduly restrict the right of citizens to ensure their security on their property or to protect themselves when performing important public functions during or after their completion. citizens also have the right to own a weapon that is a family memento or is intended for sporting or recreational purposes. it's part of the european tradition. any restrictions should be based on mental health and should be applied to persons suspected of committing a crime with a criminal record. i also believe that those who publicly advocate fascism, radical communism and islamic extremism should be included in such restrictions. today, with technology available to everyone in europe, any good craftsman can make a makeshift firearm in a relatively short time. therefore, excessive restrictive measures will not prevent criminal gun ownership and will unduly interfere with civil rights, including the right of defence. the need to tighten borders is also growing, as illegal immigrants continue to enter europe. guns are even easier to smuggle.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 29 november 2007.
the next item is the report drawn up by mr paolo costa on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism on a new european tourism policy: towards a stronger partnership for tourism in europe [2006/2129 (ini) ] (a6-0399/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. when thomas cook opened the first tourist office in europe in 1841, he could not have imagined that 166 years later, some 5% of the income of european countries would come directly from tourism. i'd add that, when you factor in the links to other sectors, that's now over 11% of gdp and over 25 million jobs. i would therefore like to thank mr paolo costa for his report on this very dynamic sector of the economy. we know that eu regulations do not directly cover tourism, but the union's coordinating and stimulating role, showing europe as a very attractive and diverse tourist area, is enormous. this applies to both intra-eu tourism and to arrivals and departures from non-eu countries. these issues are also of great importance for the new member states, including poland. the tourist value of these areas, which until recently were behind the iron curtain, is only now being discovered by many. in this context, actions by national, regional and local authorities to promote tourism, including agricultural tourism, tourism showcasing europe's cultural heritage, spa or pilgrimage tourism, and eco-tourism exploring the beauty of nature, are important. i am pleased that the problems of disabled and elderly tourism, which are the result of changes in the demographic structure of our society, have been taken into account, albeit in a rather modest way. the cohesion fund should therefore be used rationally to support the development of infrastructure, especially transport. the european regional development fund may also be used to support information and communication technologies, including the internet, as well as cross-border cooperation in the broad field of tourism. in addition, the european social fund should be used to finance training programmes in this sector. i'd like to say, in closing, that standards are the foundation of success in this subject. no one cares about quality these days. a tourist who is disappointed with the level of transportation or the hotel or the poor restaurant will never visit this place again. you can only get fooled once.
madam president! we do not deal with tourism very often in the european parliament, which is why i have such great respect for the rapporteur, mr costa. a lot of good work. the report's particular strengths are the balanced approach to tourism, the consideration of the aspect of enhancing european cohesion and quality of life, and the emphasis on the importance of accessibility of tourism services. the visa policy that is being discussed here is, in my view, a crucial issue and we should pay a lot of attention to monitoring the issuing of visas and the functioning of border crossing points in the areas of the new schengen member states. as regards the issue of visas to drivers, including coach drivers, and touring pilots, there are concerns from ukraine and russia, and commissioner barrot received yesterday the president of the international road transport association of ukraine, who expressed these concerns. i know the position, i personally addressed commissioner frattini a month ago, and so far no response. i therefore consider this matter to be important and it is essential that we and the commission focus on monitoring the implementation of the visa policy.
madam president! we're here today to discuss the financial support for lebanon. the country is in the midst of a deep political and economic crisis, the worst since the end of the war in 1990. we have heard many times in the european parliament from independent experts on the middle east that the european union should actively support the democratic authorities in lebanon. this is a very important time for this country, a time when the last demons of war have a chance to go down in history. but there is a risk that all the conflicts that have been postponed may start again. we should therefore use the instruments at our disposal to play an active role as one of the mediators in the solution of lebanon's internal problems. the israeli-lebanese conflict has left the country devastated and its infrastructure struggling to rebuild after 20 years of war. it also had a negative impact on social relations in lebanon. it has led to the strengthening of radical forces, and has plunged lebanon back into intra-communal conflict. lebanon needs time to regain its stability, it needs mediation between all parties. the financial support provided by the european union, as well as by other countries and institutions, is an opportunity for the country to return to the path of reform, which is certainly slow, but which leads to the construction of a politically, economically and socially stable state. i welcome the commission's initiative and the fact that the issue of macrofinancial assistance has been understood by the members of parliament. we are sending a signal to the lebanese that they can be sure that they have a partner in the european union. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for his skillful attempt to involve parliament in the decision-making process on aid to lebanon. the last sentence. the reconstruction of lebanon is as much in the interest of the lebanese themselves as it is in the interest of us europeans.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. speaking on behalf of the uen group in the debate on the impact of global trade on climate change, i would like to draw attention to the following points. first, the european union, as the world leader in the fight against climate change, wants global greenhouse gas emissions to be cut by 25-40% by 2020. however, it should be borne in mind that if this emission reduction is to be achieved mainly by the european union's actions with little involvement from other countries in the world, it could pose serious risks to the economic development of the european union itself. second, operators in europe who are subject to various restrictions in order to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions are no longer competitive with operators in countries where such restrictions are not applied. many industries and manufacturing sectors in europe have been eliminated as a result of unequal competition with producers in south-east asia or south america. thirdly, with the introduction of restrictions in europe on excessive greenhouse gas emissions, there are processes of relocation of production outside europe where such restrictions do not exist. this means the permanent elimination of jobs in the european union. fourthly, if global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not reached and the european union wants to make progress on its own, it is necessary to introduce border countervailing taxes, especially in sectors where competition is already seriously distorted by not including environmental taxes in the cost of production. it is also necessary that the so-called climate dimension of trade be included, wherever possible, in bilateral economic cooperation agreements concluded between the european union and third countries. the same arrangements should apply to projects supported by the european investment bank, as well as to projects of various types supported by national export credit insurance agencies or direct investments.
mr. chairman, please! audits and controls of union funds in the member states are one of the basic requirements for the efficient and transparent management of community budgetary resources. however, the latest projects prepared by the european commission, which could hit hard at the beneficiaries of eu funds, are worrying. the commission wants to tighten up procedures and punish, often without objective reasons, irregularities in tenders. i refer to the document 'guidelines for the determination of financial corrections for expenditure under the structural funds (...) ' the eu's penalties project is particularly dangerous for local and regional authorities. it cannot be that the union, as has been said before, is financing the construction of golf courses in the countries of the old 15, and at the same time is developing a system of sanctions and penalties which will hit the less developed countries of europe, including poland.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his contribution to the development of a project so important for the future of the european union. it must be borne in mind that the rome convention is the only legal instrument in the field of private international law at community level which currently takes the form of an international treaty. it requires improvement taking into account the current and future needs of the internal market of the european union. the proposed regulation is therefore a highly sensitive policy issue, in particular as regards consumer protection and the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to offer their products and services online. the report sought to strike a balance between the protection of consumers and the facilitation of the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union's common market. the important issue of standardising the terms and conditions for concluding contracts for internet transactions was also raised. i agree that the european commission should and has done the right thing in this area and i welcome the compromise reached on this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again and support the adoption of the regulation.
mr. chairman, please! i voted today to adopt a resolution on the situation in georgia. i express my deep concern at the recent events in tbilisi and the violence involving the security forces. the situation in the region requires dialogue between all parties, including the opposition. the international community, including the european union and the russian federation, should do everything possible to ensure that the next elections in georgia are held in a democratic manner, with respect for human rights and media freedom. the european parliament has also called for the release of all political prisoners in georgia, including the former president of georgia, who was detained in the country for more than a year. mr. chairman, i think you mispronounced my name at the beginning, hence the long introduction. i didn't know if i was supposed to be on yet.
in writing. mr president, i am voting in favour of the report by mrs giseli kallenbach on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 91/477/eec on controls of the acquisition and possession of weapons (com ((2006) 0093 c6-0081/2006 2006/0031 (cod)). i agree with the statement that the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and components and ammunition endangers the security of all eu citizens. the report rightly notes that small arms are a tool of violence in society because they are available, cheap, portable and easy to use. the report also rightly emphasises the need to include online trade and the sharing of online platforms used for arms trading in the scope of the directive.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the re-adoption of the charter in its new form so that it will become binding on the european institutions. my socialist party in poland and europe strongly supports the adoption of the charter, and so do i. the charter is a key instrument in our union, giving rights to all citizens of the union – individual rights as well as rights linked to citizenship. by this charter we are plugging a major gap. an opt-out is not a real opt-out as the charter remains binding on the institutions and on community law, even if some countries still hope that it is not going to affect domestic law. the court of justice will ensure that the charter is applied correctly. the proclamation of the revised charter and the reference in the new treaty will make the european union stronger as a common space of common values and common rights. that is why i still hope that the charter will apply to all 27 member states, without exception – including in first place my home country, poland.
in writing. i vote in favour of the report by mrs jo leinen on the approval by the european parliament of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i believe that the charter of fundamental rights of the european union should be accepted without reservations, including by my country, poland. the charter is intended to become a legally binding instrument on an equal footing with the treaties when the new reform treaty enters into force. this is important from the point of view of citizens, and it also provides an incentive to control the actions of the eu institutions where member states have granted them the right to act. every citizen will be able to rely directly on the card and assert his or her rights under eu law before the courts of the union.
in writing. the charter of fundamental rights complicates the system of protection of fundamental rights in europe. makes it even less understandable to the public. these are the doubts of many europeans. these are the reasons why two member states have opted for protocols to protect against unexpected card activity. these are the reasons why i voted against the leinen report.
mr. chairman, please! the misuse of pesticides and inadequate waste management have contributed to the degradation of soils and have created a threat to our citizens. providing them and future generations with the ability to produce healthy food should be our top priority. the solutions proposed, for example, in the report by mrs cristina gutiérrez-cortines, such as the creation in each member state of a list of contaminated sites and a strategy for the remediation of these sites, are certainly a step in the right direction and i hope that more and more will follow. however, chemical pollution and its remediation are not the end of the story. alongside this, there is the new and even more serious problem of increasing the production of genetically modified food, which is biological contamination. i can assure the members that gmos are far more dangerous than chemical contamination. so, as we fight chemical pollution, we must also fight biological pollution. the union must say 'no' to the introduction of genetically modified organisms into production.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to comment on the russian elections, referring to two speeches by my colleagues. it was like that old joke about how any american could choose any car they wanted, as long as it was a black ford. but i think that many european politicians are relieved that there is some continuity, that there is still someone to talk to in russia. i understand the economic interests of certain countries, especially large eu member states, certain lobbies and certain economic sectors, but our tacit agreement to the violation of human rights in russia, and the european union's deafness and blindness only encourage the russian authorities to arrest more and more kasparovs. the more the eu is silent about what is happening in russia, the less we talk about it, the more repressive the policy in that country is, and so i propose that we speak out about what is happening in russia, and it's bad.
mr. chairman, please! the recent parliamentary elections in russia are hardly anything but a grim joke about democracy. particularly disturbing are the results in the chechen district, where attendance and support for united russia was 99%. the chechens are a symptomatic example. the people of this country have no reason to vote for the puntin team. the enormity of the suffering she caused has been told here many times. nearly 100% turnout and support for the ruling party is unheard of in any democratic country. but in its vivid form, it resembles the outcome of elections in totalitarian states. there's more to the analogy. the elections have shown that there is no place for the opposition in russia. freedom of speech is restricted, the media is controlled by the state. the political prisoner category is back. they are the ones who dare to speak out against the regime, and democracy becomes a facade behind which a crystal-clear democrat - putin - can do whatever he wants.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to remind you that on 5 december, the 140th anniversary of the birth of the great polish and european head of state marshal józef piłsudski was celebrated. this charismatic figure is not only a great heroic commander, but above all an authentic statesman, who made an outstanding contribution to the rebirth of the polish state. under his command, the polish army in 1920 stopped the bolsheviks' march to conquer all of europe. he was the one who advocated living in peace and harmony with his neighbors while respecting their full sovereignty. he also said: "poland faces the big question of whether it should be a state equal to the great powers of the world, or a small state in need of the protection of the powerful". poland has not yet answered this question, it has yet to pass this test of its strength. in this regard, we have a great challenge ahead of us, one that all of us, the modern generation, must face. these words are still relevant today, when poland is one of the 27 countries of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! today, at the beginning of the third millennium before our world, the unsolved problems of the past continue to loom large, and new challenges are emerging alongside them. we can be proud that the european union is a force for change, that human rights, freedom, democracy, tolerance, free markets, improved living standards and care for the environment are the values we all hold dearest. to be able to act effectively to achieve these ideas, these objectives, our union must be efficient and effective. we are closing a stage of work, we are adopting a reform treaty, the lisbon treaty. that's very good, but life throws us new challenges. in implementing all these treaty provisions, in improving the functioning of the union and its institutions, we must and we want to discuss the future, a better future for europe for our member states... (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the uen group, i would like to congratulate mr krahmer on the quality of his report. we are continuing our work on a directive which is of great importance for the whole ecosystem, including for the improvement of the health of europeans and the wider world. nor can the economic aspect of these provisions be concealed. the aim should therefore be to find a compromise that will allow member states to implement effectively the parameters adopted for the emission ceilings for dust and gases polluting the air. i am referring to the concentrations of pm2.5 and pm10, gases: carbon dioxide and oxide, sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ozone, benzene, volatile organic compounds, and lead. so we're going to need reliable, systematic monitoring. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. substantial changes in the techniques and organisation of land, air and water transport will be necessary. these and other costs must be borne, it is true. but it is also true that not all countries are able to do this so rigorously in the suggested relatively short time frame without obvious economic losses. this is particularly true of the new member states, including poland, which is doing a great deal in this area. finally, i would like to stress that it is also important that the actions undertaken by the union find followers elsewhere, especially in the united states, china, russia, japan and brazil. the air is common to the whole world.
mr. chairman, please! today, for the second time, the european parliament is considering a draft directive on ambient air quality. the directive aims, among other things, to reduce the amount of airborne dust particles we inhale to between 2.5 and 10 micrometres in the coming years. the scientists warn that the very small particles covered by the directive are the greatest threat to human life. the compromise reached between parliament and the european council has made concessions to the council, which is in favour of less restrictive rules. i hope that the measures envisaged in this directive will not prove insufficient and that in 2013, when the european commission re-examines the problem, more ambitious targets will be adopted, as the health of present and future generations is at stake. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work and to remind him that prevention is better than cure.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament and council directive on clean air quality is of great importance for the health of europe's citizens, especially since substances emitted by industry, transport and power plants can be transported over long distances, such as pollen and sulphur, nitrogen and lead oxides. the directive sets emission limits for these pollutants and emphasises the principle of reducing emissions at source. however, the conditions for meeting these requirements are different. in zones and agglomerations with a high number of polluting entities, such as coal-fired furnaces, plants with old technologies, it takes time and a lot of money to comply with the requirements of the directive. therefore, in justified cases, in accordance with amendment no 2, the deadline for the introduction of the requirements of the directive should be postponed. the directive rightly emphasises the need to monitor pollutant emissions, which is of great importance in reducing pollution, including transboundary pollution. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr krahmer.
member of the commission. mr president, a number of key elements have been included in the overall compromise package that is now proposed. most importantly, it contains the following elements:- the time extension option for pm10 is kept at the level of the common position; there can be no delay in taking the measures and a single step approach will reduce the administrative burden;- standards for particulate matter pm10 are unchanged in accordance with the original commission proposal;- a realistic and timely annual pm2.5 target and a limit value set at 25 µg per cubic metre to be achieved at 2010 and 2015 respectively;- an indicative limit value for 2020 that adds to the ambitious pm2.5 agenda for the mandatory review in 2013;- a legally binding exposure concentration obligation in 2015 that complements the exposure reduction target in triggering prompt measures that are expected to provide the maximum public health benefit; and- a commission declaration on the progress in developing the community measures at source. the new recital 15 also strengthens the determination of the two co-legislators to consider as a matter of priority the legislative proposals put forward by the commission to address emission at source at community level. i know that these elements were all-important to parliament at first reading and in the committee this time round. i believe that the proposed current compromise will satisfy parliament as important ground was won on the key principle of the ambitious yet realistic ambient air quality standard setting, with a clear roadmap including the adoption of the necessary community measures and a well-defined review in 2013. i am also particularly pleased to note the importance given by both parliament and the council to finding a compromise in this directive. the resulting compromise, as well as the demonstrated resolve, enables the european union to take the effective next steps in ensuring healthier air for its citizens. to conclude, the commission is very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. it can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full. i wish to thank and to congratulate, once more, the rapporteur, mr krahmer, for all his efforts to reach an agreement at second reading.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 11 december 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. the weight of the good quality air around us need not be explained or emphasised. the current priority approach to european policy focusing on the rapid and ambitious introduction of coherent and uniform legislation to guarantee air quality is justified. the proposal for a directive under discussion today combines and improves existing european legislation into one coherent proposal. after analysing the proposals currently contained in it, it can be safely concluded that the compromise package approved by the ppe-de, pse and alde groups fully reflects the interests of all the actors involved, who are directly concerned by the directive. this is a balanced proposal for member states that will be burdened with its provisions, while improving europe's air quality and, in the longer term, significantly reducing pm. in addition to very detailed references to individual pm10,2.5 targets, i think it is very important to focus on the provisions on flexibility in reaching the limit values for member states. it is worth noting here that member states already have very great difficulties in complying with existing provisions on improving air quality. it is also important to put the emphasis on long-term measures for air quality. experience has shown that short-term measures are often not as effective as long-term measures. member states should be encouraged to apply long-term air pollution control policies on a voluntary basis.
the next item is the report by mrs juknevičienė, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on population and housing censuses (com (2007) 0069 - c6-0078/2007 - 2007/0032 (cod)) (a6-0471/2007).
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the draft regulation on the population and housing censuses is a document of great importance. data from the population and housing censuses provide an opportunity to develop development strategies and interventions in a rational way. that is why it is so important that they are transparent and comparable. the community's solutions will then be based on real, well-studied phenomena. comparability is not only about well-defined data, but also about the exact time periods in which they are collected. therefore, a clear timetable for data collection, updating, correction and publication is important and has been clearly indicated in the document and amendments. the way in which data on local communities are collected is a major issue. i support the amendment to define this case separately. i also support the amendment to include environmental policies alongside regional policies. periodic statistical surveys of family, social, economic and housing characteristics are undoubtedly needed, particularly in view of the demographic and social problems facing europe. i therefore consider it unjustified to delete the topics recommended for geographical levels, and in particular non-derivative topics such as the location of schools and universities, the means of transport to work or school, the distance to work or school, the number of children born alive, the type of economic activity, the period of unemployment, the main source of income, income, living conditions or disability, which determine the actual living conditions of families. it is important to stress that the text respects national laws on the protection of personal data, and the principle of subsidiarity has been rightly respected in this area. i congratulate ms juknevičienė on her diligent work on the draft report.
i want to inform you that we have been joined in our discussion by a member of parliament who has only just become a full member of the house, mr krzysztof hołowczyc, a very well-known figure in poland. welcome to the club, mr. ambassador. please familiarize yourself with the procedures. the mp is a rally driver, a man very well known in poland, on saturday he won the legendary episode of the barbórka rally. congratulations from the bottom of my heart! but we're playing a different sport here, so please move quickly, mr. postman.
mr. chairman, please! in taking part in the debate on toy safety, i would like to draw attention to a few more general issues. first, the trade liberalisation of the world trade organisation, which makes the european market increasingly accessible, brings not only benefits to consumers in the form of lower prices for many goods, but also dangers, as illustrated by the case of dangerous toys we are discussing today. second, the south east asian countries are competitive on the european market because they do not cover the full cost of production of the products. for example, they often do not pay environmental, labor, or product safety costs. thirdly, it is therefore necessary that the consumer and competition authorities in the european union react more quickly and effectively to such situations and remove from the market not only dangerous products but also their manufacturers or importers, using the instruments at their disposal. fourthly, in the ongoing wto negotiations on the extension of access to the european market, the european union must demand that third countries respect the rules of fair competition and, in particular, that the full cost of production calculated in accordance with european standards be taken into account in the prices of products.
mr. chairman, please! one of the main problems on the wine market is the increase in wine imports from third countries. you have to ask yourself if they have better wine. no, they usually have wine of the same quality, but at a much lower price. i represent a country where wine is the main drink. the people of my country are interested in two things: price and quality. the label that identifies the brand is of less importance, and the price of the label is often higher than the price of the quality of the wine. promoting yourself isn't gonna do anything. it will not win the promotion of a customer who also looks at the price in the countries of the old union. i've seen it in shops in brussels. it was very good that the name "fruit wine" was allowed to remain. it's a segment of the traditional market that doesn't compete with the vintage market. you can't, as with the definition of vodka, destroy the traditions of individual countries, brands and quality just because the wine sector is in trouble.
madam president! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all my colleagues on the committee on agriculture for the enormous work they have done to reach a consensus on a subject as important and as complex as wine market reform. while we all, i think, agree that in the face of globalization and trade liberalization, changes in the sector are necessary, we have not always had the same views on how to implement these changes. all the more reason to consider that agreement on matters of key importance to wine producers is a common success, a success which takes account of the needs and conditions of the various regions of the community, which are characterised by different natural environments, climates and production methods. however, i would like to draw particular attention to the amendment allowing member states to use the name 'vino' not only for grape wines. the fruit wine tradition in some regions of europe dates back as far as the 12th century and is part of our common cultural heritage. therefore, no confusing changes should be made to the labelling of fruit wine. fruit wine such as apple or cranberry is marketed as fruit wine or wine with the name of the fruit used and has been established on the european market for many years. i am pleased that the provision on fruit wine has been maintained.
madam president! the overarching objective of the reform should be to achieve sustainability and improve the competitiveness of the wine sector in the union. at the same time, the image of a european wine of renown and centuries-old tradition must be strengthened so that it does not lose out to competition from wines from the so-called new world. the budget allocated to this market should be better used. instead of distillation, european wine should be promoted in order to recover lost markets and win new ones. i would also like to mention three important points. first, the status quo should be maintained as regards the possibility of using sugar enrichment. secondly, the case of fruit wine, here too the status quo should be maintained and therefore the possibility of using the term 'wine' in the labelling of fruit wines should be left open. thirdly, the de minimis limit should be raised to, for example, fifty thousand hectolitres, which will help to develop local wine production in countries with low wine production by activating it. this change will not affect the community wine market in any way.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. i am one of the members of the uen group who support mr mulder's report. the report is drawn up with the aim of ensuring that the principle of interdependence and the controls it entails do not lead to unjustified harm to farmers. farming is not just an economic activity, but a specific social mission. the subsidies linked to the fulfilment of a number of environmental conditions serve not only farmers but the whole of society. this general social significance of subsidies should always be emphasized and explained, because a large part of society does not know about it. and, most importantly, we demand interdependence from our farmers, we put conditions on them, we demand the same conditions from those who export their agricultural products to europe. in particular, animal welfare requirements should be applied to imports without exception. there are both humanitarian and economic reasons for this.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop. all agricultural activities and production should comply with environmental protection, safety and quality requirements and animal welfare requirements. mr mulder's report contains many important proposals in this area. i would ask the commissioner to draw particular attention to four amendments: nos 19, 26, 27 and 29. in order to allow for the proper implementation of the cross-compliance system in the new member states, taking into account societal expectations, it should be introduced gradually. the full scope of the requirements should only cover these countries when full direct payments are achieved, i.e. in 2013. we must remember that the financial perspective for 2007-13 is for this adjustment of farms, for this investment. commissioner, the requirements, the standards set for our farmers are more restrictive than in third countries. we should support them and protect them from unfair competition. imported products should be subject to the same standards in the production process as union products.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank the members very much for all their contributions to this debate. you will know that cutting red tape, and making things more simple, have been at the top of this commission’s agenda from the very beginning. that was why, when we opened this debate on cross-compliance, we commissioned from rambøll management a report on simplifying the cap that was specifically linked to cross-compliance. it is a limited study which only covers five different member states, but it is very interesting and i will supply you with a copy. it shows, as mr graefe zu baringdorf rightly says, that there is a huge difference between member states. the way in which the cross-compliance system is implemented in member states is different. so, as was rightly said, the role of the advisory system is crucial. i think we should use this study for further discussions, within the health check, on what we can do to simplify the cross-compliance system without watering down the ideas underlying it. this is a first step, along with the discussion in council and the mulder report, but it is not the final step. let us continue with the health check to see what might be done, and use all the available information. this report will be worth looking into to see what can be done, what member states can do, and how member states can define best practice among themselves, in order to find a solution in which there is a level playing field. thank you for the discussion. i am sure we will return to this matter again.
in writing. i welcome the delay in introducing costly interdependence requirements for the new member states (npc, eu-10). it's justified. these countries do not receive the full direct payments, which already account for the largest share of all agricultural expenditure in the european union. the extension of the possibility for the new member states to apply the single area payment (saps) from 2010 until the end of 2013 is also welcomed. this will avoid an unnecessary and heavy financial burden on the npcs for the introduction of the single payment scheme (sps). these good guidelines, however, cannot hide the dramatic situation in the distribution of funds between the new and the old member states. npcs, according to the latest available data (2005), received €1.5 billion in direct payments, i.e. 21 times less than the old member states (spc, eu-15) - while they had only 2.4 times fewer beneficiaries (2.0 and 4.9 million respectively). these huge differences are also reflected in the average payment received by the beneficiary - for the npc it was €723 and for the spc €6327, almost nine times more! the continued discrimination against npcs is not only damaging to farmers in these countries, but is compromising the essence of the common agricultural policy (cap) and agricultural development throughout the european union!
in writing. i am voting in favour of the report by mr paolo costa on the amendments to the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the ec and morocco. the proposal concerns a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol amending the agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco on certain aspects of air services to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union. the protocol provides for the necessary amendments to the bilateral air service agreements concluded between the kingdom of morocco and the republic of bulgaria and romania, consequent on the accession of those countries to the european union. both bulgaria and romania concluded an air communication agreement with the kingdom of morocco in 1966 and 1971 respectively, while the european community concluded a horizontal agreement in december 2006. it is therefore appropriate to align the agreements to community law and to allow both new member states to accede to the horizontal agreement.
in writing. the european parliament was asked for its opinion on the continued application of the transitional vat rate arrangements in the context of the debates on this subject, and we are voting on its opinion today. although it is a bit late, as we know that the european union has already decided to continue to apply the preferential vat rates after 1 january 2008, i think it is a very important opinion. of course, for the member states that joined the union in 2004, this is a very good decision, which we broadly support. parliament's opinion on this matter is unequivocal and favours the maintenance of certain transitional provisions on vat rates. this decision deserves broad support.
in writing. madam president, artemis is the first of four proposed joint ventures (alongside clean sky, eniac and innovative medicine) which share a common purpose and a common rationale, and even a common seat in brussels, which remains the common capital of the flemish and walloon states. the european parliament's committee on budgets has expressed its support for the four new institutions envisaged under the 7th framework programme, in the hope that the public-private partnership model envisaged will prove more realistic than that of the galileo programme. the timeframe and budget of artemis and the other joint undertakings (2008-2013) diverge from the funding standard, i.e. the seven-year financial perspective 2007-2013, which may give rise to some problems in the future. we note the relatively low share of administrative costs (eur 84 million in 2008-17) in the total cost of the four joint ventures, around 3.5%, which is an additional argument. the question of the multiplication of institutions within the european union remains open, however, and does not concern only the institutional set-up of the seventh framework programme.
in writing. the topic of innovative medicines is particularly close to my heart, as i am actively involved in helping children in poland suffering from rare genetic diseases. unfortunately, these children have no health care program, and the medicines they need are too expensive. in most eu countries, medicines needed to keep children alive and give them a chance to live a nearly normal life are reimbursed. as a member of the european parliament, i am aware of the importance of a european approach to the whole question of medicines, their innovation, the union's support for research programmes, scientists, the encouragement of pharmaceutical companies to carry out research into new medicines. i think mrs grossetête's report is very important. i agree that the union needs to move towards a new, more efficient way of managing research and innovation, which contributes to the economic development of our continent, bringing relief and often saving the lives of our citizens. the european commission's proposal to set up joint technology initiatives will harmonise and simplify project funding. as regards research programmes on the innovation of medicines, smes, universities, patients, hospitals and the pharmaceutical industry should be involved in order to make medicines more reliable, cheaper and more accessible. the public-private partnerships proposed by the commission are therefore a very good solution, as they represent a new alternative for the pharmaceutical research sector.
in writing. only in three countries in the world - china, the usa and russia - do all eu member states have their own diplomatic and consular representations. in some places visited by tourists, there are no such offices at all. the commission's initiative, according to which every european citizen is entitled to diplomatic and consular protection by any member state having an establishment in a third country under the same conditions as the nationals of that state, makes sense only in the absence of an embassy or diplomatic establishment of one of the member states in a third country. and that's the solution i support. unfortunately, because of the second part of the motion for a resolution, i had to vote against it, because practical mutual diplomatic and consular assistance cannot, in its far-reaching aims, take over the prerogatives of any member state. and unfortunately, that is what the draft resolution is aiming at.
in writing. i abstained on the question of diplomatic and consular protection for citizens of the european union. for obvious reasons, i'm interested in having that protection. the case of the beating by the belgian police of mr mario borghezio and his arrest on 11 september 2007 in front of the european parliament building, despite the fact that he had presented his parliamentary identity card and informed the public of his immunity, shows that one does not have to go to third countries to know that this protection is not the best, even for members of parliament. i think the first thing to do is to take care of what's going on in the immediate environment.
in writing. we live in the 21st century, and unfortunately, whether we like it or not, we have to adapt to the new, rapidly changing times. that is why i very much welcome mr heaton harris' report on the introduction of an electronic environment for customs and trade. the provisions contained in this document are very important and urgent for modern europe. they contain the tools to create a new generation of work environments in customs and trade, a generation of paperless environments that are so necessary to relieve the burden of our officials, who are drowning under piles of unnecessary administrative paperwork. not to mention the environmental issues and the amount of trees we have to sacrifice every year to produce the tons of paper needed for this job. i consider it particularly important and urgent to electronicise customs systems and to create a 'single window' and a 'one-stop shop'. i am convinced that europe should invest more and more in such solutions so that the lisbon strategy declarations do not become mere empty slogans.
madam president! as one of the eight countries most affected by this report, and because poland, and in particular the silesia region, the most industrialized region, has significant concentrations of dust exceeding the daily and annual standards referred to in the report, i voted in full knowledge of the facts in favour of this report. i think this is a very good step in the direction of environmental protection in my country and in the region of silesia.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today's sitting is the last time we discuss the draft budget of the european union for 2008. he seems to be living up to our expectations, although as usual, the biggest discussions are with his highness. but we have to move within the established framework and adapt our positions to it. we tried to include all the amendments, but it was sometimes impossible because they were mutually exclusive. i am particularly pleased that in pursuing europe's role as a global partner, we have sought to maximise the resources available for this purpose, and judging by the speech of the sakharov prize laureate, mr salih mahmoud osman, the world is counting heavily on the european union. i would like to say that the uen group, on whose behalf i am speaking, will vote in favour of the draft budget presented and i would like to thank all my colleagues very warmly for what we have done and for the praise they have given us. thank you so much!
mr. chairman, please! the 2008 budget is not optimistic, as it is the lowest in many years in relation to the gross national income of the member states, both in commitment and payment appropriations. i would remind you that in the financial perspective for 2007-2013, the ceiling for 2008 was set at 1,08 of gni for commitments and 1,06 of gni for payments. so we have a big discrepancy between what the eu wanted to finance two years ago and what it wants to finance now. we cannot have more europe for so little money in any of the areas for which the european union is spending. fortunately, the conciliation procedure resulted in an agreement on the funding of the galileo programme and the european institute of technology. i also hope that parliament will agree to the mobilisation of the budgetary reserves for the financing of the frontex agency, which is particularly important for countries such as poland, whose borders will become fully external borders of the european union as early as december.
mr. chairman, please! the 2008 budget, in both its structure and its size, shows that we are still in the initial phase of the implementation of the next generation of multiannual programmes linked to the financial perspective 2007-13. this is reflected, for example, in the record low level of payments in relation to gross national income. i hope that the beneficiaries of this budget in 2008 will surprise the european parliament in a pleasant way and surprise the finance ministers in an unpleasant way by forcing the so-called amending budget because of the higher than we currently think consumption, especially of the structural funds. the successful conciliation is a joint success for the three institutions involved. i congratulate mr böge as head of the parliamentary delegation, i congratulate the rapporteurs, the secretariat and so on. the same conciliation left the unpleasant impression that the parliamentary delegation, as has already been made clear in today's debate, is not so much a party to the agreement or a participant in the negotiations as a sort of observer of the deal-making process between several national delegations, interested in particular in the way of financing, and perhaps even more so in public contracts, the public procurement linked to the galileo programme. this is the unpleasant impression that was reflected later in the media reports of this event, which was a budgetary conciliation and not just a meeting of the finance ministers of the countries concerned. i promise, on behalf of parliament, that we will draw lessons from this in future meetings of this kind in 2008.
acting president of the council. mr president, i listened very carefully to what the honourable members said and i should like to say that, if i was pleased at the beginning with the success achieved, i now have even more reason to be extremely pleased, on behalf of myself and the council, with the results we have all achieved. let me add that these results are a source of satisfaction for us, but they are also a source of pride for our institutions: the parliament, the council and the european commission. in the eyes of the citizens of europe we have shown a common will and the same ambition to continue building the european union, now with twenty-seven member states, as an area of peace, democracy, freedom, justice and also prosperity. i take this opportunity to wish you all the best, not only for the proper implementation of the budget that will be adopted, but also for the proper implementation of the projects that have been the subject of this negotiation. i thank you all very much for your kind words to the council. thank you very much, mr president.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the european union's annual report on human rights.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the defence of human rights should be a matter of conscience, not some intellectual fad. i therefore call for the european union's action in this area to be more sensitive to the issue of religious freedom. the violation of the consciences of believers is a growing and dramatic problem. china, burma, north korea, iran, sudan, eritrea, vietnam, but also russia, india, saudi arabia, uzbekistan or cuba, is that not enough? the weak presence of this problem is therefore disturbing, especially in the first part of the report. i welcome the promotion of gender and children's rights on our agenda, but the disregard for religious freedom can be interpreted as a prejudice in some european circles against faith as such. the development of a european union general guideline on religious freedom, the most impunely violated human right in the world today, is urgent.
mr. chairman, please! this is the annual report of the european union on human rights. a very good report, one of the best documents that has recently come out of the european union, which is a positive example of the coordination of human rights activities within the main european institutions, in this case the council and the commission. human rights policy is becoming the most developed european policy, symbolising, alongside the common market, the european union in the modern global civilisation at the dawn of the 21st century. in human rights, the european union speaks with one voice in international fora, does not hesitate to present its own position, which is not always in line with the us position, becomes increasingly effective and helpful to people persecuted in undemocratic regimes around the world. at the same time, mr president, we in the european parliament know, from the speech made today by this year's sakharov prize laureate, salih mahmoud mohammed osman, for example, how much more remains to be done. we need to think about what we can do, what actions we can take to make the european union's human rights policy more effective. i am thinking in particular of the human rights situation in russia after the elections that took place in that country and the situation in china in the year of the olympic games that will take place in that country next year. the european union has a lot to do here, particularly in the field of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! i particularly welcome the chapter in this report written by the activities of members of the european parliament. the award of the prize to alexander milinkiewicz and the strong and decisive response to the murder of anna politkovskaya have shown that europe will not stand idly by and watch human rights violations across our eastern border. however, there is still much to be done in this area. the recent parliamentary elections in russia have shown that basic principles and freedoms are being systematically violated. the events that took place there also cast a negative light on the regular consultations between the european union and the russian federation in the field of human rights. it may be time to redefine the formula by introducing penalties for failure to implement commitments or mechanisms to monitor their implementation. one thing is certain, russia is moving further and further away from democracy. but hopefully next year we'll have more reason to be glad that we didn't waste time and opportunity to make the world a better place.
mr. chairman, please! the report includes information on discussions with the russian and chinese authorities on human rights. unfortunately, this information is not specific. meanwhile, in russia, there's a battle between the police and the military for chechen organs. they're abducted from their homes, and after cutting out everything that's suitable for transplantation, they're thrown out. in china, organ donors are political prisoners. the council of europe has already taken a position on this issue this year. our parliament was only able to destroy an exhibition showing russian crimes against the chechens at night. it was deemed too drastic an exhibition, not the acts it documented. i ask you, how long are we going to allow genocide? i ask for clarification, did the talks with russia and china address the issue i raised?
mr. chairman, please! i want to express my satisfaction that my country, poland, has withdrawn its objection to the establishment of a day against the death penalty. this decision not only reflects well the feelings of the poles, but also allows the union to speak with one voice. as regards the report in question, i welcome its fourth item, entitled 'women's rights and gender equality'. it is good that the european commission has included gender equality and women's empowerment in its priorities and framework for action until 2010. now every member state must bear this in mind and take it into account in every policy initiative and development cooperation. but let's look at the practice of this. can we feel good when we hear about, for example, the 24-year-old iranian woman delaram ali, who was sentenced to 32 months in prison and 10 lashes for participating in a demonstration against the persecution of women, or when in basra since july this year, 42 women were found dead, murdered simply because they did not cover their heads or wear makeup? i don't think we can tolerate this. these women died for nothing.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. mr leichtfried has done his job well. so i congratulate you on behalf of the uen and on my own behalf. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this also applies to the operations, licensing, crew training and aircraft of non-eu countries. what we are doing today is a continuation of the original regulation of 2002. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to discuss the matter with the european parliament. naturally, in such a situation, the question arises as to whether this is necessary and appropriate. the answer is yes, given the almost avalanche of air traffic over europe and the need to coordinate connections while maintaining maximum safety. this uniformity does not limit the sovereignty of the member states, which means that they adopt the highest possible standard in civil aviation. safety, both in the flight itself and in the airport, must be a priority and must not be the subject of conflicts of competence with national authorities. i also expect that the european agency's remit will soon be extended to include the issues currently dealt with by eurocontrol, since there is no need to increase the number of agencies. in this context, it is of particular importance that aircraft from third countries are also included in the scope of isa to verify ex ante that an operator from such a country meets safety standards before being authorised to operate from outside or within the union. in this respect, compliance with the convention on international civil aviation, signed in chicago on 7 december 1944, is essential. it was on this occasion that four days ago we celebrated international civil aviation day. this year's theme was 'international air transport as a driving force for sustainable economic, social and cultural development'. i also hope that the european aviation safety agency will soon find its place in icao, which is the un body dealing with global aviation issues. this is a worldwide problem. the question of commissions and fees needs clarification. i am convinced that the commission will also take account of the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises in this respect. i talked to the rest of the hungarian team. we are undertaking a really important matter, it is to serve our citizens so let's hope that it is a successful venture that in its execution details will not be annoying to passengers, which unfortunately sometimes happens in this situation.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr golik, for his excellent report on the commission proposal for a single council regulation for the promotion of agricultural products on the internal as well as the external markets. the aim of the present proposal is to merge two existing council regulations on internal and external promotion into one single regulation. the overall goal of this exercise is totally in line with our simplification exercise and is intended to increase the transparency of the european union’s promotion scheme for agricultural products. the objective is not to fundamentally change the information and promotion policies. the amendments proposed by mr golik and his colleagues address several important issues regarding the eu promotion scheme, such as, firstly, more importance and a larger budget for promotion programmes in third countries; secondly, a higher community share of promotion measures and, thirdly, a lower share of financial contribution by the proposing organisations. as regards the sharing of contribution between the different partners, you know that the standard community contribution is 50%, and that the other 50% is shared between the member states and the proposing organisations, with the latter paying at least 20%. this sharing of the financial burden between the different partners is based on a very long experience with the promotion programmes. if all partners contribute and become financially involved, the chances for an efficient and well-targeted programme clearly increase. for exceptional cases, such as the recent case of fruit and vegetables for schoolchildren, it is possible to increase the community’s share to 60%. regarding your idea to emphasise more programmes for promotion in third countries, i am, in principle, sympathetic towards the idea, but it has to be put into the right context. this proposal is simply about merging two regulations; it is not about policy discussions or more money, so the right moment to have this discussion would be when we consider the future of our common agricultural policy, where our priorities should be well reflected in our budget allocation. however, this does not mean that i am pushing promotion into the background. as you possibly know, in our two recent reforms – the first on food and vegetables, and the one we will, hopefully, finalise at the beginning of next week, namely the wine reform – we have been focusing and underlining the importance of promoting programmes. to take the example of wine, we have allocated eur 120 million every year specifically for promoting our excellent european wines in third countries. i think we are on the right track, but let us come back to this at a later stage – this is simply a merging of the two regulations.
the rapporteur. madam president! the draft council regulation on the combination of information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries is designed to harmonise and consolidate the two regulations currently in force. this is in the wider context of the process of simplifying and making community legislation more transparent. however, i would like to emphasise that simplification is understood here as a technical measure only and the draft regulation in question does not, unfortunately, refer to the essential principles of promotion and information which are described in the implementing rules of the european commission. despite these limitations, my report took a much broader, more strategic approach to the promotion of agricultural products in the european union. the european parliament must be able to address the key issues related to such an important mechanism. in particular, when we take into account the development of multilateral negotiations in the wto and the changes in the conditions for the functioning of the common agricultural policy. all forms of export subsidies, including community export refunds, will be abolished by 2013. the tariff reduction is assumed. in this context, only increased information and promotion activities are able to maintain the export competitiveness of eu agricultural products, to serve the acquisition of new markets in third countries, to increase consumer awareness of the merits of european food and thus to stimulate demand. at the same time, it does not distort competition in the markets and does not affect world trade. we cannot therefore allow the importance of promotion and information activities to be marginalised, but on the contrary, we must make them a priority for the european union. under the current system, the european commission draws up a list of specific products and third countries that can be targeted by campaigns. the list may be revised every two years, while programmes themselves may only be notified once a year, and it is for the european commission to decide whether a programme is approved and what funding it receives. in 2007, the budget for promotion is only €45 million, and it is being reduced every year. this trend is all the more surprising when one considers that both the number of countries in the european union has increased and the general interest in the activities in question has increased significantly. such a policy cannot effectively strengthen the community's position and the recognition of european quality standards, in particular on third country markets. the achievement of such ambitious objectives must be supported by adequate financial means. i therefore believe that the community's financial contribution should be increased from the threshold of 50 to 60% of the actual costs of the programmes. i also propose that the minimum contribution of industry organisations to the funding of programmes be reduced to 10% to give smaller organisations the opportunity to participate. in addition, for organic farming and programmes linked to emergency situations such as avian influenza or bse, the community contribution could be as high as 70%. programmes should be made generally available and more flexible. the inclusion of all products and all countries, as well as the possibility for organisations to submit programmes at least twice a year, will allow for a rapid response to emerging market opportunities and the possibility for producers to expand in third countries. returning to the simplification aspects of the regulation, it was justified to include promotion measures in the single common organisation of agricultural markets regulation, which would increase legislative transparency. it is worth noting that the regulation reforming the fruit and vegetable market and the draft wine reform you mentioned refer to the community promotion instrument. efforts should be made to avoid a situation where the provisions on promotion measures are too fragmented. in conclusion, i would like to take this opportunity to thank the members of the committee on agriculture who unanimously adopted this report, the representatives of the european commission, with whom i have met on several occasions, the 24 agriculture ministers who have written to me on this matter, and the european and national trade organisations for their active cooperation and substantive comments. this consultation enabled me to assess the system in place and to learn about the demands of these countries and organisations and to implement them. in conclusion, i believe that the promotion and information measures, with a correspondingly increased budget, will help european producers and farmers to win new markets and the 'made in europe' brand to be properly identified in the world.
member of the commission. madam president, i wish to thank members for their contribution to this very important debate. i hope that we can all agree on the fact that it is important that we have a budget available to explain to consumers the high quality of european products, both within the european union and on the overseas markets. i must say that i am a bit surprised that this should be considered a protectionist approach, because we are in a situation where all member states within the european union and all other players in the agricultural commodity market are promoting their products to the consumer. on this, we within the european union have completely clear stands, because we have high-quality products, with regard to the environment, with regard to animal welfare and with regard to the high level of veterinary standards. on the point of underspending of the budget or the fact that the budget has been decreasing, it has not been possible to spend the money, because there has been no interest on the overseas markets from producer organisations. i hope that this problem will be solved when we merge those two different regulations, so that it is much easier, much more flexible, to handle. i would be open to having a discussion, maybe within the health check, on how we set goalposts for the future of our promotion campaigns for our agricultural products. i think, at the very least, a proper time to have this discussion would be when we have the discussion on the budget for the future, meaning after 2013. however, i think we have sent some clear signals, both within the fruit and vegetable reform and within the wine reform, on the importance of promotion for our production.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we agree that information and promotion of agricultural products, both on the internal market and in third countries, is essential. we also agree that the rules should be simplified and harmonised and that administrative procedures for implementing information policy should be reduced. we also know that good information and promotion are the lever for trade and for finding new markets for products, and that the amount of eur 45 840 000 in terms of the amount of payments planned for 2007 is far too low. what should we do, and on what should we focus? i believe we should focus on promoting environmentally sound, gmo-free agricultural products, starting with youth and educational institutions. as part of the promotion, the young people in school should not only receive fruit but also other healthy organic products. to succeed, it is also necessary to implement a labelling system containing information relevant to the consumer, such as the origin of the product, its quality, production methods, safety, nutritional value, etc. this information should be provided on the packaging in the native languages of the consumers. it is therefore necessary to streamline the trade and labelling in supermarkets, especially in the new member states. to achieve the desired results, it is necessary to explore new markets, improve the overall control system and ensure good cooperation between all member states.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. the report on the promotion of agricultural products we are discussing today should have the word 'organic' in its title. the society consumes a certain amount of food, and we don't want to eat more food, but to eat healthy and good food. in many of the eu's mass catering establishments, food is served so rich in chemicals and fertilizers that it is hardly surprising that we have successive generations of europeans who are getting fatter. i wouldn't want to promote that kind of food. this makes european society more sick and more prone to obesity. if we start providing good food to our citizens, it will become an advertisement in the world. the people of the world should be convinced that europe produces and sells good food. i fully support the report's proposals to promote regional self-sufficiency in the production of traditional foodstuffs for the area. finally, i would like to congratulate mr golik on his excellent report.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. the proposal for a directive on the legal protection of industrial designs in question concerns the liberalisation of the aftermarket for spare parts for the automotive industry, which is estimated to be worth eur 10 billion across the union. the common market currently covers only the sale of new cars and most member states maintain in their legal systems their own provisions protecting designs and models of visible spare parts. this means that the production and trade of parts such as engine covers, doors, bumpers and mudguards cannot take place freely and different regulations in this field in different member states distort competition. in countries with full design protection, such as austria, france, germany and the czech republic, the prices of spare parts are on average 6 to 10% higher. the main beneficiaries are the european consumer and small and medium-sized enterprises that would like to enter the market and compete fairly with authorised services. opponents of liberalization are mainly large car companies, who believe that independent manufacturers will sell parts at a lower price because they do not bear the costs of designing and developing a new product. the commission proposal is another step towards the full liberalisation of the automotive market in europe. the repair clause is a consumer-friendly law, opposes the monopoly of car groups on the spare parts market and affects greater competition between manufacturers, resulting in lower prices for parts and higher quality. it is worth noting that the repair clause has already been introduced with positive effects for consumers in 11 competitive and high-growth countries of the european union, including ireland, the united kingdom and, among the new members of the union, latvia, hungary and poland. in fact, the only difference between the parts of independent producers and the ones with the group logo is usually the packaging. 80% of the parts are produced by independent producers and only 20% are produced directly by the groups. the protection of designs has nothing to do with the safety of the parts, but only with their appearance, as has been confirmed by reliable analyses carried out so far throughout europe. in conclusion, i would like to add that the five-year period is the maximum that european consumers can agree to.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the subject of today's debate is the liberalization of the spare parts market. the idea is to allow manufacturers other than the owners of the car companies to produce spare parts for cars. mr lehne's report is going in a very good direction and both i personally and the group of the union for a europe of nations support the conclusions drawn from it. we realize, i realize, as a supporter of a liberal economy, that for a good and efficient liberal economy, two elements are essential: on the one hand, the freedom to produce and sell various products, and on the other hand, the protection of the property of the producer, the original producer, his intellectual property, you could say his copyright. but the point is that complete economic freedom will not be effective if we do not respect the property of the person who gave the first idea and who has, as it were, a moral right to that product, who invented it and who is its original owner. on the other hand, there is no economic freedom if copyright leads to market monopoly and thus restricts economic freedom. i am convinced that in this area, in the field of spare parts, in those countries where there have been restrictions in favour of the copyright of the original manufacturer, there has been a de facto restriction of the economy, an increase in the price of the product and thus a monopoly of the car manufacturer, and therefore of the owner of intellectual property. so if we want to balance the law of any market on the one hand, and the right to preserve intellectual property on the other, we have to put some boundaries on that intellectual property. i think that this report is moving in that direction and that is why, from the point of view of economic liberalism, that is to say, the system which produces the most efficient, the most productive and the best production, if it is kept within certain limits, i support the report and congratulate mr lehne on it.
madam president! the legal protection of designs is intended to safeguard the benefits of their design, but it must not restrict competition and lead to unjustified increases in their prices. the introduction of the repair clause strikes a fair balance between the legal protection of intellectual property and the need for freedom of competition and protects 260 million european drivers from a monopoly on the purchase of visible spare parts for car repairs. i support amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 5 and 8 and am against amendments nos 6, 7 and 9. these changes are beneficial for the single market, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lehne, for his contribution and the compromises made in the amendment of the design directive.
member of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank all meps who have contributed to this debate. i have listened carefully, not only to this discussion, but to other commentary on this proposal for some considerable time. so, in closing, let me stress a few key points. the current situation with a mixed design protection regime is creating trade distortions, which is bad for the internal market, bad for business and bad for consumers. the full liberalisation of the spare parts aftermarket promises net benefits in many respects. it would allow for more competition and access and participation of smes in the market. consumers would benefit from more choice and lower prices. besides the legal certainty, it would also simplify the daily lives of administrations, courts, companies – especially smes – and consumers. lastly, the proposed repair clause is derived from and is in full accord with the principles of intellectual property protection. i therefore ask the european parliament for its support and repeat what many speakers here have said – but particularly what mr lehne and mr harbour have said – that the european parliament will send out a strong signal in favour of a solution that the community so urgently needs.
in writing. - madam president! - i have to go. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr lehne, for his work on this project. i believe that the report before us today should be supported, because the 'amendment clause' strikes a balance between the legal protection of intellectual property and the free competition and consumer protection. it is designed to prevent undue monopolies from arising and its introduction is another step towards the creation of a single market. i agree with the honourable member that in a global context it is necessary to avoid a disadvantageous situation for the internal market of the european union in the field of competition, and yet, according to the directive currently in force, different legal practices exist in different member states. the analyses carried out show that in member states which maintain legal protection for spare parts designs in their legislation, the prices of these parts are between 6,4% and 10,3% higher than in those member states which have liberalised this market. finally, i would like to note that poland has completely liberalised this market.
mr. chairman, please! history likes to repeat itself. three years ago, the treaty establishing a constitution for europe was signed. the eu leaders were very pleased and confident that the document would come into force. two nations, however, expressed strong opposition by way of a referendum. now the heads of government are signing a nearly identical text, hoping to avoid a referendum this time. this basic instrument of democracy is clearly being disregarded. the time publicly referred to as reflection time has been wasted. instead of consultation, social dialogue and discussion, it was focused on mechanisms of manipulation. it should be stressed that the so-called reform treaty is a very important document, since it actually leads to a limitation of the sovereignty of the member states. it transfers many prerogatives hitherto reserved to nation states to eu institutions, which lack real democratic control. i am convinced that if the people of europe were to have a say, the treaty signed tomorrow would share the fate of the previous one.
mr president, the lisbon treaty will have a significant impact on the foreign policy of the european union in the coming future. our discussions in the committee on foreign affairs in this house allow me to pronounce a very positive view on the new treaty for a number of reasons. a single framework greatly enhances the coherence of the eu’s external action: the new treaty implies a major step forward when compared to the existing arrangements. it provides an explicitly legal basis for the neighbourhood policy, establishes a single legal personality of the union as a whole and obliges member states to consult one another and to demonstrate mutual solidarity. in the institutional aspect, major improvements are made by enhancing the powers of the double-hatted high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security who is at the same time vice-president of the european commission and by establishing the european external action service. most importantly, the new treaty enhances the budgetary powers of parliament over eu foreign policy spending, putting the european parliament on an equal footing with the council. moreover, the new legal basis for instruments or policies related to the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) are also established, for instance the sanctions against non-state entities, space policy and energy security, combating climate change, prevention of international terrorism and protection of personal data. in fact, the greatest improvements refer to the european security and defence policy (esdp), since the lisbon treaty provides in particular for a permanent structured cooperation in defence between those member states with the military capability. from our point of view, however, the new treaty also suffers from a few shortcomings: the european parliament should be consulted on the nomination of the new high representative and vice-president of the commission, not only for the first person to take office on 1 january 2009, but also in the case of the interim appointment afterwards and, obviously, when appointing the whole commission, including its vice-president for foreign affairs. let me also highlight the need for the new, newly-elected high representative and vice-president to effectively consult parliament ex ante on the main aspects of the basic choices of cfsp and esdp. to sum up: the lisbon treaty constitutes a milestone in the institutional development of the european union in foreign affairs and, as chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to warmly welcome its pending signature.
mr. chairman, please! three years after the end of world war ii, the united nations proclaimed the universal declaration of human rights, which is still the standard for human rights today. almost 60 years later, the european union also codified human rights, offering europeans a charter of fundamental rights, a document tailored to their needs and expectations at the dawn of the 21st century. so why did two countries, poland and the uk, so committed to codifying human rights internationally, protest the charter? why don't they want to give it to their own citizens? my disappointment as a pole is all the greater that both poland and the uk have already accepted this card. it was their prime ministers and foreign ministers who signed the charter as the second part of the constitutional treaty. we remember, it happened in rome on october 29, 2004. these signatures are not only a commitment to the european partners, but also a signal to the citizens of these countries and a promise that they will receive the card. the content of the card has not changed since 2004. the approach of poland and the uk has changed. i ask why tony blair's successors and mark buehle's successors are objecting to this document and depriving the citizens of these countries of the benefits of the card? i would like to ask the president of the european council one last question: please ask the current prime ministers of poland and the united kingdom why they do not respect the signatures of their predecessors. after all, in foreign policy, the principle of continuity is of fundamental importance, and we citizens, i'm talking about poles, the rights deriving from this charter are very much needed
mr president, europe is not just a gathering of elites, europe is not just european institutions, europe is above all a matter of trust. meanwhile, yesterday the chairman of the national democratic party of germany, mr udo voigt, declared on german public television: poland should immediately give back silesia to the germans, poland should immediately give back pomerania, gdańsk, wrocław and other cities to the germans. he also questioned the figures for the number of victims of the holocaust. i ask myself today, when the spirit of europe is hovering over the waters and this parliament, why did mr schulz lose his revolutionary vigilance, why did the german government not speak out forcefully? this is the kind of action that led to the third reich. we demand a strong rebuke and delegation of power to the fascist party which, in the interests of europe, is creating the worst possible thing - it is destroying the trust between european nations which are supposedly seeking the common good, and germany, as the leader of europe, should be particularly sensitive to this type of action and this should be done immediately for the good of the european communities.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the preparations for the european union summit in brussels in december are in a better mood than in previous meetings. this is clearly linked to the agreement on the reform treaty and the uninterrupted prospect of its signing in lisbon. the political compromise reached in poland to maintain the line of the previous government on the charter of fundamental rights, so as not to risk the entire treaty, has its part to play. however, it should be stressed that the atmosphere created around the new treaty overly linked its adoption or non-adoption to the chances of the european union's survival. the community operated after the 2004 enlargement and the accession of bulgaria and romania, i.e. as a group of 27 countries, on the basis of the treaty of nice. the agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-13 was a demonstration of its ability to act. the agreement on money, which is the most difficult, has been reached, albeit with difficulties, and is therefore a test of the usefulness of the existing institutional rules. in spite of this and other agreements, the impression of a crisis in the union was artificially created. this in turn reflected a decline in citizens' trust in the eu institutions and the purposefulness of further enlargement. this dangerous spiral, partially stopped in the second half of 2007, should be a lesson and a warning for the future!
madam president! i would like to express my great pleasure that the european parliament has supported the proposal of the committee on agriculture, and in particular the proposal of the polish meps, to allow the production of wine with the addition of a statement indicating whether it is fruit wine - apple or cider. this is the wine that has been produced in my country since the 13th century, almost 800 years ago, and i am glad that the european parliament has recognised this reality, this reality, this fact. finally, i would like to congratulate the president on the excellent way in which she has conducted the proceedings, especially in the heated atmosphere that has been prevailing here today, perhaps too heated at times. you are a representative of the british parliamentary school, and i congratulate you on that.
in writing. madam president! the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument and the revision of the financial perspective are a natural consequence of the agreement reached on 23 november on the 2008 budget. the flexibility instrument should, in principle, provide a budgetary plan for emergency situations that are difficult to predict. however, in my modest experience, the frequent use of this extraordinary instrument rarely meets the criteria of the interinstitutional agreement. the same is true of the 2008 draft budget. both the €200 million to finance the galileo programme in 2008 and the €70 million in title iv to finance additional cfsp needs provide foreseeable solutions to the problems. despite warnings from the european parliament delegation that there were insufficient funds for satellite navigation and that the funds were insufficient in relation to the european union's international ambitions, the council was not persuaded to increase the relevant financial ceilings. the final shape of the financial perspective for 2007-13 was a harbinger of the difficulties that had emerged in the preparation of the 2008 budget. it can therefore be said that the parliamentary side has solved the problems caused by the council in the course of budgetary agreements. given the distortion of this truth in media reports, we should draw appropriate conclusions for the future.
in writing. madam president! i am voting in favour of the report by mr bogdan golik on the proposal for a council regulation on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries. the rapporteur rightly noted that in order to make a step towards a simple and efficient agricultural policy in europe, the community's system of information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal market and in third countries should be simplified. i agree with the formula that information campaigns should serve to inform consumers well about sustainable production methods in the cap, high quality agricultural products in the eu, organic farming and health aspects.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! the internal market is a very complex structure which has for many years successfully balanced the interests of the various groups dependent on it. the aim of this directive is to fully liberalise the aftermarket for spare parts. on the one hand, there are therefore a large number of manufacturers of spare parts who are demanding that their rights in the field of free competition and the prohibition of monopolies be respected, and on the other hand, there are car manufacturers (with particular reference to the car industry, of course) who, when investing in new car brands, argue that their spare parts are protected by the right to protection of designs. in this situation, which at first sight seems hopeless, i share the approach of the rapporteur, who proposes a system of temporary limitation of design protection. in practice, the term of protection of a design would be strictly based on the life cycle of the design of the complex product. i also agree with the rapporteur that, when a new protected design is introduced, the old design loses the protection of the design of the spare parts for the previous design, and it also ends when the production of the design in question, without a replacement design, ends. i think that is the most appropriate proposal and the one that best protects the interests of the groups involved. i also support the proposed transitional solution whereby member states whose existing legislation provides for design protection may apply such protection for five years from the entry into force of the directive.
in writing. madam president! i strongly support the giuseppe castiglione report on the proposal for a council regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine. the creation of a wine market with simple and effective production rules and the principles of healthy competition on the community market will not only improve the quality of european products but also raise the living standards of farmers. it is also important that consumers are aware of the production cycle of a product and its exact origin. it is also very beneficial for the production of fruit wine in my country and this is the main reason why i support this report.
in writing. madam president! eu member states have a duty to combat terrorism in all its aspects, while respecting the rule of law, human rights and civil liberties. the fight against terrorism is transnational and the need for international cooperation is clear. all institutions and services dealing with the fight against terrorism and enjoying special powers must be subject to the full democratic control of independent judicial authorities. the fight against terrorism must not be used as a means of strengthening the police and judicial powers of brussels at the expense of the nation states, as is being attempted in the resolution adopted today. that is why i did not support the resolution on terrorism in the eu today.
in writing. madam president! the 2008 work programme adopted a comprehensive approach to achieving the vision of a europe that meets the future expectations of its citizens. the priorities adopted by the european commission for the coming year are mainly to promote growth and jobs, sustainable development in europe and the management of migration flows. they cover climate change, energy, future eu enlargements and international action. it should be noted that the work plan was drawn up following detailed discussions with the other institutions, and also incorporates the issues recently discussed in the debate on globalisation at the informal european council in lisbon. the programme also includes communication priorities, which are the next step in the commission's efforts to improve the way citizens are informed about the eu. they welcome the announcement of a new approach to the application of the subsidiarity principle and the use of impact assessments of proposed legislation on a case-by-case basis to avoid past mistakes. i also welcomed the announcement of new draft legislation to improve the situation of women, in particular to help reconcile family and professional life, which is an important step towards combating the decline in natural growth in europe.
in writing. as a member of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, i wish to support the outcome of the eu-africa summit in lisbon last week. at the last meeting of this assembly in kigali, we called for prudence and for the abandonment of a hasty new regulation of relations between the eu and africa. it is clear that a joint eu-africa strategy must take account of the interests of both partners concerned and that cooperation cannot be at the expense of either. the fact that the union is the most important economic partner for african countries and that europe is the main source of aid to africa also implies a special responsibility for the union. this was clearly stated in the joint declaration of the european and pan-african parliaments, rightly calling for greater involvement of both bodies in shaping future relations between the continents. the european parliament made its views clear in supporting the 'kigali declaration' (22 november 2007) which calls for an extension of the deadline for the conclusion of negotiations on a new eu-acp trade agreement, calling for its prudent formulation and suggesting the need to soften the wto's rigorous expectations. it is good that the priorities for the next summit (2009) include not only peace, security, human rights, energy, climate change and migration, but also the fight against poverty, for example through employment, investment in health and education.
member of the commission. madam president, i welcome today’s debate about the eu-china human rights dialogue. as you know, the human rights issue was raised and discussed at the very recent summit meeting in beijing and the joint statement also explicitly refers to it. i think it is fair to recognise that, although serious concerns remain and need to be addressed, china has also made remarkable progress in the human rights field over the last year. this is particularly true in the field of social and economic rights but also in some other areas. there are moves afoot to reform the ‘re-education through labour’ system. in this respect we welcome the new legislative initiative that is under consideration and we also hope that concrete reforms will be put in place soon. it is a fundamental principle of human rights not to deprive an individual of his or her liberty without due justice and a fair trial. china is also working to implement the recommendations of the un special rapporteur on torture. for example, the ministry of justice has recently directed courts not to rely on confessions on their own as sufficient evidence of guilt, as such confessions can sometimes be made as a result of torture by police or detention personnel. similarly, china is initiating specific training measures targeted at these groups of public order personnel. we are also pleased to note the progress made with respect to the supreme people’s court now exercising full review power over death penalty sentences issued by lower courts. and we understand that the result is a reduction in the number of effective death sentences and executions. this is gratifying for the european union. as you know, it has long been a priority area of intervention. nevertheless – and now of course i also have to say a few negative things – the commission remains concerned by the situation of human rights in china in general and more specifically in the field of civil and political rights. we particularly have in mind here freedom of expression, religion and association and the protection of the rights of minorities, for instance in tibet and in the province of xinjiang. in this context, the repression of human rights defenders remains a key concern. exercising the right to speak freely often leads to beatings, to house arrest or even to terms of imprisonment. access to the internet – the right to information – is closely monitored and restricted and those, for instance, who speak up in favour of greater autonomy for tibet receive disproportionately long terms of imprisonment. the use of state secrecy legislation as well as other loosely defined criminal provisions facilitates the prosecution of those who speak or publish freely. the commission therefore urges the chinese government to permit expressions of all forms of opinion. this is also, we think, a very important factor for how the international public views china, particularly next year in the run-up to the olympics, when all eyes will be on china. history shows that allowing freedom of expression leads, in the long term, to a far more stable society. we all know that. all these issues are regularly addressed in the eu-china human rights dialogue. therefore, we welcome the fact that the most recent dialogue which was held in october in beijing allowed a sincere and an in-depth exchange of views on all topics of our concern, with several of the discussions leading to follow-up activity. it is important to recognise that this dialogue provides an important forum where both parties can openly speak about their genuine concerns while contributing to a better understanding of our differences – and our differences remain notable. in this context we regret the chinese decision to withdraw from the human rights seminar in berlin over the participation of two ngos and that, for similar reasons, the seminar could not be held in beijing recently. we consider that civil society has a very important role to play and the seminar provides the appropriate forum for ngos to make their valuable contributions. i trust we are able to find a mutually agreed solution so that this important exercise will continue its successful path in the future, as underlined by the eu-china summit. let me close by saying that there are two more important human rights issues which we regularly raise with the chinese side as a matter of high priority. one is the ratification by china of the international covenant on civil and political rights and the other one is the release of those who were imprisoned at the time of the tiananmen square demonstrations or who later commemorated the 1989 events. decisive action on both sides would send a clear positive signal and would be highly welcome.
on behalf of the uen group. - madam president! - i have to go. the people's republic of china is a country that can be found on every list of human rights violations: freedom of speech, freedom of association, forced abortions, disappearances, torture, and finally religious freedom and the threat of aggression against taiwan. china's persecution of catholics continues since 1999, one of the most persecuted groups has been falun gong, according to a report by david kilgour, former canadian secretary of state for asian affairs, who said that falun gong members are being forcibly harvested in chinese labor camps. recently, people have disappeared without a trace, whose only fault is meeting with the vice-president of this house, congressman mcmillan-scott. at the same time, our trade relations are flourishing. china is pushing africa, and soon they'll be inviting millions of visitors to the olympics. i can't understand why the most obvious demand has not been made yet that the 2008 olympics should be boycotted by the free world.
madam president! the european parliament has repeatedly highlighted the human rights violations and lack of democracy in china. these are obvious issues. even yesterday, when we were discussing the european union's human rights report last year, we talked about the lack of human rights, democracy, rule of law in china. on the other hand, i don't think it's right to ignore the changes for the better that are taking place in china. the european union should use the upcoming olympic year in particular to put pressure on the chinese authorities to liberalize and democratize, to respect the rule of law, to release all political prisoners. on 20 november, the delegation of the european parliament's subcommittee on human rights to the united nations in new york met with representatives of chinese diplomacy at the un, including diplomat liu zhenmin. i'd rate this meeting as constructive. on the chinese side, we have signs of some openness and sensitivity to pressure on human rights and democracy. this was also emphasised in talks with the subcommittee on human rights by representatives of human rights watch and amnesty international.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the rise of extremism in europe is a fact and it should be talked about. the commissioner spoke a great deal, but in general terms and on secondary matters, including racism at football matches. we must speak out about the facts, about the political extremism that is taking place in the european union today. yesterday, mr. president, on the public broadcaster ard in germany, the head of the npd, the neo-fascist party, demanded the immediate return of pomerania and silesia to poland. he declared that kaliningrad, gdansk, wrocław were german cities, and demanded to exercise authority over them. he also said that these cities, these areas belonging to poland should immediately return to germany. we are dealing with this today in the leading country of the european union, germany. for several years now, german neo-fascists from the npd have been calling for border revisions, challenging the international treaties that ended world war ii, and demanding the removal of borders. we cannot allow this, commissioner, we must have a strong reaction, we cannot allow public television in any country, in this case germany, to allow neo-fascists and nazis to air their revisionist views and their views calling for another war. and this is not a marginal problem, ladies and gentlemen, this problem is real. this party has representatives in seven landtags. this cannot be tolerated in modern europe, just as it cannot be tolerated that the principles of democracy, diversity of opinion and freedom of expression are being undermined, as they have been today by mr cohn-bendit and mr watson, who, referring to the differences of opinion on the charter of fundamental rights, not so much the charter as the treaty reforming the union, called those members who opposed him idiots. this is not the way to teach young people about democracy and the modern european union. let us be united in our diversity.
mr president, the motion before us is another example of ignorance and hypocrisy. in it we read that, amongst other things, some political parties and movements, including those in power in a number of countries or represented at local, national or european level, have deliberately placed intolerance and violence based on race, ethnic origin or nationality at the heart of their agenda. we also read that this parliament strongly condemns all racist and hate attacks and calls on all authorities to do everything in their power to punish those responsible. in the chamber in which we adopt such resolutions, one of our colleagues used abusive and offensive language of mendacious propaganda – the very kind that is often used by extremists, the very kind that is based on slurs and qualifies as a hate attack. he implied that i could repeat dachau. well, let me enlighten him: one, dachau was a german death camp; two, dachau is in germany, and i am not german. he even claimed that, after a four-day visit to poland, he knew my country better than i did, and that i am not a part of poland – but that dachau apparently is. this kind of hate speech is too often cited, reoccurs too often and emanates from too many politicians. the same politicians want to teach us all about democracy, while they themselves have little respect for it and little respect for equal treatment under the law. it seems that in europe today – just as george orwell wrote years ago – some pigs are more equal than others. some can hide under the privilege of immunity, some can even avoid justice and even european arrest warrants. communist criminals are somehow better treated than ordinary citizens, and while we speak in here against extremist groups, some german politicians openly support historically revisionist political movements. my dear colleagues, the europe of our resolutions is very different from the europe of our reality.
mr. chairman, please! i don't know if political extremism is a growing phenomenon or not. i know that they must be opposed, they must be condemned as an ideology and as a method of action. the problem is that the charter of fundamental rights, which we have solemnly celebrated here today, is not a solution to the problem, but may create new problems. article 21 of the constitution prohibits discrimination on the grounds of political opinion and any other, any other, and therefore extremist, statements, such as those made by the head of the npd recently on german public television, calling for a change of the border with poland. it's painful to say phrases. so i ask the supporters of the charter of fundamental rights: how do you intend to fight political extremism if you are also defending it?
mr. chairman, please! the european continent, the countries of the european union, are today a territory where we have to deal with cases of xenophobia, extreme nationalism, anti-semitism, racism, islamophobia. we are missing in europe today what the liberal-democratic consensus was after the second world war. we lack the real political will, the european political class, to deal with these problems. tackling the problem of racism, islamophobia, anti-semitism and xenophobia in europe is a common responsibility for european education, the media, the churches, sportsmen and, above all, the political class. we are often vulnerable to these extreme manifestations of political activity. moreover, many politicians of political parties use extremist or populist movements for their own purposes. i do not want to use this debate to start political disputes in the european parliament, but i could give many examples. what is most important now is to achieve a common policy at european union level in the field of education, especially education, sport, culture, and political action against extremism.
mr. chairman, please! extremism is a phenomenon that is encouraged by politicians with extreme views, who use racism, nationalism, xenophobia for their own purposes. extremism often uses terrorist activities for its own ends. extremism does not unite but divides people, social groups, it is the enemy of democratic society, it is contrary to the fundamental value of the european union, which is a community of people who exclude hatred, wars caused by fascists and nationalists, which have caused tens of millions of victims in the 20th century in europe. extremism and the use of terrorism for political ends has given rise to the largest terrorist organization, al qaeda, which is able to destroy weak democracies and to seize political power. i support the resolution because it mobilises the european institutions to take further action against terrorism and extremism.
mr. chairman, please! one way to combat extremism and reduce the electorate of extremist parties is to listen more closely to citizens on issues that are important to them and to analyse the causes of extremism in depth. if europeans vote for extremist parties, it also means that a large part of the population does not feel listened to by those in power. i don't want to defend extremism, but you can't say it comes out of nowhere. nicolas sarkozy in france understood this, and by being bold and honest about issues like immigration and turkish accession, he was able to weaken extremist parties. i would encourage the european commission to look at the example of france.
mr. chairman, please! the proposal for the signature of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and the republic of montenegro concerns a special situation. this is the first time we've had a country that won its independence through a referendum. i was an observer at the first parliamentary elections in montenegro after the referendum, as a representative of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. both the council of europe delegation and the oecd confirmed the democratic nature of the elections. i was fascinated by the civic engagement in election observation. representatives of ngos, men of confidence, were present in all the electoral commissions we visited. everywhere, the commitment of the members of the electoral commission to ensure that all procedures were followed was evident. it should also be noted that the currency of montenegro is the euro. in view of the progress towards integration with the european union, i support the proposal for approval of the agreement. i hope that the adjustment process will help montenegro to improve the living conditions of its people. (the president read out the speaker's speech.)
mr. chairman, please! the political situation in the balkans has been of particular interest to this parliament for many years. we are pleased that after a period of bloody conflicts, peace and cooperation between nations are becoming a daily practice in this region. even the most sensitive issues, such as the declaration of independence by new states, are now being, or can be, dealt with in a manner and manner that conforms to the highest international standards. this is the right direction for political evolution in the balkans, which creates an opportunity to achieve the strategic goal for most of the peoples living there, namely closer cooperation with the european union, including full membership. montenegro is a prime example of this evolution. after the declaration of independence, it maintained good relations with its closest neighbors, including the republic of serbia, with which it had previously formed a federation. it immediately launched intensive negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement, which was signed on 15 october. in parallel, it signed a free trade agreement with the union, which will enter into force in january next year. during this short period of just one and a half years, montenegro has made remarkable progress. the changes in fiscal and tax policies and the development of a market economy based on competition and free movement of capital should be welcomed. much remains to be done, particularly in the areas of social and employment policy, energy, environmental protection, as well as security and civil liberties. e most important tasks facing the government of montenegro are to effectively combat corruption and organised crime and to cooperate fully with the international criminal court in the hague. however, these are not the only problems facing montenegro. all balkan countries applying for membership of the european union face similar challenges. montenegro is one of the leaders in this process and i would like to express my hope that it will remain so. the union is ready to accept the balkan countries as members of the community. whether and when this happens depends, above all, on the elites and the wisdom of the balkan politicians.
mr. chairman, please! mr swoboda was right a moment ago when he spoke of the great corruption in montenegro. i can cite here, to support this thesis, the data of transparency international, which found that on a scale of 0 to 10, 10 is no corruption, montenegro has a score of 3.3, so it is indeed in the top of the countries where corruption is a big problem. i would also add here that the issue of smuggling is a dramatic problem in this country. in this sense, the country really has no borders. recently, an initiative was proposed to ban smoking in public places, whereas in the centre of the capital you can buy thousands of packs of smuggled cigarettes, and of course in this respect montenegro is on a fairly long road to the european union. on the other hand, however, it is necessary to encourage the country to meet the criteria required by the union as soon as possible. i am glad that when it comes to the question of the judiciary, for example, and when it comes to the question of the functioning of the administration, this progress is noticeable. we have to appreciate what montenegro has done in this area since it so unexpectedly declared independence after the referendum. i think that the european union should send a clear signal that once the relevant criteria are met, the road to european union will be shorter. we must give a real prospect of membership, not in two, three or four years, of course, but it must be a certain amount of encouragement for the montenegrin society to implement these european standards in the country.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that montenegro is an example of positive developments in the balkans, state building, constitution, rule of law, entry into the global market and the construction of a market economy. the european parliament should therefore undoubtedly support the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and the republic of montenegro. at the same time, however, we must remember that montenegro has a lot to change, a lot to do, especially in the area of the rule of law and the fight against corruption. i would like to point out that montenegro signed a bilateral agreement with the united states in april 2007 to exclude from the jurisdiction of the international criminal court. unfortunately, this is an agreement which is contrary to the common position and the guiding principles of the european union. the international criminal court is a very important institution for the policy of the european union. so this agreement was an unpleasant setback to this agreement. i am not talking about discouraging the european parliament from montenegro, on the contrary, i believe that the european commission, all the institutions of the european union should do a lot at this moment to help montenegro prepare well for closer relations with the european union, above all at the level of fighting corruption, strengthening the rule of law, building a market economy, dealing with the second economy, the underground economy and the march towards the european union.
member of the commission. mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the members for a very substantial and substantive debate and mr vernola for stimulating this debate. most members rightly emphasised the absolute necessity of combating corruption and crime and ensuring that the rule of law is reinforced in montenegro. i could not agree more: the rule of law is fundamentally important for all sectors of society, underpinning the functioning of the whole society and the economy. that is precisely why the commission insists very much on judiciary reform early on in the pre-accession process in montenegro, as well as in the other countries of the western balkans. this is one of the most important political criteria of accession, which should be considered first and foremost. mr vernola and many other members also highlighted the importance of ecology and the environment. the commission is assisting this ancient kingdom to become the ecological republic in the garden of nations, as mr paleckis said, by strengthening the administrative capacity of montenegro, which in turn makes the country better able to approximate its laws to ours, for instance in the field of waste management and water treatment. however, this is also related to corruption and i want to quote from the progress report of the commission. ‘there have been no improvements in activities to curb political corruption. ... management of public assets raises serious concerns. there is considerable room for corruption, especially in the cases of construction and land-use planning, privatisation, concessions and public procurement.’ this is a very serious issue and that is why montenegro needs to address corruption as one of its first priorities. let me also inform the honourable members that the commission intends to adopt a communication early next year – probably in march – in which we will take stock of developments since thessaloniki, and salzburg last year, and give pointers towards the future. one such issue will be visa liberalisation, mentioned by many of you, and rightly so. the commission will initiate dialogue on roadmaps towards visa-free travel, which should help the countries of the western balkans to make progress to meet the requirements so their citizens will no longer need visas to travel to the european union. but, i want to underline that this is not, as such, within the competences of the commission but in the hands of the national governments of the european union, and the ministries and ministers of the interior are the key players here. therefore let us join our forces and carry out effective lobbying of the ministers of the interior as well as of the countries concerned in the western balkans, because we have to be sure that all the security requirements, such as the issuing of documents and border controls, are in full order before we can move towards visa liberalisation. finally, i am very pleased to hear about the successful parliamentary cooperation which is taking place between the parliament of montenegro and the european parliament. i know this is very important – it is part of true political integration – and this is helping to develop institutions in montenegro in a most welcome way. i trust that we can work together towards reinforcing the democratic institutions and administrative capacity of montenegro. i am very glad that we see eye to eye on the future development of montenegro on its road towards the european union. (applause)
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. as a member of the european parliament, i am very pleased to welcome today the agreement to conclude the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and the republic of montenegro. i believe that cooperation between the european union and the republic of montenegro will bring mutual benefits in the future, in particular through the gradually establishing bilateral free trade area. i also welcome the progress made by the republic of montenegro in implementing the commitments imposed on it by the european union. however, i would like to draw your attention briefly to the areas where, in accordance with the recommendations of the european commission, the montenegrin side should continue its efforts if it wishes to move closer to the european union. the main one is that montenegro improves the functioning of the rule of law by reforming the public administration to strengthen institutions at all levels and effectively combat its politicisation. i know and appreciate the legislative efforts made by montenegro in this area, but it is very important that they have more practical implications over time. the montenegrin authorities also need to increase transparency in budgetary control, public funds management and concession procedures. i believe that the implementation by the republic of montenegro of all the european commission recommendations will enable the country to enter the future on the straight path towards accession quickly.
member of the commission. mr president, i shall be brief, because i understand we are under pressure of time. i just wish to make three or four points. firstly, this is a problem that affects the whole population and this is the message we try to convey. it is no longer a question of risk groups and that the rest of us need not worry: it is an issue for the general population – young people, women. we must raise awareness about this, and the political message has to go through as well. in particular – because it was mentioned – on the issue of immigrants we take a particular approach. the portuguese presidency had the issues of health and immigration as a theme of its presidency, and access to treatment, testing and treatment and healthcare of the immigrants – even undocumented ones – is an important aspect. this is something we are discussing not only for their protection and the human rights aspect of it, which, of course, is a priority, but also for the protection of society as a whole. the issues that were raised, such as the possibility of the exchange of needles for drug-users, promoting condoms, sexual education in schools, the problems in prisons, are all part of our discussions with the member states and the civil society. we have a think-tank where everybody is involved: they have discussions and exchange best practice and experiences. but, of course, within the european union we realise that we do not have the competence: it is the responsibility of the member states to implement these policies. therefore, we raise the profile at a political level, we hold discussions at technical level but, at the end of the day, it the responsibility of the member states to take specific initiatives. on the other issues raised by mr agnoletto, i have taken note with great interest of the issue of trips. i have noted that and also the effect it would have on access to medicine in developing countries and all the other issues he raised concerning dealing with countries outside europe. i will raise them with my colleagues who are responsible for these particular areas and i will inform them of the points raised by the honourable member. finally, when it comes to access to arv within the european union, initially – and then hopefully we can extend it to other areas – we are supporting very actively the initiative of the german presidency after the bremen conference to achieve access to cheap and affordable arv treatment for all patients and those who need it. we already have, if one can call it that, a first success story with bulgaria. but, of course, we will pursue it in the presidency, with the support of the commission, and hopefully once the model is established we can extend this approach outside the european union. we always have this as a target. once again, i should like to thank the members for a very interesting debate and i have taken note of all the issues raised.
member of the commission. mr president, first of all i would like to say that my colleague mr dimas regrets not being able to be here today for this debate but, as you know, he is at the global warming conference and he has to represent the community there. this is a very important issue. we know that heavy storms in the black sea region in november caused a tragic loss of life and property and of course damage to the environment, with an estimated leakage of 1 300 tons of fuel oil and the sinking of ships carrying sulphur. under a bilateral agreement, the commission sent a team of five eu experts, who were joined by representatives of the commission and the un environment programme. the eu experts found ukrainian clear-up operations well underway. locally available technologies and resources were considered sufficient, and ukraine expressed no need for additional emergency equipment. the key results of the mission will be presented to the ukrainian authorities in kiev on 14 december. during that meeting discussions will also focus on further strengthening cooperation with regard to improvements in the monitoring of the environmental quality of the black sea. according to international oil spill statistics, the current oil spill can be considered of medium size and is not expected to be a major environmental disaster. of course, that does not mean that we are not just as concerned, in particular because there is always the possibility of secondary pollution. the density of the environmental pressures, the presence of sensitive species in the strait, the political sensitivity of the area and the risk of further, similar accidents in the future all underline the need to assess the situation in a more comprehensive manner. the european commission is therefore considering follow-up through other instruments such as post-damage assessment missions, so i am looking forward to the debate on this issue.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is very good that we have the opportunity today to debate the disaster that happened a month ago in the black sea, for at least two reasons. the first reason is that the european parliament plays a role of public opinion substitute in relation to many countries, including russia. imagine what would happen to european media if a similar disaster happened in the baltic sea, for example. after all, we would be shown images of the devastation that had befallen the flora and fauna on television all day long. we would be bombarded by experts who would explain to us the ominous effects of such a disaster. meanwhile, the russian media is silent. with great difficulty, i managed to gather a handful of scant information, and mostly from ukrainian sources, so our role, our voice, is extremely important here. the second reason is ours, if i may put it that way, the expanding european consciousness. the awareness that areas that have been little or not recognised, such as the black sea, are an integral part of our continent, not just in a geographical sense, but also in a natural, ecological, economic and cultural sense, that we are all parts of a common whole, and that these parts influence each other. it must increase our sense of responsibility, also for this area. in the name of this responsibility, we have the right to demand that the black sea basin be made much safer than it is today. it is worth noting that disasters on a smaller scale have occurred several times in the recent past. the following considerations are particularly relevant. the first is to monitor the situation in the black sea. and now, barely a month after the disaster, but also much later. the next issue is the desire to see the modernisation of the maritime fleet, especially tankers, finally started in the countries neighbouring the european union. the black sea is turning darker, not because of natural causes, but because of the color of oil. it can become one big oil tank. the european union is also a major player in the world's oil markets. i therefore call for the adoption of a resolution by this house. i would point out that in the draft resolution we call on the council and the commission to cooperate with the non-eu coastal countries. the land border can be closed relatively easily, the water border cannot, we will not build dams, so we are also acting in our own interest.
on behalf of the pse group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are talking about an unusual procedure today, because the european parliament is giving its opinion on the appropriateness of concluding an agreement, a cooperation agreement between an agency of the european union and the council of europe. we have no power to interfere in these agreements, we only define and evaluate how this cooperation should look like. we're just giving our opinion. the council of europe is the oldest european organisation concerned with human rights and the democratisation of life. cooperation with the council of europe, it goes without saying, and the european union, formerly the european communities, has been in existence since the beginning. after all, membership of a country wishing to join the european union is conditional on respect for the values enshrined in the council of europe's statute: respect for the law, the democratization of life and, above all, respect for human rights. it is therefore good that these two institutions, the european communities now the european union and the council of europe, are working together not only by being neighbours in strasbourg, but also by having a common field of action. this agreement that we're talking about today is not a highly original agreement, nor is it new, just as the fundamental rights agency is not something absolutely new. we are aware that the fundamental rights agency replaced the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia in vienna and that this centre had such a cooperation agreement with the council of europe. this 1999 agreement was respected by both parties and has been in force until the centre was replaced by the fundamental rights agency. now, however, as a new eu institution, a new agency, is at stake, a new agreement, a cooperation agreement with the council of europe, is needed to ensure that these two seemingly similar institutions do not compete with each other but cooperate with each other. i have to say, the deal was negotiated quickly, but well. there are no major objections because we can't have any objections to the content. it provides a framework for cooperation, provides for regular contacts and, i would like to stress this point, also has a personal dimension, since the agreement provides for the appointment by the council of europe of an independent person who will sit with his deputy on the agency's management board and executive board. all of which leads me to give my full support to this proposal for the acceptance of a treaty that will serve both institutions well.
madam president! the european union agency for fundamental rights in vienna is another expensive institution that also usurps the right to monitor and advise member states, inter alia, on compliance with the charter of fundamental rights. it is hard to resist the impression that european taxpayers' money is being used for another agenda to strengthen the brussels authorities and the emerging european state. the council of europe and the osce are already existing institutions that deal with the same issues at the international level, not the supranational level. this duplicates existing institutions, extending the powers of the european union and the eu bureaucracy. european countries, including my country, poland, should act to protect and promote human rights, including by respecting the european convention on human rights. however, the fundamental rights agency, along with other agencies that are being created at an impressive rate, is not only a waste of money, but also another dubious, even harmful project of brussels.
member of the commission. madam president, the proposed instrument on maintenance obligations seeks to improve the precarious situation of people who depend on maintenance to meet their everyday needs. in the european union, where people are increasingly mobile, maintenance creditors – especially children – should not face obstacles to recover money due to them, particularly when the debtor, such as a parent, leaves or has moved abroad. i would like to thank ms grabowska, as rapporteur, for the efforts she has made to give a voice to stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations assisting maintenance creditors during the very important public hearing on 11 september. we generally welcome ms grabowska’s report, which supports the proposal in its essential elements. i have just a few remarks on some proposed amendments. first of all, on the legal basis. we are of the opinion that the current instrument relates to family law. however, i understand parliament’s concerns, given the existing legal context. that is why we have invited the council, in a communication adopted at the same time as the proposed regulation, to decide – in accordance with article 67(2) of the treaty – that the present instrument be adopted according to the codecision procedure. that is my opinion, and i will continue to ask council to act on this invitation. concerning the other amendments on the rules on applicable law. last month, negotiations on a worldwide convention on maintenance obligations were finalised successfully at the hague conference on private international law. given the satisfactory results of the convention and the accompanying protocol on applicable law, the community and its member states would like to adhere to those international rules. consequently, the rules of the regulation and related amendments proposed should be revised in order to ensure consistency with the international rules. the report proposes allowing the courts to apply their own law when cases come before them and when this would accelerate the resolution of the dispute. while we recognise the concern to speed up litigation, we believe that the proposed solution does not allow for sufficient legal certainty, and there is the danger that it would not serve the interest of maintenance creditors, who should be protected by application of the same substantive law, regardless of which court is considering the case. finally, parliament is now voting on its report. an international legal context has become clear. i strongly hope this project will be resumed at full speed in 2008. i very much trust that the council will give it the highest priority in the coming months.
the rapporteur. madam president! i'll start with a thank you. i would like to thank the european commission very much for the 24 hours of cooperation at the working level. i would like to thank the libe committee and the shadow rapporteurs, and above all the juri committee, the legal affairs committee and the rapporteur, mrs wallis, for their really excellent cooperation and for the fact that they also took on a great deal of the burden of convincing the commission of the proposals to change the legal basis. i shall begin with the legal basis, perhaps, because the fact is that we have received this regulation for adoption under a procedure which parliament could not accept. we wanted to propose a codecision procedure, not a consultation procedure. i am therefore pleased to hear the commissioner say that he is aware of the proposal to the council to open up this way of doing things. i would add one thing to what the commissioner said. the fact that the maintenance relationship is derived from family law, i don't question that. i think that it is mixed in its entirety, because the fact that it begins in family law does not mean that it continues in family law. its consequences are linked to the common market, to the economic situation, to the economic situation of both parties: of who is a maintenance debtor and of who is a creditor. we can therefore separate the maintenance relationship from family law and link the maintenance payments not to family law, which is really a matter for the member states, but to what parliament feels it is competent to do, namely the common market, care for the family, human rights, and then i think there should be no problem for this change in procedure to take place. i therefore believe that this proposal merits not only consideration but also acceptance by the council. we actually did, in preparing this regulation, have a hearing that was basically one big wall of tears. mostly women spoke about the difficulty they face in enforcing child support for children whose other parent is outside their country and who does not seem to be very interested in raising or putting up with the child. there are many tricks, and i'm not going to list them here, i'm just going to talk about one situation. all you have to do is change the letter in your name to die in europe and be almost untraceable, and then the child support obligation is gone. with this regulation, we would like to ensure that no debtor in europe, no debtor in alimony, feels safe, that he does not think that leaving his country, where he has a child who is not dependent on alimony, that he does not think that leaving in an open european union, with internal borders abolished, especially now that new countries are joining the schengen system in a few days, that this situation works in favour of those who do not take responsibility for their family. i would like to mention two aspects of the regulation which i consider to be the most important, two changes which are new, namely that a maintenance judgment given in the state where the person entitled is normally located will not have to be confirmed in the state where the maintenance debtor is present. the regulation proposes to abolish the "execution of maintenance". i know it's new, but if we want to ensure the effectiveness of the enforcement of maintenance, we have to decide. if we stop enforcement, then the whole initiative of more efficient enforcement of alimony is simply unattainable. i am aware that we will respect all the agreements reached in the framework of the hague convention and conference, but the international system is developing very slowly, it takes a long time, the ratification of agreements on private international law sometimes takes years. the union must move forward, must give children security when fathers or mothers have forgotten them. i therefore believe that this regulation needs to be implemented quickly for the sake of children. it not only protects the children but also the debtor. i therefore thank the portuguese presidency for the work it has put into its preparation and i place it in the hands of the slovenian presidency with full confidence that it will complete the text and that we will have a good regulation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs genowefa grabowska, for her contribution to the draft regulation and report presented today. i'm not surprised by this excellent result, because your professor is one of the most prominent experts in european law in poland. given the fact that the number of divorces and separations is increasing in the european union, the problem of legal obstacles to the recognition and enforcement of maintenance decisions is becoming more and more important. moreover, the degree of integration of the member states and the continuing high number of sources of law in force in the european union make it necessary to implement an advanced legal system. at present there is no harmonised system at european union level in this area, and i am therefore in favour of adopting the draft as it relates to this problem. it is also worth noting that it is the result of a long-term plan of action, the so-called hague programme, to enhance freedom, security and justice in the european union. i agree that more effective enforcement of these claims will improve the living and educational conditions of many children who are primarily maintenance creditors. this is very important for european socialists. the proposed regulation not only addresses the problems of modern society but can also contribute to improving the functioning of the internal market, in particular by taking into account the aspect of removing obstacles to the free movement of persons which could be affected by differences in the member states' legislation on the enforcement of maintenance obligations. for the sake of all european union citizens, we must strive for the swift and, if possible, free recovery of maintenance claims. currently, the competent institutions sometimes have to resort to radical measures to force the payment of alimony, and creditors quite often live in poor conditions. i also support the idea that a judgment should have the same effect as it has in the member state in which it was given, without any additional formalities. it is also necessary to emphasise the need for greater involvement of the european parliament in the decision-making process on matters of such importance for the future functioning of the european union and the internal market.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, the increasing number of divorces, combined with the increased mobility of eu citizens, is inevitably leading to an increasing number of cross-border child support disputes. at present, in order to enforce a claim against a so-called maintenance debtor residing in another member state, it is necessary to refer the matter to the courts of the state in which the judgment is to be enforced. unfortunately, this solution is often ineffective and it has become clear that there is a real need to establish specific rules on the jurisdiction of the court in matters relating to maintenance. the draft regulation aims to reduce the formal requirements for judicial decisions to be issued and enforced in each member state and to ensure effective enforcement. the new regulation, once it has entered into force, is intended to enable the person entitled to obtain an enforceable title valid throughout the european union, while simplifying and harmonising the system of enforcement. i welcome the action taken at the hague conference on private international law, but i fully agree with the rapporteur that the regulations in this area in the european union should be more advanced and, moreover, implemented more quickly. increasing mobility of citizens is leading to an increase in the number of international marriages where the spouses have different nationalities, live in different countries or live in a member state of which they are not both nationals. when an international couple decides to divorce, different legal provisions can therefore be invoked. the wide scope of the regulation is reflected in the alarmingly low level of maintenance payments in some eu countries - in my own country, poland, for example, only 10%. the draft law provides, inter alia, for the introduction of a right of the mother of a child born out of wedlock to have the father of the child pay the costs of pregnancy and childbirth and the costs of maintaining the mother during childbirth. currently, in many member states, this claim often does not qualify as a maintenance claim, which makes it much more difficult to pursue. before my country joined the european union, the courts handled over a thousand applications for maintenance claims abroad each year. as a consequence of the opening of the borders, all the forecasts predict a drastic increase in these claims, also in other countries. open borders and open labor markets may even cause some fathers to run away from child support. the children will suffer the most. we can't agree to that.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will be very brief, but i thank all those who have spoken, the rapporteur, the other honourable members who have collaborated in this work. i believe that in the coming months we will have three objectives before us, which i hope the slovenian presidency will be able to carry out successfully. the first: the council must be convinced that if we support the usefulness of an amendment to article 67 of the treaty on a legal basis, we are doing so to give a stronger democratic basis to an initiative which objectively protects vulnerable groups of people, particularly children, following the breakdown of the family unit. the second objective is to ensure that the protection afforded to the creditor, irrespective of where the court is seised of a case, is similar: it would be very strange if the lex fori test led to a variation in the substantial protection of the creditor. so trying to harmonize the rules is another essential objective. the third objective, which i think we need to work on, is the actual implementation: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this does not work for maintenance obligations, because if it does, the provision will be void of meaning. we have made some rather innovative proposals: the temporary freezing of a part of the debtor's bank account if the debtor does not want to pay, or a periodic enforcement obligation on the assets, in respect of the amount that the debtor must pay. as you know, the member states in the council, by a large majority, have shown dissent and opposition, because this is the real part that makes a difference in a rule: either the order is enforceable, or there is no point in continuing to stress the importance of protecting the child or the separated spouse who is a maintenance creditor! we must work on these three issues in the coming months and clearly, in this case, certainly more than in others, there is complete agreement between the commission and parliament, we must persuade the council that this is the right way forward.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report drawn up on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development by mr friedricha-wilhelma graefe zu baringdorf on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 21/2004 as regards the date of introduction of electronic identification of ovine and caprine animals (com ((2007) 0710 - c6-0448/2007 - 2007/0244 (cns)) (a6-0501/2007).
member of the commission. mr president, i will be very brief, as it is late. i would like to remind the honourable members that what we are discussing today is the date of introduction of the system. a decision was correctly taken to put the system in place, but the date was left open, or rather a date was fixed which, it was decided, we should subsequently amend or confirm. the data from a number of member states showed two things. first of all that implementation was feasible, both technically and economically – as is stated in the report – and also that more time was needed for the member states to introduce the system, meaning that a more realistic date was needed. the truth is that the commission did propose to have this date set at a later stage. i can assure you there was no intention to circumvent parliament, and that is precisely why we chose this way of proceeding – having this debate, and not inserting an article in the regulation, which would have allowed us to take a decision with the council alone. there was never any intention on the part of the commission not to include or involve parliament in these decisions. the setting of a date was considered to be a technical question. since the principle had already been adopted, we thought that this technical question could be adopted through comitology and, to repeat what i said earlier, we have no problem in accepting the amendment setting a specific date, which i believe allows member states enough time – two years – to prepare. however, we would be reluctant to agree to voluntary systems, since the regulation concerns traceability, and traceability has to be effective and applied equally in the member states. it is also a specific reflection of the animal health situation in the european union. one can look at the direct cost of the system as it appears, but, if you take the longer-term benefits of the savings generated by the reduction in losses and animal diseases, we believe it will eventually be of benefit from the economic point of view. nevertheless, we are ready to accept the amendment by parliament, which we believe will also be adopted by the council next week.
the vote will be taken by mr friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf with a formal request.
it wasn't a formal request, but would the commissioner like to answer that question?
member of the commission. mr president, as i said, we have a problem accepting amendments that will affect the main principles and aspects of the regulation. we will look at it again but, nevertheless, this is a concern.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2007. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. commissioner mandelson, like a british gentleman, wants to play chess, but his opponent, his chinese partner, actually wants to play a completely different game, with completely different rules. we can of course talk about monitoring, about controlling imports from china, but let's not forget about something called re-export. re-export, which is that china is sending things to countries like africa, and then they come back to us as african products, but they're actually products from chinese factories there or they're actually made in china. i would like to highlight what has been under-reported here, the issue of the artificial devaluation of chinese money. this, of course, makes it easier to export to europe. this is a serious threat.
on behalf of the uen group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in taking part in the debate on the economic and trade relations between the european union and korea, on behalf of the uen group, i would like to draw attention to the following points. if korea had signed a free trade agreement with the efta, sean and the united states, rather than with the european union, the competitiveness of european companies benefiting from duty-free access to the korean market would be reduced. this would therefore have a negative impact on the level of economic growth and employment in the union countries. secondly, according to analyses by independent research centres, the conclusion of a free trade agreement will result in two thirds of the benefits of the agreement being received by korea and only one third by the european union. it is therefore necessary that, in addition to this agreement, korea concludes an agreement with the union in which it commits itself to respecting european social standards, in particular the basic elements of decent work, as well as environmental and consumer protection standards. thirdly, this approach offers an opportunity to bring about fair competition between korean and european companies. only in this case will korean companies include in their cost of production the total labour, environmental and consumer protection costs and thus their product prices will reflect the full cost of production.
mr. chairman, please! korea is one of the world's leading economies, but it also has the highest income disparity among oecd countries. korea is the union's fourth largest trading partner outside europe, and the union was the largest foreign investor in korea in 2006. the main problem in our bilateral trade relations is the difficulty of access to the market through non-tariff barriers, including the lack of accepted international norms and standards. the fta with korea should take into account the protection of foreign investment, competition policy, transparency of public procurement and trade facilitation. but it must also be borne in mind that this agreement may have a negative impact on the european automotive industry, and therefore the commission must consider carefully the strategy of gradually eliminating the union's import duties. first, non-tariff barriers on the korean side should be removed, so that it does not appear that the only beneficiary of this cooperation is korea alone.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction, jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments, and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations (com (2005) 0649 c6-0079/2006 2005/0259 cns)). ms genowefa grabowska rightly considers that there is currently no common, harmonised system for the recognition and enforcement of maintenance decisions at european union level. i support the initiative of fast and free maintenance claims, especially in the context of cross-border movement of people. the report rightly emphasises the need to implement such measures so that a judgment has the same effect as it has in the member state in which it was given, without any additional formalities.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! we are against racism, xenophobia and political extremism. however, recent practice in the european parliament, where these concepts are abused in the current political struggle, thus threatening the freedom of expression, as was clearly demonstrated by the events in the chamber on 12 december, suggests that the supporters of the charter of fundamental rights, which also unreasonably prohibits discrimination against 'all political views', violated the principles they proclaimed at the time. the lack of a precise definition of political extremism and xenophobia in the resolution to combat extremism leads us to abstain from voting on this matter.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i am a staunch opponent of racism, xenophobia and political extremism. i believe, however, that the documents adopted under the banner of the european parliament should clearly define terms such as political extremism or xenophobia. otherwise, it may serve the opposite purpose, and become a field for abuse in the public activities of politicians, by stifling freedom of speech and expression. an example of such selective treatment of these concepts was the situation that arose in strasbourg in the european parliament's plenary chamber on 12 december last. for example, how can one of the articles of the charter of fundamental rights, which states that 'any discrimination on grounds of (...) political or any other opinion is prohibited', forcefully take the paper 'referendum' from the hands of members of parliament? it was, however, a peaceful expression of opinion by some of the members. in this context, i abstained from voting on the resolution on combating the rise of extremism in europe.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i am voting in favour of the report by mr christian ehller on deposit guarantee schemes. the rapporteur has presented a very good report in which he points out that the increasing integration of markets is posing new challenges to guarantee schemes which need to be addressed in order to safeguard the stability of the financial market. deposit guarantee schemes are a very important part of the financial market system of the european union and their functioning needs to be continuously improved. the rapporteur rightly draws attention to the problem of crisis management and the protection of crossborder deposits through crisis management. i agree that crisis management must be based on improved early risk detection, agreed and planned engagement of all stakeholders and clarification of the timing of burden sharing. this should take into account the differences in systems and the diversity of public and private stakeholders.
in writing. mr. chairman, please! i vote in favour of the report by mr martin on economic and trade relations with korea. the rapporteur has produced a very good report, in which he recalls how economically important a trading partner of the european union korea is. the conclusion of a free trade agreement with korea is part of a strategy for europe's global dimension. the korea-eu free trade agreement can provide a basis for promoting high social and environmental standards and serve as a model for other agreements currently under negotiation. i agree that every effort should be made to ensure that the european union and korea - either in the framework of the trade agreement currently being negotiated or by way of a separate agreement - commit themselves to human rights.
the author, madam president! i would like to say that i am very concerned about the intensification of the fighting in chad, but also about the lack of progress in finding a political solution to the conflict. i would therefore like to draw particular attention to the role of eufor chad/car. the european initiative, which is also supported by the un, is primarily aimed at ensuring security in the humanitarian zone. given the long-running crisis in darfur and the way it is destabilising the region, it is worth mentioning here that the conflict has already crossed the borders of chad and the central african republic. i think it is essential that the neutral forces of the member states be deployed as soon as possible. i would like to stress, however, that the success of the peace mission depends to a large extent on the political efforts that must be made to ensure the success of the peace process.
the author, madam president! referring again to the october 2006 incident, while taking into account the lack of legal protection for women in saudi arabia, but above all based on facts that once again prove the expressions of social condemnation for the voice of rape victims trying to provoke a public debate on the subject. i call on the saudi authorities to immediately stop this practice. madam president, i would like to stress that the european union should not remain silent when there is a scandalous violation of the rights and personal freedoms of women in third countries. a state whose duty is to protect its citizens cannot go so far as to violate the rule of law under the pretext of safeguarding the independence of the judiciary, as happened in the case of the katif woman. i therefore call on the saudi government to step up its efforts to respect the basic rights of women.
the author. madam president! saudi arabia is a country where the law is enforced by wahhabi principles, the most radical sunni branch of islam. political, social and religious freedom is severely restricted, and flogging, amputation of arms and legs, and the death penalty are all routine. in a country that human rights watch calls a "human rights wasteland", women are the first to suffer from multiple forms of discrimination in their private and public lives. it was not until 2001 that the women's identities were formally recognised by issuing photo ids. previously, they used a family id card with a picture of the husband or father. even though they can afford a car, they're not allowed to drive it. they can study, but the male lecturer is on video. they're denied the right to vote, and divorce and child custody are the sole responsibility of the man. women are frequently the victims of unjust and degrading court decisions. the qatif girl case is a case of a 19-year-old gang rape victim who was sentenced to 200 lashes and six months in prison for being alone with a stranger at the time of her abduction. despite being a signatory, saudi arabia does not comply with its obligations under the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. the authorities must first remove restrictions on women's freedom of movement and take steps to progressively increase women's participation in political decision-making on an equal footing with men. women must have universal access to employment at all levels of government and to all public functions. furthermore, a total ban on the use of whipping and other humiliating corporal punishments should be demanded, as this constitutes a violation of international law and the un convention against torture, to which saudi arabia is a party.
the author, madam president! when we talk about crimes and when we think about the crimes of the 20th century, we think primarily of german crimes and bolshevik crimes, or rather, more broadly, communist crimes. in europe, we are less aware that in the far east, japan committed enormous crimes from the 1930s until the end of the war. among these crimes, one of the most serious was the sexual abuse of women during this time. about 100,000 women from conquered countries in the far east were forced into sexual slavery by the japanese imperial army. this sexual slavery, criminal in its own right, had even more consequences. the consequences were forced abortions, many mutilations, murders and many suicides of these women. of course, today, the women who are still alive are older and elderly. admittedly, the japanese government did much to compensate women for the terrible injuries they suffered during the postwar period. today, this resolution calls on the japanese government to make a final political, moral and financial settlement with these women who are still alive and with the families of those who are no longer alive. they really deserve it.
the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the number of companies that have been granted the aid. - madam president! - i have to go. today's debate is about the human rights violations that occurred in the 1930s and during the japanese occupation, where young women in the imperial military were sexually abused and forced into prostitution, despite the japanese government signing international conventions to combat the trafficking of women and children and supporting the un resolution on women, peace and security. the japanese prime minister's genuine regret is currently being questioned by japanese officials because the asian women's fund ended its program and mandate in march 2007, with only monetary compensation being paid to women. in supporting the resolution and the need for redress, we point out that the line between the norm and the pathology is blurred today too, which is in clear contradiction with moral norms, and therefore there is a need to radically combat prostitution as a form of modern slavery. prostitutes are not only victims of wars 50 years ago, but women are also exploited today, as in the belgian congo, as reported in the press, as well as in many other countries, even rich ones. in the name of respect for the human person, we should also expose the spread of a hedonistic and commercial culture that encourages sexual abuse, drawing even very young women and girls into prostitution and other forms of depravity. respect for the identity and dignity of women does not only consist in exposing crimes or abuses of sexual discrimination or other injustices, but above all in developing programmes and implementing principles covering all areas of women's lives, which should be based on a renewed awareness of the dignity of women as wives, mothers, carers or workers, as human beings, as equal to men, although not the same.
mr. chairman, please! on 13 december, the leaders of the european union countries signed the treaty of lisbon, which was renamed the european constitution. unfortunately, the signatories didn't know what they were signing, they didn't know because there is no consolidated version. the treaty has a piece of reference to some other document, and there again references. it's deliberately so complicated that no one can figure out what's inside. it concludes with 25 pages of explanations showing in three columns the relationship between the numbering of the articles of the old treaty, the provisional numbering in the lisbon treaty and the numbering that will be after the consolidated version is completed - total chaos. portugal, are you not ashamed to call such an unfinished document the treaty of lisbon? portugal, are you not ashamed to accept in such a humiliating way the schedule imposed by the german presidency as part of unification? portugal, are you not ashamed of deceiving the europeans by offering them to accept what they do not want, which they would surely reject in referendums, which they have already rejected? portugal, shame on you!
mr. chairman, please! i would first like to express my appreciation to the portuguese presidency and to mr josé sócrates for having led to the signing of the treaty of lisbon. this is a great achievement for europe, a very important, historic moment after years of deep crisis in the european union. at the same time, all eu member states must ratify the treaty by the end of the year. it will not be easy. we are witnessing the cynical use of the instruments of direct democracy against european democracy. i do not hesitate to say that those who today are cynical about the institution of the referendum are not doing so in good faith. we saw this last week in strasbourg, when all kinds of extremists on the european political scene raised the slogan of a referendum, which is in itself something of value, against the european treaty, and really against the european system of liberal democracy. mr. chairman, i also wanted to say something very personal today. 25 years ago in eastern europe we raised the slogan of a europe without borders against dictatorships in our countries. today, this week, europe is indeed becoming a continent without borders, the european union in a symbolic, technical and organisational sense. this is a great moment for the societies of the european union.
